Essential Recycling, 
Sustainable 
Products, 
Successful 
Communities

FISCAL 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

FISCAL 2021 ESG ACHIEVEMENTS

ENVIRONMENTAL
  Achieved 100 percent net carbon-free electricity use.
  Recycled more than 4.74 million metric tons  

of metals.

  Named to 2021 CDP A List for Water Security.

SOCIAL
  Achieved safest year on record.
  Launched 6 Employee Resource Groups.
  Conducted more than 38,500 hours of employee 

training & development.

  Certified as a Great Place to Work®.
  Recorded more than 900 hours of paid volunteer 

time off.

GOVERNANCE
  Demonstrated Board diversity through  

50 percent gender balance.

  Named one of the 2021 World’s Most  

Ethical Companies®.

  Recognized by Newsweek as one of America’s Most 

Responsible Companies of 2021.

  Named by S&P Global as a 2021 Sustainability 

Yearbook Member and an Industry Mover.

  Winner of S&P Global Platts 2021 Global  

Metals Awards Industry Leadership Award — Scrap 

& Recycling.

About This Report
This is Schnitzer’s eighth Sustainability Report. It covers the 2021 fiscal year, which concluded on August 31, 2021, and details 
our progress on relevant environmental, social, and governance (ESG) metrics and key performance indicators across the 
Company’s operations and product and service offerings.

At Schnitzer we operate at the intersection 

of metals recovery, reuse, recycling, and 

manufacturing. Galvanized by a commitment  

to taking actions that sustain future generations, 

our people work responsibly to provide 

products and services that our customers and 
communities trust — as we have since 1906. 

Together, we are recycling today for a 

sustainable tomorrow. 

  2  Our Company

18  Measuring Our Impact

32  Designing Our Sustainable Future 

46   Powering Our People & Cultivating 

Strong Communities

78  Appendix

1

S&P GLOBAL PLATTSGLOBAL METALS AWARDS2021 WINNER2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
I am especially pleased to report that fiscal 2021 was 

with local food banks, our employees provided hunger 

the safest year in our Company’s 116-year history. 

We achieved our best safety performance results 

in both Total Case Incident Rates and Lost Time 

relief services through our biannual Food Bank Fund 

Drives. These partnerships directly support our 

sustainability goal to contribute meaningfully to the 

Incident Rates. This achievement is a testament to 

development of our local communities.

A Message from 
Schnitzer Steel 
Chairman and CEO, 
TAMARA 
LUNDGREN

Sustainability is at the core of what we do and how we 
operate at Schnitzer, and has been since our founding 

in 1906. As one of North America’s largest metal 

recyclers, our story is marked by the essential role we 

play in the national and global economy. The material 

we recover and recycle represents an increasingly 

critical feedstock for industries and infrastructure 

that need high-quality, low-carbon metal solutions to 

support the transition to a sustainable future.

As I look back over the past year I am reminded of 

our shared commitment to People, Planet, and Profit. 

This framework is the foundation of our sustainability 

strategy, and continues to deliver meaningful impact 

to all our stakeholders.

Our fiscal 2021 Sustainability Report showcases 

our team’s commitment to safety training, hazard 

awareness, and continuous improvement. In the 

face of continued disruptions presented by the 

COVID-19 pandemic, I am proud to report that 

93 percent of our facilities did not experience a 

lost time injury. We continue to make meaningful 

progress in identifying and addressing potential 

risks before they result in injuries. While we still 

have work to do, the entire Schnitzer organization’s 

dedication to creating a safe work environment 

and a sustainable safety culture is reflected in our 

continued progress and these results.

At Schnitzer we believe employee engagement 

initiatives focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, 

volunteerism, and employee health and wellness 

contribute to our operational excellence, the 

achievement of strategic goals, and the growth 

and development of our workforce. In fiscal 2021 

our Company joined a distinguished group of 

organizations that value employee trust, respect, 

pride, and camaraderie when we achieved certification 

as a Great Place to Work®. This report details the 

contributions of our network of Employee Resource 

Groups (ERGs), which provide employees platforms 

from which to create community, celebrate diversity, 

the many ways we delivered on this commitment 

and build a sense of belonging at Schnitzer. In 

by providing quality recycled metals, affordable 

recovered auto parts, and low-carbon finished steel 

products across our operations. In fiscal 2021 we 

delivered our best operating results in a decade, an 

addition, you will find information in this report about 

employee health and wellness programs and services 

offered at Schnitzer, which have served as vital tools 

over the past year to support both physical and 

achievement that would not have been possible 

emotional health.

without our employees, from our frontline workers 

to those working remotely, all living our core values 

of safety, sustainability, and integrity. Our success is 

the direct result of how they have embraced these 

values. Their performance reflects the collaboration, 

innovation, and resilience that define our culture and 

our Company. I’m very proud of what our team has 

accomplished during these most challenging times.

In fiscal 2021 our volunteer and community 

engagement programs addressed two key issues that 

illustrate Schnitzer’s connection to the communities 

where we operate: promoting opportunity for 

youth and supporting essential services. Through a 

partnership with the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, 

our local teams offered support to young people in 

our communities. Through longstanding relationships 

2

In fiscal 2021 we delivered our best 
operating results in a decade. This is 
an achievement that would not have 
been possible without our employees, 
from our frontline workers to those 
working remotely, all living our core 
values of safety, sustainability, and 
integrity. Our success is the direct 
result of their having embraced these 
values. Their performance reflects 
the collaboration, innovation, and 
resilience that define our culture and 
our Company. I’m very proud of what 
our team has accomplished during 
these most challenging times.”

–  Tamara L. Lundgren 

Chairman and CEO

Safeguarding the environment is one of the primary 

performance indicators we measure and include 

in this report, and I am proud to relay significant 

progress toward our goals of reducing absolute 

greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and 

achieving 100 percent net carbon-free electricity. 

Our strategic investments and local energy 

partnerships facilitated this success and continue 

to reinforce our role as responsible neighbors and 

environmental stewards.

Our team delivered outstanding financial results in 

fiscal 2021, reflecting the benefits from the execution 

of our multi-year productivity initiatives and the 

implementation of our One Schnitzer operating 

model. Increased operational efficiencies achieved 

through technological upgrades and innovations 

drove recovery of more materials to meet the growing 

demand for products made using recycled metals. 

Higher sales volumes and strong working capital 

management led to our highest profitability since 

fiscal 2012. 

The achievements around People, Planet, and Profit 

reflect the agility of our workforce, the strength of our 

culture, and the resiliency of our platform. Our team 

has demonstrated once again why Schnitzer continues 

to be a leader in the recycling industry.

On behalf of our Board of Directors, shareholders, 

and employees, I invite you to read our Fiscal 2021 

Sustainability Report, which shares more about our 

sustainability performance and goals and our efforts 

to position our Company for continued success in the 

years ahead.

Tamara L. Lundgren 

Chairman and CEO

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANY 
 
ABOUT  
SCHNITZER

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. is one of the largest manufacturers and exporters of recycled metal products 

in North America with operating facilities located in 23 states, Puerto Rico, and Western Canada. Schnitzer has 

seven deep water export facilities located on both the East and West Coasts and in Hawaii and Puerto Rico. 

The Company’s integrated operating platform also includes 50 stores which sell serviceable used auto parts 

from salvaged vehicles, receive more than 4.3 million annual retail visits, and recycle 338 thousand end-of-life 

vehicles. The Company’s steel manufacturing operations produce finished steel products including rebar, wire 

rod, and other specialty products. The Company began operations in 1906 in Portland, Oregon.

4.74M+ 

METRIC TONS 
Recycled Metals Annually

4.3M+ 

Customers Annually

3,100+ 

Schnitzer Team Members

OUR IMPACT
Schnitzer facilities acquire, process,  
and recycle more than 4.4 million 
long tons of ferrous metals and  
593 million pounds of nonferrous 
metals, dismantle and recycle more 
than 338 thousand end-of-life 
vehicles, and produce more than  
448 thousand short tons of finished 
steel products annually.

OUR SERVICES
We serve more than 4.3 million 
business-to-consumer retail 
customers annually, selling more 
than 4.4 million reusable auto parts 
including tires, rims, batteries, and 
vehicle accessories. In addition, we 
offer customized business-to-business 
solutions for recycling metals, pallets, 
cardboard, and plastics.

OUR PEOPLE
Schnitzer’s diverse and dynamic team 
of more than 3,100 individuals includes 
frontline workers, mechanics, material 
sorters, equipment operators, and 
local experts including operations and 
logistics professionals and auto parts 
dismantlers. Our people contribute 
expertise and talent across a wide 
range of skillsets.

OUR VALUE CHAIN

In fiscal 2021 we generated $2.76B  in revenue from our operations at 96 facilities in
23 states, Puerto Rico, and Western Canada.

METALS
RECYCLING 
PROCESS

A

Company

TM

4

5

*Facility count includes most recent acquisition of metals 
recycling facilities located in KY, MS, and TN in Q1 of fiscal 2022.

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANY 
 
OUR MISSION

AT SCHNITZER WE OPERATE AT THE INTERSECTION 
OF METALS RECOVERY, REUSE, RECYCLING, AND 
MANUFACTURING. Galvanized by a commitment to taking action 
to sustain future generations, our people work responsibly to provide 

products and services our customers and communities trust—as we 

have since 1906.

OUR PURPOSE

RECYCLING TODAY  
FOR A SUSTAINABLE 
TOMORROW

OUR CORE VALUES

Schnitzer’s commitment to our core values of Safety, Sustainability, and Integrity remains strong. We work 

to create a more sustainable future by collecting, processing, and reusing metal, sparing natural resources 

and landfill space, and supplying critical feedstock to industries across the globe. Together, we leverage our 

collective strengths to deliver high-value products and services while forging trusted partnerships with 

our customers, suppliers, and communities.

SAFETY 
Safety Is Our Responsibility 

SUSTAINABILITY 
Sustainability Is Our Business.

INTEGRITY 
Integrity Is About Respect.

and Our Priority.

At Schnitzer we are dedicated to 
creating a safe work environment 
and a sustainable safety culture. We 
emphasize employee engagement and 
continue to make meaningful progress 
in identifying and addressing potential 
risks before they result in injuries.

As one of North America’s largest 
manufacturers and exporters of 
recycled metals, Schnitzer works every 
day to help ensure a future with less 
waste, less used natural resources, 
and cleaner air and water. We turn the 
old into new, enable the obsolete to 
find new purpose, and in the process 
strengthen our partnerships and forge 
stronger communities.

We hold ourselves to the highest 
standards of ethical behavior. We 
treat everyone with respect and 
expect the same in return. We 
challenge ourselves to incorporate 
integrity into every aspect of our 
operations, working with honesty  
and treating one another fairly.

Our safety culture is 
always improving, not 
just by reinforcing 
safe behaviors, but by 
establishing an ongoing 
expectation of mutual 
accountability and a 
commitment to looking 
out for one another.”  
–  Suresh Rajapakse,  

VP Environmental, Health 

and Safety 

Every Schnitzer 
employee has a 
meaningful impact 
on our sustainability 
performance. By 
putting our core value 
of Sustainability into 
action every day, 
we all help achieve 
our ambitious 
sustainability goals.”  
–  Brian Lewallen,  

Chief Sustainability Officer

At Schnitzer we stand 
for operating every 
day with integrity. 
Making sure every 
employee understands 
this, and understands 
what our values mean, 
is essential to our 
success.”  
–  Callie Pappas, Chief Ethics 

and Compliance Officer

6

7

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANY 
A Message from 
Schnitzer Steel CSO, 
BRIAN LEWALLEN

At Schnitzer every employee has a meaningful 

impact on our sustainability performance. Our fiscal 

2021 Sustainability Report tells the story of our 

For example, we are positioned to help achieve 

SDG 12, Responsible Consumption and Production, 

as by virtue of our business model we actively 

people working toward our shared sustainability 

the energy we use to produce sustainable steel, our 

continuous improvement in employee engagement 

create reductions in both waste accumulation 

goals and putting our core values into action. The 

business is positioned to make vital contributions  

and management practices.

past year’s progress reflected here underscores 

and meet the demands of the low-carbon economy  

our collective commitment to making the most of 

of the future.

Expanding on our sustainability objectives, this year 

we have set a new goal to obtain the International 

operational opportunities and persevering amid 

unprecedented challenges.

We conducted a robust materiality assessment 

Organization for Standardization (ISO) certification 

during fiscal 2021 to once again identify key issues 

for the Company’s Environmental Management 

Schnitzer’s sustainability endeavors continue 

and guide our sustainability strategy, reporting, 

System in fiscal 2022 and to incorporate 100 percent of 

to advance in the face of growing external ESG 

and goal setting in alignment with the ESG 

our facilities by 2025. We are also proceeding toward 

expectations. Far from a static process immune 

topics most relevant to our Company. Previously 

achieving net zero GHG emissions by the end of 

to market or political changes, our sustainability 

completed in 2018, the updated assessment affirmed 

fiscal 2050, with an initial interim goal of reducing 

objectives and priorities remain in alignment with 

our top priorities, including but not limited to 

Scope 1 GHG emissions from our recycling operations 

the ESG landscape to meet evolving demands set 

employee safety, environmental management, and 

by 25 percent by end of fiscal 2025 using a fiscal 

within the metals recycling, auto parts recovery, and 

talent recruitment and retention. We continue to 

2019 base year. These goals align with Schnitzer’s 

steel manufacturing industries. We are continuously 

renew our efforts to discover new and innovative 

commitment to continuous improvement in limiting 

and resource consumption. SDG 12 is particularly 

relevant for us, as it is about doing more and better 

with less. It is a global framework for increasing 

resource efficiency and establishing production 

patterns that allow economic growth without 

furthering environmental degradation. It supports 

our Company’s and other organizations’ efforts 

to adopt sustainable practices and promote 

sustainable development worldwide by 2030. 

Throughout this report there are many examples 

of key actions and initiatives underway toward 

Schnitzer’s continued progress in alignment with 

this and several other UN SDGs.

measuring progress across the triple bottom line 

approaches to drive further progress along these 

our environmental impact, while at the same time 

I am encouraged and motivated by the many positive 

(People, Planet, & Profit), achieving our goals, and 

critical priorities.

protecting and supporting our communities.

impacts and achievements of this year. Through the 

setting ambitious new targets to drive progress for 

our business and our stakeholders.

This year we achieved our goal of 100 percent net 

This year’s Sustainability Report details, for the first 

carbon-free electricity use at our facilities ahead of 

time, the direct alignment between Schnitzer activity 

National and global business initiatives and 

our original 2022 schedule. We also made significant 

and the United Nations Sustainability Development 

conversations around ESG increasingly emphasize 

progress in achieving our goal of reducing greenhouse 

Goals (UN SDGs). These global priorities, set in 2015, 

the urgency of reducing carbon emissions and 

gas (GHG) emissions from recycling operations by 

employing strategic measures to offset the impacts 

25 percent by the end of fiscal 2025 by reducing 

offer a framework to track sustainability progress 

and foster shared accountability in pursuit of real 

of climate change. Schnitzer’s integrated operations 

GHG emissions from metal shredding processes by 

solutions to the societal challenges we face.

continued engagement and support of our valued 

employees, we are ready to take on the challenges 

together in the years to come.

Brian Lewallen 

provide a foundation for success within these 

25 percent. These successes were made possible in 

parameters. From the way we source, process, recover, 

large part due to significant capital investment in 

and transport recycled materials and vehicles to 

industry-leading control technologies, as well as 

The UN SDGs also establish a common vocabulary 

Chief Sustainability Officer

for describing and accelerating our progress within 

the context of the global business community.  

8

9

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANY 
SUSTAINABILITY 
PRINCIPLES 
Improving our sustainability 

performance requires an 

ongoing commitment from every 

Schnitzer employee. We bring 

this commitment to work each 

day through our core values, 

and provide tangible direction 

through actionable Sustainability 

Principles that connect 

employees to the triple bottom 

line—People, Planet, and Profit.

SUSTAINABILITY  
GOVERNANCE,  
STRATEGY,  
PRINCIPLES

SCHNITZER’S CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
Sustainability is integrated into Schnitzer’s corporate 

governance and organizational structure, and we 

measure progress across a range of metrics to ensure 

continuous improvement.

Our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) reports 

directly to our CEO and provides regular updates to 

our Board of Directors, all of whom offer guidance 

on sustainability strategy and execution. The 

CSO analyzes, builds consensus for, and manages 

sustainability-related initiatives, projects, and goals 

that are supported by executive-level leadership 

and remain visible throughout the organization.

Additional direction comes from Schnitzer’s 

Sustainability Leadership Group, a cross-

functional team spanning business lines, 

geographic regions, and job functions. The 

members of this group engage leaders 

throughout the business and collaborate 

on the development and deployment of 

sustainable and socially responsible  

business practices, mobilizing our 

workforce to apply environmental  

and social considerations to  

operational decisions.

10

Schnitzer Sustainability Principles ask employees  

to put the Core Value of Sustainability into action by 

executing the following strategies:

1

Continuous Improvement 
We continuously explore and pursue practices that promote 
sustainable operations.

The journey to becoming a more sustainable company has 
no endpoint. We put the Continuous Improvement principle 
into action when we:

•  Identify new opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas 

emissions and improve air quality.

•  Define opportunities for storm, waste, and process water 

recycling, reuse, or recovery.

•  Establish ways to improve metal feedstock quality to 
promote responsible material management practices.

•  Develop new processes and controls to improve the safety 

of our workplace environment. 

2

Technology & Innovation  
We celebrate the benefits of sustainable technologies  
and innovation.

Sustainable technologies and innovation protect the 
environment and advance our ability to provide resilient 
products and resources to the communities where we 
operate. We put the Technology & Innovation principle into 
action when we:

•  Implement new technologies such as advanced metals 

recovery systems.

•  Construct environmental control systems to benefit local 

community air and water quality.

• Deploy equipment to significantly reduce GHG emissions.
• Adapt to a changing metals stream.

3

Working with Purpose 
We are committed to positively impacting our communities 
and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace culture 
that actively supports our employees, customers, suppliers, 
investors, and communities. 

We put the Working with Purpose principle into action  
when we:

• Prioritize our employees’ health and well-being.
•  Promote a workplace culture where everyone is treated 

with respect and fairness and given equal opportunity to 
reach their full career potential.

• Work to address unconscious biases.
•  Positively impact communities through volunteerism and 

charitable giving. 

4

Eliminate Waste
We create sustainable value through safety improvement  
and operational efficiency.

Waste can be defined as wasted time or diminished 
productivity, as well as wasted materials sent to landfills that 
could otherwise be recycled. We put the Eliminate Waste 
principle into action when we:

• Improve safety performance.
• Increase operational efficiency.
•  Invest in technologies and services that allow us to send 

less material to landfill.

• Participate in office and facility recycling and reuse efforts.

11

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANY 
UNITED NATIONS 
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 

In 2015 the United Nations (UN) introduced 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to provide targets 

In fiscal 2021 we conducted a materiality assessment to identify the issues that matter most to our business 

and indicators for broad global sustainability achievement. UN SDGs call on the global community to apply 

and our stakeholders. Having most recently performed a similar assessment in 2018, these results establish 

innovation and capital to mobilize efforts around a common set of targets. 

the updated material topics and priorities for our sustainability strategy going forward, and inform the way 

Schnitzer sustainability goals have aligned with relevant UN SDGs over the past six years, but in fiscal 2021 

we set goals and report on our sustainability achievements.

we made the decision to formally update our reporting to account for this alignment and provide a more 

Updates from the 2018 assessment largely represent changes in nomenclature and an evolving understanding 

detailed mapping of SDGs specific to our business, values, and material issues. From here, we plan to advance 

of societal and environmental impact. As an example, emphasis on energy consumption and reduction has 

Schnitzer sustainability goals in tandem with UN SDGs based on the issues of greatest significance to our 

transformed into a focus on the ultimate effect: climate change.

future commitments, investments, and initiatives.

UN SDGs aligned directly with Schnitzer Sustainability Goals: 

The materiality assessment identified Schnitzer’s top issues and priorities as:

The SDGs offer a framework for refining our priorities and fostering shared accountability with the global 

business community in contributing real solutions to the societal challenges we face. SDGs also provide a 

common vocabulary for describing and accelerating our progress.

These global goals lay out a common purpose and set of priorities across all dimensions of sustainable 

development and assist in the creation of more effective partnerships with governments and civil society 

organizations, as well as other companies large and small.

  Environmental 
Management

  Carbon Neutrality
  Air Quality
  Local 

Environmental 

Impacts

  Employee Safety
  Talent Recruitment 

  Recycled Metals & 
Recycling Services

& Retention
  Training & 

Development

  Local Community 
Relations & Trust

  Technological 
Innovation

  Material Quality
  Circular Economy

  Climate Change 
Management

  Ethics
  ESG Governance
  Customer 

Satisfaction

T
N
E
M
N
O
R

I

V
N
E

L
A

I

C
O
S

T
C
U
D
O
R
P

E
C
N
A
N
R
E
V
O
G

12

13

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANYPEOPLE

SAFETY

Goal

•  Achieve a 1.00 total case incident rate (TCIR) by end of 

fiscal 2025.

Fiscal 2021 Highlight

•  Achieved Total Case Incident Rate of 1.71, a 10% 

improvement over the prior year, making fiscal 2021  
the safest year in our Company’s 116-year history. 

VOLUNTEERISM & COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

Goal

Fiscal 2021 Highlight

•  Donate at least 10,000 hours of paid volunteer time off 

(VTO) by end of fiscal 2025.

•  Our employees logged and donated 913 volunteer 
hours in fiscal 2021 (1,011 hours cumulative since 
January 2020 when VTO benefits became active).

WELLNESS

Goals

•  Achieve a 25% employee participation rate in our 
physical and mental wellness programs by end of  
fiscal 2025.

•  Achieve a 70% employee participation rate in our 

retirement benefits program by end of fiscal 2028 to 
promote the financial wellness of our workforce.

Fiscal 2021 Highlights

•  Launched a new digital wellness initiative to better 

support work-life balance.

•  Achieved 45% employee participation in our retirement 
benefits program, a 29% improvement over our fiscal 
2019 base year.

PLANET

OPERATIONS

Goals

Fiscal 2021 Highlights

•  Maintain 100% net carbon-free electricity use every year.

•  Achieved 100% net carbon-free electricity use for the first 

•  Achieve net zero GHG emissions for all operations by 

time in our Company’s history.

end of fiscal 2050. 

•  Achieved a 19% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions as 

compared to our fiscal 2019 base year.

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

Goals

Fiscal 2021 Highlight

•  Deploy an ISO 14001:2015 certified Environmental 
Management System (EMS) by end of fiscal 2022.

•  Incorporate 100% of Company facilities within our ISO 

14001 certified EMS by end of fiscal 2025.

•  Implemented an EMS in advance of ISO 14001:2015 

certification.

PROFIT

Goal

•  Achieve a profitability improvement target of $15/ton, 

over our fiscal 2019 base year, using sustainability-based 
initiatives by end of fiscal 2023.

Fiscal 2021 Highlight

•  Achieved best financial performance in a decade, driven 
by strong global demand for recycled metals, progress 
on our multi-year strategic volume growth goals, and 
higher productivity.

15

OUR 
SUSTAINABILITY 
GOALS

PROGRESS & NEXT STEPS
Our sustainability goals align directly with the issues that matter most to our stakeholders, 

as defined through the results of our 2021 materiality assessment. First established in fiscal 

2019, these goals are embedded in Schnitzer’s long-term business strategy.

In fiscal 2021 we achieved industry-leading milestones and have set new goals that  

will continue to positively impact our employees, the customers we serve, and the 

communities in which we operate.

14

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.OUR COMPANYSCHNITZER’S 
SUSTAINABILITY 
ROADMAP

2025

●  Achieve a 1.00 TCIR.

●  Support communities with 
at least 10,000 hours of VTO. 

●  Achieve a 25% employee 
participation rate in our 
wellness program.

●  Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions from recycling 
operations by 25%.

●  Maintain 100% net carbon-

free electricity use.

●  Incorporate 100% of facilities 
within our ISO 14001 certified 
EMS.

2023

●  Achieve operating income of 
$8/ton from new advanced 
metal recovery technology 
and $7/ton from ferrous 
volume growth to 5.3 million 
tons.

●  Maintain 100% net  

carbon-free electricity use.

2021-22

●  Deploy an enterprise-wide 
ISO 14001 certified EMS.

●  Maintain 100% net  

carbon-free electricity use.

WE ARE  
HERE

2019 
(base year)

2050

●  Achieve net zero GHG 

emissions for all operations 
(steel manufacturing, 
metals recycling and auto 
dismantling).

●  Maintain 100% net  

carbon-free electricity use.

2028

●  Achieve a 70% employee 

participation rate in 
our retirement benefits 
program. 

●  Maintain 100% net  

carbon-free electricity use.

✔

✔

NET ZERO BY 2050 
ACTION PLAN
Reduce Scope 1 process  
GHG emissions via: 
•  Advanced emissions control 

technologies.

Reduce Scope 1 fuel and natural 
gas GHG emissions via: 
• Fuel conservation best practices. 
•  Switching to alternative fuels  

as available.

•  Use of all-electric equipment  

as available.

✔

Reduce Scope 2 grid-electricity 
GHG emissions via: 
•  Electricity conservation best 

practices.

•  Advanced energy storage systems.

✔

Reduce Scope 3 emissions via: 
• Supply chain engagement. 
• Industry partnerships. 
•  Other information sharing and  

goal alignment.

PEOPLE

PLANET

PROFIT

17

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR COMPANYAchieving operational 
excellence is the result of 
continuous improvement 
that only comes from 
unrelenting effort.”

–  Michael Henderson,  

President, Operations

Measuring 
Our Impact

At Schnitzer we are in the business 

recyclable metal is a resource to be 

of sustainability, as we operate at 

reintroduced into the supply chain 

the intersection of metals recovery, 

again and again, creating long-

reuse, recycling, and manufacturing. 

term environmental, social, and 

What we do, who we serve, and why 

financial value for our employees, 

it matters are all defined by this 

communities, and stakeholders 

shared purpose. 

By transforming used metals into 

feedstock for the production of new 

materials, Schnitzer’s operations 

provide critical environmental 

benefits to metal-intensive 

alike. Instead of extracting virgin 

ore from the earth, Schnitzer’s 

products and services reduce the 

need to mine finite resources while 

keeping valuable materials out  

of the landfill. 

industries like construction, 

In many ways, our impact is 

telecommunications, energy, and 

measured by the resources we keep 

transportation. Our products and 

in the ground, emissions we avoid, 

services illustrate the notion that 

and valuable materials we recover.

18

19

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWHAT WE DO:
Metals Recycling 

As one of North America’s largest metals recyclers, 

Schnitzer facilities acquire, process, and recycle 

millions of long tons of ferrous metals and hundreds 

of millions of pounds of nonferrous metals every 

single year. 

These recycled metals represent critical feedstock 

in the global economy, supporting production of 

bridges, buildings, cars, public transit and passenger 

rail systems, and appliances, as well as more metal-

intensive technologies, such as wind turbines, 

hydropower dams, advanced battery storage 

systems, upgraded electricity lines and electric 

vehicle charging stations, new broadband and 

reliable high-speed internet technology, and  

data centers.

Recycled metals are used to build critical 

infrastructure and produce essential technologies 

that provide meaningful environmental benefits 

including greenhouse gas emissions reduction, 

decreased air pollution, energy conservation, and 

water savings, as well as decreased materials sent 

to landfill. As the global community advances 

decarbonization strategies, the demand for 

recycled metals continues to grow.

BREAKING DOWN SCHNITZER’S RECYCLED METALS STREAM

FERROUS METALS

Ferrous metals enter our facilities initially as car bodies, 
appliances, and unused materials from manufacturing 
plants. After a rigorous intake process, these products 
run through our high-powered metal shredders. Once 
shredded, we extract valuable ferrous metals from 
the material, eventually transporting material grades 
to domestic and international mills to be melted and 
processed further. Finished products made from this 
material include rebar and flat products that support  
critical infrastructure projects across the world.

NONFERROUS METALS

Nonferrous metals like aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin, 
titanium, and zinc make up the nearly 593 million pounds 
of materials processed by Schnitzer each year. Nonferrous 
metals arrive at Schnitzer facilities in many different forms. 
Using copper wire and piping as an example, materials 
are processed on-site where nonferrous components 
are extracted. After additional machine sorting and 
chopping, copper is transported to third-party smelters 
and made into new products. Increasingly relevant in 
today’s marketplace, copper, the world’s most conductive 
metal, is used in the construction of electric vehicles—as 
much as four times the amount currently used in internal 
combustion engine vehicles—only reinforcing the growing 
demand for recycled nonferrous metals. 

Ferrous Volumes Sold 
(million long tons)

4.32

3.95

4.40

2019

2020

2021

Nonferrous Volumes Sold 
(million pounds)

667

593

551

2019

2020

2021

20

21

WHAT IS SCRAP?  
Scrap is recyclable material, generally metal, sourced from industrial 

manufacturers, large retailers, landfill operators, and small businesses. 

From vehicle parts and building supplies to surplus materials and 

machinery, metal scrap has monetary value and is classified by grade or 

type, often relating to chemical composition and purity.

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC. 
WHAT WE DO:

Auto Dismantling,  
Parts Recovery, and  
Vehicle Recycling

Our Pick-n-Pull business is an industry-leading chain of auto 

dismantling and self-service retail stores that sell original equipment 

manufacturer (OEM) auto parts to retail and wholesale customers. 

For over 30 years, Pick-n-Pull has offered affordable, quality parts 

for foreign and domestic cars, vans, and light trucks throughout our 

national network of 50 stores. 

PICK-N-PULL EXTRACTS VALUE FROM END-OF-LIFE VEHICLES FOR 
REUSE AND RECYCLING

Vehicle bodies

Windows, mirrors, seats,  
and other useful parts

Tires, headlights,  
and bumpers

Other recyclables  
and leftover items

2021 PICK-N-PULL BY
THE NUMBERS 

338K  

end-of-life 
vehicles purchased

6.7M   

pounds of tires recovered 
and recycled

352K  

metric tons of end-of-life 
vehicles dismantled  
and recycled

Gasoline and  
diesel fuels, motor  
oil, and coolants

Mercury switches

Batteries

Refrigerant gas, 
hydraulic fluids, 
and washer fluids

7.7M  

pounds of batteries 
recovered and recycled

18K  

mercury switches 
recovered and recycled

Catalytic  
converters

Transmissions, wires, 
alternators, pumps, 
and other mechanical 
components

1M 

gallons of engine oils and 
hydraulic fluids recovered  
and recycled

1.7M   

gallons of gasoline and  
diesel fuels recovered  
and recycled

223K 

gallons of coolants and  
washer fluids recovered  
and recycled

22

23

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.MEASURING OUR IMPACT 
 
 
FOLLOW THE JOURNEY 
OF A VEHICLE AT OUR 
OPERATIONS

1

Arrival of vehicle

Vehicles at Pick-n-Pull locations are 
inspected upon arrival.

3

Customer opportunities for reuse 
Vehicles are organized in self-service 
yards for customers to pick, pull, and 
purchase vehicle parts. 

2
 Removal and processing of 
problematic materials

Fluids, batteries, mercury switches, 
and other potentially hazardous 
materials are removed from the 
vehicle. These materials are processed 
by third-party partners for responsible 
reclamation, recovery, incineration, or 
landfill disposal. 

4

5

Preparing vehicles for  
materials recovery

After vehicle parts are sold, 
the remaining auto bodies are 
crushed and transported to one of 
Schnitzer’s metals recycling facilities 
or other metals recycling locations 
in North America. 

Vehicle recycling process

Vehicle bodies undergo a 
shredding and sorting process 
where ferrous and nonferrous 
metals are recovered and sold to 
manufacturing operations. These 
materials are processed at steel 
mills and smelters around the  
world to make new products. 

24

25

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.MEASURING OUR IMPACT 
 
WHAT WE DO:
Steel Manufacturing 

SUPPLYING LOW-CARBON STEEL TO BUILD HIGH-
VALUE INFRASTRUCTURE AROUND THE WORLD  
At our state-of-the-art electric arc furnace (EAF) steel mill, we  

melt and shape recycled metal into steel products, including rebar, 

coiled rebar, wire rod, merchant bar, and other specialty items. 

These materials are used in numerous applications in construction 

by manufacturers, such as reinforcing concrete in highways, 

supporting bridges, and providing feedstock for new building 

development, to name just a few. 

Our steel manufacturing operation, Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, 

leverages Schnitzer’s integrated business model by sourcing much 

of its metal feedstock from our own recycling facilities. We power 

this facility using primarily carbon-free hydroelectricity, greatly 

reducing the environmental impact of our operation and the 

overall carbon content of our finished steel products. 

Located in McMinnville, Oregon, Cascade Steel’s finished products are 

sold to customers primarily located in the western U.S. and Canada. 

Finished Steel Product 
Volumes Sold

8
7
4

M
8
6
3
$

5
0
5

M
7
3
3
$

8
8
4

M
9
7
3
$

2019

2020

2021

●  Steel Revenues (millions)  
●   Finished Steel Products Sold 

(thousand short tons)

We sell finished steel
products to customers
located in the Western  
United States and Western 
Canada. Customers in  
California accounted for 
52%, 55%, and 54%
of our steel revenues in
fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019,
respectively.

WHAT IS AN 
ELECTRIC ARC 
FURNACE? 

Electric arc furnaces (EAFs) use 

high-voltage electric currents 

to melt recycled ferrous scrap 

metal, the primary raw material 

feedstock. EAFs produce 

significantly less GHG emissions 

than basic oxygen furnace (BOF) 

steelmaking, which uses a mix of 

virgin iron ore, recycled metal, 

coal, and limestone as the raw 

material feedstock.

Our steel mill and EAF are 

powered by 96 percent renewable 

energy sources, making our 

steel products some of the most 

sustainable on the market.

26

CO2e Emissions Intensity  
(mtCO2e/mt)

1.89

0.19

● WSA’s 2020 Industry Avg*  
● Our Steel Mill’s 2020 Total**

Energy Intensity  
(gj/mt)

95%

recycled content in 
finished product

87%

steel dust recycled

DOMESTIC STEEL CAPACITY 
As 21st century technologies continue to become more metal-

intensive, a strong domestic steel industry is critical to U.S. 

national and economic security. Steel plays an important role 

20.62

in supporting critical infrastructure and strengthening the 

competitiveness of many domestic manufacturing industries. By 

leveraging EAF technology, Schnitzer’s sustainable steel products 

are already delivering on the expected demand in the steel 

marketplace, as countries around the world seek low- or zero-

carbon products and services.

LEVERAGING VALUABLE BYPRODUCTS FROM 
STEEL MANUFACTURING 
Our steel manufacturing operations also produce three valuable  

byproducts: steel dust, mill scale, and slag. 

Steel dust is separated, analyzed, and often sold to recyclers  

that recover zinc from the material, thereby reducing virgin  

zinc mining and production. Similarly mill scale is reused, as it 

offers valuable opportunities to offset virgin iron ore mining  

and production.

Slag typically represents the highest-volume byproduct from 

the steel manufacturing process and contains a mixture of 

silica, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, and iron oxide residuals 

from the fluxes used during the smelting process. For every 

metric ton of steel produced in an EAF, 0.17 metric tons of slag 

is generated. Steel slag is a valuable commodity sold for reuse by 

cement companies to substitute for lime. It can also be used in road 

construction to replace natural aggregates, in agriculture as a 

fertilizer, or as coastal marine blocks.

4.25

● WSA’s 2020 Industry Avg*  
● Our Steel Mill’s 2020 Total**

* Industry averages sourced from the World Steel 
Association indicators 2020 data.

** Energy intensity includes all energy and fuel sources 
consumed. GHG intensity includes all Scope 1 and 2  
emissions, and estimated Scope 3 emissions from 
“upstream” scrap metal recycling and sourcing 
operations to our steel mill.

LOW-CARBON 
STEELMAKING

In 2020 Schnitzer upgraded the 

carbon injection system at our 

steel mill to allow for more precise 

carbon input amounts when 

melting recycled ferrous metal. 

This increased precision results 

in lower emissions and less waste 

generated during this process.

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.MEASURING OUR IMPACT 
  
  
   
PROVIDING 
RECYCLING 
SOLUTIONS

WHO WE SERVE

OUR CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS 
Our people work responsibly to provide the products and 

services our customers and suppliers trust. 

Our Reverse Logistics teams 

Our Pick-n-Pull stores, for example, serve individuals like car 

purchase materials from 

industrial and commercial 

enthusiasts, mechanics, and those seeking low-cost replacement 

auto parts, as well as businesses such as autobody shops and 

customers to provide additional 

core auto parts manufacturers. 

feedstock for our metals recycling 

facilities. We also offer recycling 

solutions for nonmetal materials 

like pallets, Styrofoam™, 

cardboard, and plastic to improve 

operational efficiencies and 

deliver environmental benefits 

to multinational retailers across 

various industries. 

Schnitzer’s metals recycling operations serve global construction, 

automotive, and power industries, while purchasing supplemental 

materials from recyclers and retailers to add feedstock at 

our processing facilities. Our ability to acquire, sort, and sell 

metals entering the marketplace through the reverse supply 

chain is grounded in our knowledge of recyclable materials, 

metal commodities, salvage vehicles, and automotive parts and 

cores. This expertise has allowed us to develop and leverage 

longstanding relationships with suppliers and customers across the 

After performing on-site 

globe to meet the growing demand for recycled metal products 

assessments and audits at a 

and tailored recycling solutions.

business location, we determine 

available recyclable materials and 

offer solutions that add value, 

improve logistics, and optimize 

operations and processing. Our 

services turn difficult-to-manage 

materials into operational and 

financial assets. 

4.3M+

retail customer visits to Pick-n-Pull stores annually.

14K+

commercial and industrial suppliers and customers of 
recycled metal products and services.

At Schnitzer responsible operations reflect an 
unwavering emphasis on safety, a continuous 
search for technological innovation, and a focus 
on efficiency.”

– John Hebert, Chief of Operations

Our steel manufacturing operation accepts material from 

Schnitzer metal recycling facilities, and serves primarily domestic 

customers, including steel service centers, steel fabricators, 

contractors, and building developers. 

Finished products deliver the recycled content and reclamation 

performance needed to support green building projects, significantly 

contributing to LEED certification and other local government 

sustainable building code and certification requirements. 

OUR COMMUNITIES 
Our communities are important stakeholders. We work 

responsibly to limit our environmental impacts and improve the 

communities where we work and live. Along the way, we create 

sustainable and local jobs; support community organizations, 

start-ups, and small and large businesses; and develop innovative 

solutions that create long-term environmental, social, and financial 

value in our communities.

Pick-n-Pull’s End-of-Life 
Vehicle Purchase Volumes 
(thousands)

386

338

316

2019

2020

2021

29

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMEASURING OUR IMPACTWHY IT MATTERS

Our Company’s and the recycling industry’s extensive history in 

USING

the United States provide important context for the sustained 

value of metals recycling and steel manufacturing. The use 

of recovered, reused, and recycled metals is foundational to 

the production of sustainable metal products. Investments 

to support UN SDGs for clean energy, clean water, green 

transportation, and industrial infrastructure will all increase 

the use of recycled metals.

TRANSITIONING TO A LOW-CARBON FUTURE 
Global carbon reduction efforts are a powerful structural driver 

of demand for recycled metals and will lead the way to the 

1 TON 
OF RECYCLED 
METALS

VERSUS 1 TON OF 
CORRESPONDING 
VIRGIN MATERIAL IN THE 
MANUFACTURING PROCESS 
RESULTS IN UP TO:

decarbonization of the new economy. A low-carbon economy 

STEEL

and many low-carbon technologies are widely acknowledged 

to be more metal-intensive. The use of recycled metals is now 

an important strategic solution for companies, industries, 

and governments that are focused on carbon reduction. It is a 

competitive differentiator for metal producers and fabricators, 

and it is a critical part of every community’s commitment 

to supporting the circular economy and reducing material 

going to landfills. The material we recover and recycle directly 

supports the transition to a sustainable future.

COPPER

ALUMINUM

58% 
LESS  
CO2e  
emissions*

65% 
LESS  
CO2e  
emissions*

92% 
LESS  
CO2e  
emissions*

  In fiscal 2021 Schnitzer’s 4.74 million metric 
tons of ferrous and nonferrous sales volumes 
has helped to avoid approximately 5.19 million 
metric tons of CO2e emissions. ** This is 
equivalent to removing more than 1.1 million 
passenger vehicles driven from U.S. roads for 
an entire year.**

*    CO2e savings are sourced from the 

BIR-commissioned study conducted by 
Imperial College London “Report on the 
Environmental Benefits of Recycling — 2016 
edition, pg. 26”.

**  Equivalent figure is calculated using the 

U.S. EPA’s “Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies 
Calculator”.

CONNECTING OUR BUSINESS TO 
LOCAL AND GLOBAL COMMUNITIES 
Our business activities connect us to both the 

local communities where we operate and the 

global business communities where we deliver our 

products and services. Schnitzer offers recycling 

job opportunities in our local operating markets. Our 

focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion underpins 

our hiring practices, as our workforce reflects the 

communities where we operate. 

Our environmental and community engagement 

practices seek to minimize local impacts and 

accommodate the evolving needs of each 

community. We are actively involved with the 

business and trade associations that reflect the 

industries and communities we serve. 

Our global impact draws a direct connection to 

industries and communities across the world. By 

aligning our sustainability goals with the United 

Nations Sustainable Development Goals, we 

strengthen this connection, with shared priorities  

for a sustainable future.

IN FISCAL 2021 OUR DIRECT AND INDIRECT 
CONTRIBUTIONS* INCLUDED:

$8B+ total economic impact

34K+ jobs supported

$2.2B+ in wages earned

$897M+

in federal, state, and local tax revenue

* Direct and indirect contributions include our own footprint as well 
as estimates for our suppliers and re-spending by employees of 
the U.S. steel industry and U.S. metal recycling industry. Statistics 
are based on our fiscal 2021 sales volumes of finished steel, 
recycled ferrous metals, and recycled nonferrous metals, and data 
sourced from economic impact studies facilitated by the American 
Iron & Steel Institute (AISI) for the U.S. steel industry and the 
Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, Inc. (ISRI) for the U.S. scrap 
recycling industry.

31

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMEASURING OUR IMPACTDesigning  
Our  
Sustainable 
Future

Recycling, recovery, and manufacturing processes that are part of 

Schnitzer’s operations also require energy, water, and other resources to 

function, and involve processes that can affect the local environment.

To responsibly manage and mitigate our environmental impact we 

deploy innovative infrastructure and process controls that reduce 

greenhouse gas emissions and capture and recycle stormwater at our 

sites. We invest in and utilize advanced recycling technologies to recover 

and produce more and higher-quality materials, sending less to landfills.

At Schnitzer we know that the decisions and investments we make in our 

operations today allow us to enhance our ability to responsibly manage 

our environmental impact and deliver value across our supply chain. 

Advancing sustainable business 
practices and further integrating 
sustainability throughout our 
operations have been foundational 
elements of our success.”

–  Richard Peach, Executive Vice President,  

Chief Financial Officer & Chief Strategy Officer

32

33

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSUSTAINABLE 
OPERATIONS START WITH 
SOUND ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT

Our Environmental Management System (EMS) 

  Operational environmental performance 

provides the data we need to make thoughtful 

improvement strategies, including environmental 

business decisions that protect our people, the 

targets, key performance indicators, and periodic 

environment, and the communities where we  

site audits.

work and live. 

  Environmental awareness, engagement and 

In 2021 we developed an EMS with a specific focus on:

training, and engagement strategies for Schnitzer’s 

  Compliance with applicable environmental laws, 

regulations, and industry standards.

   Reducing impacts on the environment through 

resource conservation.

employees, customers, suppliers, and communities.

  Minimizing environmental resource usage by 
reducing energy consumption, water use, air 

emissions, and waste generation.

   Evaluating and implementing technologies and 

operational changes that improve environmental 

performance.

Our EMS formalizes Company 

policies and practices that 

facilitate continued compliance 

with applicable laws, regulations, 

and industry standards concerning 

environmental protection. It also 

provides a uniform approach to 

environmental stewardship and 

operating standards, pushing 

us beyond legal minimum 

requirements to impart a positive 

environmental impact in the 

communities we serve.

An EMS is a set of processes and practices that 

enables an organization to reduce its environmental 

impacts. It integrates processes for training 

employees and allows an organization to monitor, 

analyze, and report environmental performance 

information to internal and external stakeholders.

15,000

hours of EPIP related 
training

ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (EPIP)

We view environmental stewardship as a critical responsibility of 

every employee, and we provide required training resources based 

on their job function.

Environmental stewardship at our facilities requires careful 

planning and training to ensure responsible material management. 

Especially important when handling nonrecyclable materials that 

enter our facilities through end-of-life vehicles, our teams practice 

proper identification, handling, separation, containment, labeling, 

storage, and eventually shipment of liquid and solid, flammable 

and nonflammable, and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Our 

EPIP is a systematic approach that addresses the many types of 

nonrecyclable materials that enter our facilities.

By properly managing the materials collected at our locations, 

we reduce our impact on the local environment and provide a 

pathway for recyclability or responsible disposal. 

35

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDESIGNING OUR SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
 
 
USING WATER RESPONSIBLY & INVESTING IN 
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT 
The increasing frequency of extreme weather events presents 

an opportunity to positively impact water security in the long 

term. As a recognized member of the CDP 2021 A List for Water 

Security, we are committed to using water responsibly and 

prioritizing efficiency and conservation measures to preserve 

this valuable resource.

Water Use Intensity 
(cubic meters/mt)

28.6

Our Water Footprint 
(cubic meters)

0.272

0.238

0.230

,

3
4
9
6
7
1
1

,

,

2
6
2
7
8
2
1

,

,

2
9
4
6
3
2
1

,

2019

2020

2021

●  Absolute (m3)   ●  Intensity (m3/mt)

1.60

● WSA’s 2020 Industry Avg* 
● Our Steel Mill’s 2020 Total

* Industry average sourced from the  
World Steel Association’s 2020 policy 
paper, “Water Management in the  
Steel Industry”.

96%

of our steel mill’s process 
water is recycled.

INVESTING IN STORMWATER MANAGEMENT 
Every year we invest millions of dollars to improve and enhance the physical 

infrastructure of our facilities. Water-related upgrades and modifications may include 

routine maintenance and repair, as well as installation of new stormwater management 

equipment to improve conveyance, storage, treatment, and water recycling and reuse 

capabilities. These investments represent our primary levers for realizing opportunities 

to improve and sustain water security in our communities. 

Since 2016 we have invested more than $57 million in environmental controls that 

allow us to capture and clean stormwater. We’ve completed projects for new stormwater 

treatment systems and conveyance infrastructure at 12 of our Pick-n-Pull locations in 

California, Texas, Oregon, Washington, Missouri, and Kansas. Each treatment system is 

unique to the site, tailored to its geography, property size, and relevant surfaces. 

36

37

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.DESIGNING OUR SUSTAINABLE FUTURE  
RECOVERING 
MORE & 
CREATING 
QUALITY 
MATERIALS 

At Schnitzer we are on a continuous journey to 

recover more metal and recyclables from the 

feedstock we process and improve the metal 

content of the commodities we produce. Our 

strategic investments in advanced metal recovery 

systems, innovative recycling programs for both 

metal and nonmetal materials, and technology 

upgrades to our steel manufacturing process 

illustrate our commitment to maximizing the 

sustainability of our products and services. The 

new technologies encompass advanced copper 

separation, advanced aluminum separation, and 

primary nonferrous recovery. In fiscal 2020 and 

2021 we commissioned five new systems. We expect 

to complete the commissioning of the remaining 

eight systems in fiscal 2022.

ADVANCED METAL RECOVERY 
TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS 
While ferrous metal makes up the overwhelming 

majority of Schnitzer’s recycled metal products 

by weight—more than 93 percent—we are 

implementing advanced separation and processing 

systems to meet the increasing demand for more 

refined grades of recycled nonferrous metal.

93% 

of the nonmetal material that we process 
is beneficially reused as alternative 
daily cover in landfills, supporting the 
conservation of more than 1.8 million 
cubic meters of topsoil.

38

These new technologies improve the recovery  

All together, these strategic investments are 

rate and purity of specific materials like aluminum 

expected to increase Schnitzer’s available product 

and copper. 

In 2021 we completed technology upgrades with 

the objective of enhancing our ability to separate 

shredded metals into furnace-ready commodities 

and recover even more metals from the recyclable 

materials we process. 

line and allow our facilities to extract a greater 

volume of ferrous and nonferrous metal, while 

also reducing material sent to landfills. These 

technology advancements improve our ability to 

competitively market our products to both domestic 

and international customers. The rollout of these 

new technologies is anticipated to be completed in 

Our Advanced Metal Recovery Technology Systems 

fiscal 2022, with total capital expenditures estimated 

are targeted to recover more ferrous and nonferrous 

to be $115 million, of which $77 million has been 

metals found in household appliances and vehicles 

invested, including $36 million during fiscal 2021.

while maintaining stringent safety standards and 

minimizing residual materials sent to landfills. 

Our Advanced Aluminum Separation Technology 

Systems precisely identify and efficiently sort 

various grades of metal in our nonferrous “Zorba” 

product. Our upgraded cable processing systems 

allow us to cut insulated copper wire into small 

pieces and separate copper material from plastic, 

producing both greater volume and a higher-quality 

copper to meet the stringent standards set by our 

downstream smelting customers.

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.DESIGNING OUR SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
 
 
OUR PROGRESS ON SHREDDER EMISSIONS CONTROL SYSTEMS

Since 2016 we have invested more than $56 million to deliver state-of-the-art emissions control systems 

at our shredder facilities. Fiscal 2021 progress and expected fiscal 2022 progress on each of these 

projects is highlighted below:

EVERETT, MA

OAKLAND, CA

TACOMA, WA

RESULT 
System has eliminated approximately 
8,000 mtCO2e since start-up.

UNDER CONSTRUCTION  
System is estimated to eliminate 
more than 7,800 mtCO2e annually.

IN DESIGN 
System is estimated to eliminate 
more than 6,200 mtCO2e annually.

Fully commissioned and operational 
at the end of fiscal 2021.

Upgrades to the existing enclosure 
and particulate matter control system 
are underway. Commissioning 
and initial start-up operations are 
scheduled for fiscal 2022.

Designing full emissions control, 
VOC treatment, and acid gas 
scrubbing systems.

PORTLAND, OR

KAPOLEI, HI

SALINAS, PR

EMISSIONS 
REDUCTION

Over the past five years Schnitzer has taken a leadership 

position within the metals recycling industry with the 

deployment of best available control technologies for air 

Achieved

emissions generated by metal shredding activities. Our 

efforts included extensive source testing, engineering, and 

commissioning state-of the-art control and treatment 

systems, fast-tracking capital investments to capture, treat, 

and eliminate the process emissions from our four major 

shredding facilities.

On our largest throughput shredders, we are installing 

enclosures with regenerative thermal oxidizers to treat 

volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. VOC treatment 

protects local air quality by reducing the potential for 

ground-level ozone formation and significantly decreasing 

greenhouse gas emissions. By enclosing our shredders 

and designing control and treatment systems in a manner 

consistent with U.S. EPA protocols, we are able to capture 

more than 95 percent of the emissions produced during the 

shredding process.

96%

reduction in process emissions 
from first system installed,  
compared to fiscal 2019.

IN DESIGN  
System is estimated to eliminate 
more than 3,600 mtCO2e annually.

Designing full emissions control, 
VOC treatment, and acid gas 
scrubbing systems.

IN DESIGN  
Designing an enclosure and 
particulate matter emissions  
control system.

IN EXPLORATION  
Exploring island infrastructure 
resiliency, electricity grid stability, 
and renewable energy technology 
systems to determine project 
feasibility.

Invested more than

$56M

since 2016 in emissions 
reduction and air quality 
control technology 
equipment.

40

41

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.DESIGNING OUR SUSTAINABLE FUTUREFUEL ECONOMY OF OUR TRANSPORTATION  
FLEET & EQUIPMENT  
Our efforts to reduce emissions extend beyond our processing 

activities to include combustion emissions associated with fuel 

consumption at our operations. In an effort to improve fuel 

efficiency of equipment, we have invested more than $79 million 

since 2016 to upgrade frontline equipment, such as our material 

handlers, loaders, dump trucks, and forklifts. 

Accounting for roughly one quarter of our total energy footprint, 

reducing equipment fuel use represents an exciting opportunity 

for improvement across our operations. Switching to low-carbon 

fuel alternatives, including electrification of both on- and off-road 

assets, is essential to achieving our emissions reduction targets.

ACHIEVING NET CARBON-FREE ELECTRICITY 
In 2021, for the first time in our Company’s history, Schnitzer’s 

aggregate power mix represented sourcing of 100 percent net 

carbon-free electricity.

By investing in and supporting community-focused green  

power purchase programs, we are actively strengthening grid 

stability and resiliency and supporting the use of affordable  

power from renewable, carbon-free, or low-carbon sources  

within our communities.

Moving forward, we are exploring the use of advanced battery 

energy storage systems and similar on-site energy solutions to 

support continued availability of carbon-free energy options. 

PARTNERING WITH LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT TO REDUCE 
EMISSIONS AND IMPROVE  
AIR QUALITY

In 2021 Schnitzer’s Providence, Rhode Island facility, 

in partnership with the Rhode Island Department of 

Environmental Management, was awarded grant funds 

through the U.S. EPA’s Diesel Emissions Reduction Act 

(DERA). The DERA program seeks to protect human health 

and improve air quality by reducing emissions from diesel 

engines. Grant funds administered to Schnitzer through 

this program were used toward the purchase of a high-

efficiency, hybrid materials handler that replaced three 

older, less efficient pieces of equipment. 

Our efforts to upgrade to new 
equipment illustrates Schnitzer’s 
commitment to sustainability. 
In combination with our own 
investments throughout the New 
England area, we have reduced 
the total number of assets in use 
from eleven to just five. Our new 
equipment requires significantly 
less fuel to operate and results in 
emissions reduction that improves 
local air quality.”

–  Michael “Vern” Jones 

Northeast Regional Asset Manager

Our Energy Mix

46%

24%

30%

●  Electricity  ●  Natural Gas  ●  Fuels

Our Power Mix

20%

10%

70%

●  Hydro  ●  Other carbon-free sources* 
●  Nuclear

*  Includes REC purchases and utility 

green tariffs

Our Energy Footprint

0.613

0.640

0.562

,

9
8
9
0
4
1
3

,

,

7
9
2
2
2
0
3

,

,

3
7
0
8
1
9
2

,

FY19

FY21
●  Absolute (gj)   ●  Intensity (gj/mt)

FY20

Our Emissions Footprint

0.035

0.035

2
1
6
9
7
1

,

0.028

4
3
5
5
4
1

,

1
8
6
6
6
1

,

1

FY19

FY20

FY21
●  Scope 1+2 Absolute (mtC02e)    
●  Intensity (mtC02e/mt)

43

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDESIGNING OUR SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
DESIGNING OUR SUSTAI N AB LE   F UT UR E

SUPPORTING 
BART’S EFFORTS 
TO LAUNCH 
A MORE 
SUSTAINABLE 
FLEET 

The Bay Area Rapid Transit 

(BART) system launched a plan to 

decommission more than 600 of its 

oldest train cars, many of which 

have been in use since the early 

1970s. Upon decommissioning, 

these cars will travel to Schnitzer’s 

Oakland, California metals 

recycling facility for dismantling. 

Recycling the 15 tons of steel, 6 tons 

of aluminum, and 1 ton of copper 

from the cars will support future 

infrastructure and transportation 

projects while allowing BART to 

transition to a more sustainable 

fleet, reducing its carbon footprint 

and improving local air quality.

PARTNERSHIPS TO ADDRESS  
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 
Engaging Our Supply Chain
Our suppliers of both goods and services represent an essential 

link in Schnitzer’s value chain. We rely on recycling suppliers to 

sell us end-of-life vehicles, appliances, and other metal materials; 

heavy industrial equipment suppliers for tools we use to 

process metals like shears, cranes, bulldozers, dump trucks, and 

forklifts; and rail companies, ship owners, and port operators to 

transport our recycled materials to mills, smelters, and foundries 

in the U.S. and around the globe. 

At Schnitzer our teams engage extensively with suppliers  

on sustainability topics including environmental footprints, 

climate change risks, responsible working conditions, anti-

corruption, and ethics and compliance.

We also partner with manufacturers and major retailers who 

produce and sell household products to achieve sustainability-

related recycling and waste-reduction goals. 

For example, our Recycling Services team helped one of our 

major retail customers develop a better way to package, 

ship, and recycle expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam. Our 

team utilized our network of portable balers to compress 

the EPS foam into solid blocks, which was then used to make 

insulation and new packaging products. Through this program 

we have processed, repurposed, and diverted from landfills 

89,000 pounds of EPS to date.

MEASURING TO MINIMIZE: REDUCING EMISSIONS 
FROM OVERSEAS SHIPPING EXPORTS 

In quantifying Scope 3 emissions from our overseas shipping activity, Schnitzer engaged with one of our 

bulk cargo vessel exporters to review their Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI). EEOI measures 

operational work efficiency, also known as transport work, calculated as the amount of CO2 emitted per 

one unit of cargo carried for each nautical mile. This voluntary measure, introduced by the International 

Maritime Organization in 2009, is calculated based on a vessel’s operational data and offers a comparison 

between the same ships on the same trade, or between trades. 

Utilizing vessels with lower EEOIs for an appropriate voyage can decrease the carbon footprint of a given 

trip. Additional emissions reductions—as much as 50 percent—can result from minimizing ballast days, or 

the distance a ship travels empty from its previous discharge port to its next load port. 

44

45

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPowering  
Our People  
& Cultivating  
Strong  
Communities

At Schnitzer we put people first. We know that building a sustainable tomorrow requires 

collaboration and communication among our employees and the communities we serve. 

Our sustainable future is rooted in partnership and shared progress.

Cultivating a workplace culture where people feel safe, included, valued, and prepared with 

the tools and resources they need to succeed is a crucial part of our One Schnitzer business 

model. By aligning our environmental, social, and economic impacts with the needs of 

those around us, we foster a workplace focused on operational excellence, safety, and 

commitment to the communities in which we operate.

Achieving diversity, equity, 
and inclusion is a journey, 
not a destination. Our 
workforce was built on 
integrity and continues 
to thrive because we 
maintain a culture of 
respect, fairness, and equal 
opportunity.”

–  Stef Murray,  

Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officer

46

47

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTACHIEVING OUR 
SAFETY GOALS

Our Health & Safety policies and programs ensure:

Adequate supply and proper use of personal 

protective equipment.

Safety is one of our core values, and accordingly our focus is on ensuring everybody 

Training and practice on machine, equipment, truck, 

goes home safe and healthy every day. Our approach is to proactively foster a safety 

and operator safety.

culture, with employee engagement and active leadership, as well as risk and hazard 

identification, management, and, where possible, elimination.

Our teams are dedicated to keeping those who enter our facilities healthy and safe.  

We implement and constantly refine safety systems, and strive for an injury-free 

workplace through proactive and continuous improvements to our processes  

and training. 

Fiscal 2021 was the  
Company’s  
SAFEST YEAR ON 
RECORD.

40 facilities have gone  
RECORDABLE-FREE 
FOR 3 YEARS, since  
fiscal 2019.

74 facilities were  
RECORDABLE-FREE  
in fiscal 2021.

48

Achieve  
zero  
injuries

Avoid serious injuries  
and fatalities

Cultivate personal safety 
leadership

SCHNITZER’S SAFETY 
STRATEGY

Emergency preparedness for potential safety 

incidents and natural disasters.

 Incident and accident management, procedures, and 

protocols.

Appropriate workplace ergonomics in the field,  

in the office, and at home.

 Proper chemical handling, labeling, and storage.

Fire prevention and emergency response.

These policies and programs align with leading 

industry practices and rely on the expertise of  

our health and safety leaders. Our strong safety  

culture is continuously improving, as we constantly 

reinforce safe behaviors and encourage a sense  

of mutual accountability.

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESWe also track safety performance across a variety of 

industry standard metrics, including: 

  Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR).

  Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART).

  Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR). 

  Fatality Rate.

CELEBRATING OUR SAFEST YEAR YET 
Over the past 18 months, additional safety measures due  

to the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic required 

our Health and Safety teams to adapt to an evolving 

situation while continuing to perform normal job tasks. 

Despite these challenging conditions, we are proud to 

celebrate 2021 as the safest year in our Company’s history, 

having recorded a Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) of 1.71, a  

10 percent improvement over 2020, our previous best. 

We attribute this achievement to our efforts over the  

past several years to engage leaders and frontline 

employees to address root causes of safety incidents 

and implement immediate preventative measures to 

eliminate risk of future occurrences.

55 SCHNITZER OPERATIONS 
RECEIVE ISRI CIRCLE OF 
SAFETY EXCELLENCE  
(COSE) AWARDS

Locations across our operation 
received ISRI’s COSE award for 
outstanding commitment to 
employee safety. This award 
recognizes a location’s ability 

to instill core safety values and exhibit 
continuous improvement in safety programs 
and worker incident reduction.

50

Our Total Case Incident Rate* 
(# of incidents per 200K working hours)

2.80

1.91

1.71

2019

2020

2021

Our Days Away, Restricted, or 
Transferred Rate 
(# of incidents per 200K working hours)

2.00

1.43

0.98

2019

2020

2021

Our Lost Time Incident Rate* 
(# of incidents per 200K working hours)

0.76

0.59

0.27

2019

2020

2021

* COVID-19 cases for which contact tracing could not identify 
a source of exposure outside of work are included in OHSA 
reporting in accordance with OHSA reporting requirements using 
a designated special code for the nature of the illness. These 
cases are excluded from the TCIR and LTIR metrics shown above.

SAFE DRIVERS,  
SAFE COMMUNITIES

Our team of more than 200 drivers is 

responsible for safely hauling recycled metals, 

end-of-life vehicles, and finished steel products 

across all parts of the country. Our driver 

safety practices include use of on-vehicle 

cameras in all trucks with machine vision 

and artificial intelligence (MV/AI) triggers to 

identify and signal lane departures, forward 

collisions, following distance, cell phone usage, 

seatbelt usage, distracted driving, speeding, 

harsh cornering, and incomplete stops. Vehicles 

also employ real-time, in-cab alerts that react to 

MV/AI triggers to encourage self-correction. We 

utilize GPS tracking on all trucks and make use 

of electronic logging devices to manage hours  

of service and vehicle inspection reports. 

We promote safety by offering quarterly 

bonuses for safe driving behaviors and requiring 

rigorous training for both new hires and existing 

drivers. Our environmental training programs 

offer best practices around spill response, 

fuel conservation, idling policies to minimize 

associated air emissions, and other related 

regulatory compliance practices.

Safety is more than a priority at 
Schnitzer, it is one of our core 
values. By continuously working 
to improve our programs and 
policies, we ensure that our 
teams operate responsibly in our 
communities and return home 
safely at the end of each day.”

– Melissa Frangiosa, Fleet Safety Director

51

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 
LAUNCHING THE 
SERIOUS INJURY AND 
FATALITY PREVENTION 
PROGRAM 

In 2021 we launched our Serious Injury and 

Fatality (SIF) prevention program, targeting 

LEVERAGING TODAY’S SUCCESS FOR 
FUTURE SAFETY IMPROVEMENT 
When it comes to safety, our work is never truly 

finished. Building a safe work environment requires 

perseverance, attention to detail, and a commitment 

to continuous improvement. 

Our safety success can be credited, in part, to 

nearly 400 managers and supervisors across the 

Layered Safety Observations (LSOs)—a dedicated 

organization. The development of this program 

time for a manager to observe an employee perform 

began in 2020 with the identification of critical 

a work task. After the task is complete, the pair 

workplace risks that pose the greatest threat to 

discusses potential hazards and existing controls. 

employee safety.

The SIF program creates a foundation for 

safe work practices by defining controls for 

Managers may offer constructive feedback, and 

employees share concerns or suggestions for 

process improvement.

each of the critical risks. Site leaders perform 

Through an analysis of our Lost Time Injuries, we 

frequent field-based observations to verify that 

also understand that nearly 54 percent of workplace 

controls are in place and functioning properly. 

injuries are associated with handling, lifting, or 

Gaps or inconsistencies found during these 

other activities that result in muscle strains or 

observations are addressed immediately. Beyond 

overexertion. Enhanced training programs focused on 

reducing individual injuries and fatalities, 

the SIF program promotes a collaborative 

learning environment that supports safety 

improvements throughout the Company. 

exercises to prepare for the workday—have proven 

successful in reducing injuries and incidents.

Our Lost Time-Free Facilities

Our Injury-Free Facilities

84%

86%

93%

67%

70%

55%

We keep safety and environmental 
stewardship at the forefront of 
everything we do at our steel mill. 
We pride ourselves in the quality of 
our products, our customer service, 
and the conscientious and innovative 
individuals who make up our team.”

–  Matt Ruckwardt, Chief of Steel Operations & Business 

Performance Administration

In 2021 routine LSOs and enhanced training 

practices for frontline supervisors contributed to 

our overall safety performance, with 70 percent of 

To reinforce our engagement and training efforts we 

perform daily safety huddles, morning stretch and 

flex exercises, Field-Level Risk Assessments (FLRA), 

and monthly Environmental Health and Safety  

town hall meetings. 

Maintaining a safe work environment also requires 

adopting a holistic view of occupational health—

extending beyond physical health to include 

mental well-being and environmental factors. 

We incorporate daily informal interactions and 

conversations to assess mental work readiness. If 

an employee appears to be in distress or unfit for 

work, we offer a 24-hour medical line to facilitate 

SAFETY IN STEELMAKING

In 2021 we installed and implemented several new 

systems and controls to achieve improved safety 

results at our steel mill.

A remote-control trackmobile system now 

facilitates the daily transportation of nearly 

3,000 tons of material handled at the steel mill, 

reducing the number of employees involved in 

material transportation. 

Additional improvements to walking paths along 

rail lines have reduced risks associated with 

ankle, knee, and other walking-related injuries 

for conductors. The installation of rail crossing 

barriers, an upgrade that allows operators to take 

control of an intersection while moving railcars, 

reduces the risk of train or vehicle collision. 

incorporating proper work techniques—safe lifting, 

our facilities operating without a recordable injury 

twisting motion avoidance, warmup and stretching 

and 93 percent posting no lost time for the year. 

2019

2020

2021

2019

2020

2021

weather, our teams adopt appropriate measures  

risk and improve efficiency across the facility.

52

to accommodate work conditions.

53

engagement with a healthcare professional. When 

Together these technology and process 

employees face specific risks due to extreme 

improvements support our ongoing effort to reduce 

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESEMPLOYEE TRAINING  
& DEVELOPMENT

At Schnitzer we are committed to helping all employees reach their 

full potential, starting with our robust talent acquisition and hiring 

process that prioritizes outreach to a diverse array of candidates. 

Our training and development programs go beyond onboarding 

and individual job task assignments to include programs related 

to occupational health and safety practices, environmental 

management systems, frontline leadership development, business 

ethics and compliance, and diversity, equity, and inclusion.

We utilize live in-person sessions when appropriate, offsite 

workshops, and online interactive modules to facilitate the ongoing 

education of our employees, often bringing teams together to  

hear directly from leadership and share experiences among peers. 

BUSINESS LEARNING &  
AWARENESS PROGRAM

In 2021 we launched our Business Learning 

and Awareness Program to advance efforts to 

communicate the many different facets of our 

business to the larger employee community. 

Program objectives included:

  Providing broad exposure to senior  

leadership teams.

  Highlighting connections between department 

functions and business success.

  Communicating foreseeable business challenges 

across the Company.

  Presenting development opportunities within 

specific departments and business functions to 

employees across the Company.

Through the Business Learning and Awareness 

Program, we hope to promote continued education 

around business objectives and help employees 

  Offering an opportunity to learn about  

develop a strong understanding of roles and 

Company goals and ongoing initiatives within 

responsibilities outside of their immediate scope 

various functional areas.

of work.

38,500 HOURS

of employee training  
and development in 2021.

SUPPORTING OUR WORKFORCE ON A PATH TO SUCCESS 
In 2021 we launched a frontline leader development initiative to address our evolving workplace  

needs. The initiative aimed to strengthen communication fundamentals and provide leadership best 

practices, including: 

1 Building Foundational 

Leadership Skills 
Interaction and 

2 Leading People 

3 Driving Results 

communication essentials, including 
active listening and learning how to 
provide high-impact feedback.

Coaching skills for leaders to 
value diversity and encourage 
collaboration to generate creative 
ideas and effective solutions.

Developing high-performance teams 
that achieve meaningful and measurable 
business goals.

THROUGH THIS PROGRAM, 550 EMPLOYEES ACROSS OUR COMPANY IN LEADERSHIP  
ROLES AT MULTIPLE LEVELS COMPLETED MORE THAN 8,000 COMBINED HOURS OF 
LEADERSHIP TRAINING. 

I look forward to the Business Learning and 

Awareness Program sessions and town halls as they 

are opportunities to learn about other facets of our 

Company’s business. More importantly, I really appreciate 

having regular opportunities to ask questions and get 

answers in real time from members of the executive 

team and senior leadership. These are opportunities I 

wouldn’t be exposed to in my daily work – opportunities 

that have enabled me to find new ways to contribute to 

the continued improvement and positive impacts our 

Company strives for.”

– Nures Kara, Senior Environmental/Project Manager

54

55

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESOUR CORE VALUES  
& CODE OF 
CONDUCT TRAINING 
We believe that success is about 

more than just productivity and 

financial performance; it reflects 

a commitment to operating every 

day in accordance with our core 

values—safety, sustainability, 

and integrity.

Through the annual Our Core 

Values training, we review 

the principles behind our 

Company’s shared purpose and 

responsibilities. We implement 

a new interactive course each 

SCHNITZER CERTIFIED  
AS A GREAT PLACE  
TO WORK®  
In August of 2021, Schnitzer 

was certified as a Great Place to 

Work®, joining a distinguished 

group of companies that value 

employee trust, respect, pride, 

and camaraderie. 

year that additionally highlights 

Great Place to Work® sets the global 

selected topics of particular 

standard for businesses seeking to 

relevance. The course also includes 

measure and improve workplace 

an overview of the Company’s 

culture, employee experience, and 

Code of Conduct. By pairing 

leadership behaviors. 

these topics, we actively reinforce 

our shared accountability. In 2021 

Schnitzer’s Our Core Values course 

was completed by 100 percent of 

our workforce.

100%

of our workforce is 
trained on our Code  
of Conduct.

Schnitzer received this 

certification based on employee 

responses to an anonymous 

Trust Index Survey administered 

by Great Place to Work®. Just 

3 percent of the United States 

civilian workforce are currently 

employed by a Great Place to 

Work Certified™ organization. 

Our Great Place to Work 

Certification is a testament to 

our ongoing commitment to 

enhancing employee experience, 

fostering a workplace culture of 

inclusion, and operating according 

to our core values—safety, 

sustainability, and integrity.

SPOTLIGHT ON LONG-TENURED EMPLOYEES

SJ WILLIAMS

WAYNE GIBSON

In 2021 SJ Williams celebrated  
52 years as a Schnitzer team member, 
earning the status as the longest-
tenured employee in Schnitzer 
history. Throughout his time with 
the Company, SJ has held various 
Operator roles, and is currently 
serving as a Crane Operator at our 
Attalla, Alabama, facility.

Wayne Gibson started at Cascade Steel 
Rolling Mills in 1971. Eight months later, 
he took a position operating a crane in 
the steel mill’s melt shop and has been 
there ever since. Prior to his career with 
Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Wayne served 
in the United States Army for three 
years. He is one of many valued veterans 
in our Schnitzer employee community.

56

57

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESENHANCING EMPLOYEE 
HEALTH & WELLNESS 

Over the past 18 months we have focused 

support and launched training programs to 

on protecting and supporting our employees 

encourage mental health monitoring at work. We 

throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Our teams 

are committed to continually enhancing employee 

worked to find creative ways to bring employees 

benefits to offer support where needed, adjusting to 

together, offering additional connectivity to 

changes across our workforce and society.

Schnitzer’s health and wellness programs.

In an effort to support COVID-19 vaccination 

throughout the Company, we offered transportation 

to and from clinics and vaccination centers and 

provided paid time off for employees to go to 

vaccination appointments for themselves and family 

members during normal working hours. 

We responded to the need for virtual healthcare 

options by providing access to MDLive, a 

telemedicine resource that allows employees to 

meet with a healthcare provider without leaving 

home. Recognizing the need to prioritize mental 

health offerings, we accelerated existing initiatives 

to deliver telehealth services for mental health 

58

COMPREHENSIVE WELLNESS STRATEGY 
We are committed to supporting the health and 

well-being of our employees. Our Wellness strategy 

is built on three pillars: mental, physical, and 

financial wellness. 

To support mental and physical wellness, we are 

expanding the benefit offerings of our Employee 

Assistance Program (EAP) to include webinars and 

podcasts on mental health, virtual health check-

ins, tips for healthy remote work, and flexible work 

schedules. We are also hosting “Wellness Challenge 

Events” to educate our employees on balanced 

I love that digital wellness is not anti-tech, it is healthy-
tech. Benefits I have experienced personally as I dial back 
my screen time include improved connection with others 
as well as myself, getting better sleep, and even getting 
more exercise.” 

– Terri Williams, Marketing Director and Digital Wellness Leader

Our financial wellness program has emphasized 

on digital communication tools has impacted 

increasing employee awareness and understanding 

frontline workers, office-based employees,  

of our retirement and savings plans. Through 

students, community leaders, parents, and 

our 401(k) and Company matching program, we 

educators alike, as we all face new challenges  

are providing benefits to our employees upon 

and adapt to social limitations. 

retirement. In 2022 we are expanding our voluntary 

benefits to offer employees identity theft protection 

and supplemental accident coverage.

WELLNESS IN AN EVER MORE  
DIGITAL ERA 
Work, school, family gatherings, and most social 

interactions over the past year relied heavily on 

To offer employee support, Schnitzer launched 

a digital wellness initiative—an effort to create 

an environment where individuals can share 

information and resources, increase awareness, 

learn from one another, and encourage discussion 

around how technology impacts our lives. 

This initiative seeks to promote and support 

an intentional and healthy relationship with 

technology in the workplace and at home. 

59

nutrition and healthy eating, improved sleep, stress-

digital tools and resources. The transition from 

relief tactics, and relaxation activities. 

regular in-person interactions to a daily reliance  

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESFOSTERING DIVERSITY, 
EQUITY, & INCLUSION

At Schnitzer we believe the more diverse 

To better understand our own employee population 

our employee community is the broader the 

and identify opportunities to enhance inclusivity, 

perspectives and stronger our connections can 

we collect and benchmark diversity data. We are 

be. We know that the best opportunities for 

especially proud of Schnitzer's representation 

innovation are generated by shared information 

of women on our Board of Directors. Four of our 

and ideas.

Fundamental to our success is our ongoing 

commitment to fostering an environment that 

attracts a diverse workforce and cultivates 

eight Directors (50 percent) are female—more than 

twice the Russell 3000 average of 22.6 percent. We 

seek diverse slates of qualified candidates for all 

Company leadership positions.

genuine inclusivity where employees collaborate 

toward a common goal. We strive to attract, 

ENGAGING EMPLOYEES EVERY DAY 
Our Engaging Employees Every Day (3Es) initiative 

motivate, and reward individuals who work with 

increases cultural awareness, inspires employee 

pride and passion, and promote an expectation 

collaboration, and creates an environment where 

of mutual respect and accountability. We support 

open and safe conversations can take place. Town 

fairness and equity, and reject the discrimination 

hall meetings are held at each of our facilities, 

and oppression of any individual or group.

complemented by all-Company virtual “town call” 

MEASURING DIVERSITY, EQUITY, & 
INCLUSION LEADERSHIP 
Our formal Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 

program celebrates employees of all backgrounds. 

We are committed to advancing a safe and 

healthy work environment in which individuals 

are treated equitably and with dignity and 

respect. Accordingly, we have a zero-tolerance 

policy against discrimination and harassment. 

Our employees’ annual training includes the 

strict prohibition of discrimination based on 

race, ethnicity, age, military status, sex, sexual 

orientation, gender identity, and religion.

meetings featuring our Chairman and CEO and other 

members of the senior leadership team. These regular 

meetings offer a dedicated space for employees to 

hear from leadership teams and provide direct and 

candid feedback on workplace experiences.

Based on employee suggestions from 3E programs, 

in 2021 we added new elements to our existing 

Safety, Teamwork, Attitude, Resourcefulness 

(STAR) Award program, which recognizes 

outstanding workplace performance. 

Our Workforce Ethnicity Association vs. Our Industry Averages

47%

53%

Schnitzer 
Workforce 
(U.S. only)

38%

EEO-1 2018 
Industry 
Aggregate

62%

●   Black, Indigenous, and  ●  White or Caucasian   

●   Black, Indigenous, and  ●  White or Caucasian   

People of Color

People of Color

Our Workforce Age Breakdown vs. Our Industry Averages

29%

23%

Schnitzer 
Workforce

25%

34%

Bureau of Labor 
Statistics 2020 
Industry Aggregate

48%

41%

●  under 30 years  ●  30-50 years  ●  over 50 years

●  under 30 years  ●  30-50 years  ●  over 50 years

60

61

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 
 
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS  
Schnitzer’s Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are voluntary, employee-led groups that promote a diverse and 

inclusive workplace aligned with our Company’s purpose, values, and business practices. ERGs are open to all 

employees and aim to build a sense of belonging and deepen the understanding of our shared purpose.

Each ERG maintains an executive sponsor and steering committee to support group administration. Members 

have the option to fill other leadership and administrative positions, and all employees are welcome to participate 

in ERG activities, regardless of membership status. In fiscal 2021 we expanded the number of our ERGs from four 

to six. Approximately 10 percent of our employees are actively enrolled in at least one of our ERGs, and we have 

had approximately 1,000 employees participate in various ERG-sponsored events to date.

PRIDE

  Mission:  

To develop and nurture an inclusive community  

for all gender expressions, support Schnitzer’s 

efforts to diversify staff at all levels, and actively 

work to attract, retain, and motivate LGBTQ+ 

employees and their allies.

Like all Schnitzer’s ERGs, PRIDE seeks to create an 

environment where members feel included, engaged, 

and valued. PRIDE supports and celebrates the 

LGBTQ+ community at work and beyond through a 

mentoring program and internal education efforts 

about issues faced by LGBTQ+ individuals.

Building community through the PRIDE ERG means 

providing an outlet for employees to both voice 

concerns and highlight the contributions of LGBTQ+ 

individuals and their allies. Through quarterly 

virtual meetings open to all employees, the PRIDE 

ERG offers a regular communication channel and 

has successfully engaged employees from across  

the organization.

In 2021 the PRIDE ERG initiated a Gender Identity 

and Pronoun education campaign about using an 

individual’s desired pronoun as a form of mutual 

respect. Additional group efforts included launching 

an education campaign about 

creating and maintaining safe 

spaces—environments where 

all people, regardless of sexual 

orientation and gender identity, 

feel supported and welcome.

BLACK EMPLOYEE NETWORK (BEN)

  Mission:  

To provide an open forum where employees with shared interests can aspire, develop, 

support, and collaborate to reach their highest potential, represent Schnitzer in our 

communities, and serve as a key resource to the Company.

The BEN ERG creates a platform for employees to share perspectives and ideas in pursuit 

of a more equitable and inclusive workplace culture. The group actively builds awareness 

around racial issues and encourages open communication among all Schnitzer employees. 

One of the primary goals of the BEN ERG is educating our workforce on the historic 

and societal challenges faced by our Black colleagues. Schnitzer has taken steps 

toward this goal by creating a formal training program for leaders to promote bias-free 

recruitment practices. Building on this effort, the BEN ERG is developing a mentorship 

program and hosts networking events for BEN members to engage within the broader 

Schnitzer community.

During the month of February, the BEN ERG supported Company efforts to celebrate 

Black History Month, providing content for an employee-focused social media campaign 

and suggestions for educational materials for the entire Schnitzer community.

The BEN ERG also seeks to establish external partnerships to incorporate best practices 

as the group continues to grow and evolve. By forming relationships and expanding 

existing partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), BEN will 

offer internship and employment opportunities to graduates, establishing a pipeline for 

Schnitzer’s talent and recruitment efforts.

62

63

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESTo serve as a strategic partner group within 

grown substantially. 

WOMEN@SCHN

  Mission:  

To engage, empower, develop, and support 

women at Schnitzer.

Women@Schn is dedicated to supporting and

mentoring women in the workplace and in our

communities. The group holds regular events to

advance women personally and professionally by

creating opportunities for mentorship and career

advancement, providing social opportunities for

networking, and establishing a forum for discussing 

women’s workplace issues. The group incorporates 

member feedback by administering frequent surveys 

to find new engagement opportunities for both 

women and men throughout the organization.

In the Speaker Series sessions, Women@Schn also

touched on topics including societal expectations

around women’s responsibilities at home and

at work, and impacts to these expectations as a

result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Whitney Cox,

Schnitzer’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Program

Manager, spoke about challenges that women

encounter in the workplace, and the importance

of acknowledging and openly discussing these

challenges at all levels of the Company as the first

step toward addressing them. Whitney said, “We

have to be resilient and lift each other up.”

VETERANS EMPLOYEE RESOURCE  
GROUP (VERG)

  Mission:  

In 2021 Women@Schn launched a powerful Speaker 

Schnitzer, to promote a sense of belonging  

Series with the theme, “Thriving Through the 

and connection through increased engagement, 

Second Shift,” to highlight the reality that for many 

to attract new talent and facilitate community 

women the workday is not over after completing 

outreach, and to offer opportunities for 

daily workplace responsibilities. Instead, women 

networking and personal and professional 

often begin their “second shift,” caring for children 

development.

and other family members. The group found 

that addressing this topic head-on advanced the 

critical conversation around finding remedies and 

developing relief strategies.

Schnitzer is proud to be a

military-friendly employer and

an organization that honors

and respects the commitment

to service. Through a common

military background, members

often share experiences around team dynamics,

goal setting, and coalition building. The VERG

celebrates member stories and experiences through

guest speaker events—opportunities to hear

directly from veterans and educate others within

the organization about military service and the

transition to civilian life. The unique perspectives

and insights offered during these events are

valuable to our entire organization and serve to

support the members and participants, as well as

extend their reach to others.

HISPANIC EMPLOYEE RESOURCE  
GROUP (HERG)

BUILDING UP INDIVIDUALS’ LIVES DAILY 
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUP (BUILD) 

  Mission:  

  Mission:  

To promote and celebrate cultural awareness 

To build up others. 

in the workplace and to give the Hispanic 

community at Schnitzer a forum to interact 

with one another, open avenues of support 

and networking, educate others, and advance 

personally and professionally.

The purpose of the BUILD 

ERG is to address critical 

needs in our communities 

through volunteerism, 

specifically by seeking 

Schnitzer’s Hispanic Employee Resource Group 

out partnerships with 

officially launched in September 2020 during 

organizations that support 

National Hispanic Heritage Month. With the 

underserved populations.

support of the group’s executive sponsors, more 

than 100 participants attended the kickoff 

meeting. Membership and attendance have since 

BUILD offers the opportunity for Schnitzer 

employees to dedicate time, resources, labor, and 

knowledge to help address the needs of others. Like 

other ERGs at Schnitzer, an important objective of 

The group seeks to build on advancement pathways 

this group is education. BUILD asks members to 

for Hispanic employees within the organization, and 

share experiences and knowledge based on their 

increase outreach, communication, and engagement 

diverse backgrounds and cultures, and provides 

with frontline Hispanic employees to promote 

an outlet for employees to learn about and from 

collaboration across functional levels. 

one another and apply their discussions to our 

communities to advance efforts to build up others.

The HERG promotes increased dialogue between  
Hispanic employees and Company leadership teams, 
offering an important opportunity to share ideas, 
information, and valuable development tools.” 

– Pedro Orbezo, Co-Leader of HERG

65

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPOWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 
 
BUILDING ON  
INTEGRITY  
& RESPECT

Each year Schnitzer employees participate in 

formal training on the Company's core values to 

ANTICORRUPTION PROGRAM
We scrutinize our operations for corruption 

review key information, including ethical behavior 

risks and constantly upgrade our training and 

standards, best practices for reporting misconduct, 

operational programs to address those risks. Our 

rules against retaliation, the importance of mutual 

comprehensive Anticorruption Policy prohibits 

respect and accountability, and our efforts related 

bribery, money laundering, and engaging with 

to diversity, equity, and inclusion.

The Ethics and Compliance Program works to 

Integrity underscores Schnitzer’s commitment to 

ensure that communications are inclusive and 

operating from an ethics-based approach, focused on 

accessible to all by creating training content 

honesty and transparency, responsible leadership, 

available in both English and Spanish, written and 

terrorists or other sanctioned entities. The policy 

also prohibits facilitation payments and requires 

meticulous recordkeeping.

Our policy is underscored by an expansive set 

of internal controls, training, and third-party 

and social responsibility. Our Ethics and Compliance 

audio formats, and by distributing emails, posters, 

monitoring. Our Anticorruption Handbook and 

program establishes and maintains the framework 

and flyers to convey messages clearly.

for how we treat one another and our stakeholders. 

By integrating ethically sound behaviors, we build 

trust and establish an expectation of personal and 

organizational responsibility.

ETHICS & COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
Schnitzer’s independent Ethics and Compliance 

We empower employees to raise compliance 

concerns by offering multiple communication 

channels, including a third-party, confidential, 

multilingual hotline, through which employees 

may choose to remain anonymous. Regardless of 

reporting method, our team ensures all reports  

function is governed by its charter, through which 

are promptly investigated and resolved.

our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer follows 

direct reporting lines to both the CEO and the 

Board of Directors through its Audit Committee.

Conducting business according 

to our core values requires a 

common set of ethical rules, 

which we present in our Code 

ETHICS IN 
ACTION AWARD 
Schnitzer’s Ethics 

in Action Award 

program recognizes 

employees who 

consistently 

of Conduct and Supplier 

Code of Conduct, which 

demonstrate ethical behavior. Award recipients 

exhibit a willingness to alert others to a potential 

communicates ethical guidelines 

hazard or problem and a tendency to go above 

for relationships with those in 

and beyond normal duties to help customers and 

our supply chain. Schnitzer's Ethics and Compliance 

colleagues alike. 

Program promotes the Codes of Conduct and fosters 

an inclusive and equitable environment where 

employees feel comfortable reporting concerns.

Employees at all levels may nominate colleagues 

throughout the year using an online portal. Our 

Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer recognizes 

honorees each year—an important opportunity to 

highlight everyday choices that make a difference.

66

other reference guides help employees understand 

relevant roles, rules, and requirements to ensure 

accountability. Our International Anticorruption 

Council, chaired by the Chief Ethics and Compliance 

Officer and consisting of senior leaders in operations, 

finance, legal, sales, procurement, IT, and internal 

audit, monitors the oversight and execution of 

Schnitzer’s Anticorruption Program.

HUMAN RIGHTS
As a business engaged in commercial transactions 

throughout the world, we take our responsibilities 

seriously to respect human rights everywhere we 

operate. Schnitzer’s Human Rights Policy reinforces 

our commitment to upholding the internationally 

recognized human rights standards as set forth 

in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of 

Human Rights and the International Labour 

Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental 

Principles and Rights at Work.

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES2021 WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL COMPANIES®*
Schnitzer earned the prestigious distinction as one of the 

Ethisphere® Institute’s 2021 World’s Most Ethical Companies®. 

The Ethisphere® Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Companies® 

distinction recognizes organizations actively driving positive 

change in the business community through ethical and 

responsible business practices. Schnitzer has received this honor for each of the last 

seven years, solidifying our status as part of a distinguished group of companies that 

drive community improvement, build capable and empowered workforces, and foster 

corporate cultures focused on ethics and a strong sense of purpose.

Each year we analyze the results of our World’s Most Ethical Companies® report, 

gaining significant insight into current best practices and leveraging data to plan 

improvements across the Company.

* “World’s Most Ethical Companies” and “Ethisphere” names and marks are registered trademarks  
  of Ethisphere LLC.

Our continued recognition as one of the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies® is particularly meaningful to all of us at 
Schnitzer because it reflects our ongoing efforts to improve 
and sustain performance. It means that our strong ethics 
and compliance program supports a sustainable culture of 
integrity and safety, dedication to customers and suppliers, 
and engagement with our communities.”

– Callie Pappas, Vice President & Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 

RECOGNITION AS RESPONSIBLE  
GLOBAL LEADERS
Schnitzer was named the winner of the S&P 

Global Platts 2021 Global Metals Awards Industry 

Leadership Award for Scrap & Recycling. The S&P 

Global Platts Global Metals Awards  

recognize and celebrate the best of the best in the 

metals industry. Winners include metal companies 

from 6 countries, all recognized for individual and 

company achievements across 15 categories of 

operational excellence. According to the judging 

panel, the winners were those who “have thrived 

and made progress by leaps and bounds with their 

environmental, social, and governance credentials, 

while maintaining financial strength.”

Schnitzer was named by Newsweek as one of America’s Most Responsible 

Companies of 2021. In partnership with the global data research firm Statista, 

Newsweek developed this list based on their analysis of 2,000 of the largest U.S. 

publicly traded companies, an independent survey of 6,500 U.S. consumers, and 

research on publicly available environmental, social, and governance data points.

68

69

S&P GLOBAL PLATTSGLOBAL METALS AWARDS2021 WINNER2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 
 
CULTIVATING COMMUNITY

Schnitzer employees are active members of the communities where we operate.  

Through direct charitable giving and employee volunteerism, 2021 marked an important 

year filled with meaningful community engagement as individuals, families, and 

organizations met the ongoing challenges of the global pandemic. Beyond our planned 

community engagement, we supported disaster relief efforts, leveraging our assets  

and deploying our resources to those in need.

INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES
Our community investment programs center around a core set of priorities that seek to 

provide relevant and purposeful impacts for local individuals and community groups. 

Schnitzer community investments sustain organizations that support:

  Children & Families

  Education and Workforce Development 

  Food Insecurity & Hunger Relief 

  Environmental Conservation & Protection

CHILDREN & FAMILIES
The Boys & Girls Clubs of America’s mission is to 

enable young people, especially those in marginalized 

and underserved communities, to reach their full 

Schnitzer is actively involved with the following 

Boys & Girls Clubs:

  Boys & Girls Club – Central New Hampshire 

potential as productive, caring, and responsible 

  A.G. Gaston Boys & Girls Club –  

citizens. Through our partnerships across the 

Birmingham, Alabama 

country, Schnitzer has provided broad support for 

this mission. We view our contributions as a form 

of service and assistance in the short term, as well 

  Murphy Felton Tindall Boys & Girls Club –  

Macon, Georgia 

as a long-term investment in the leaders of our 

  Rockwood Boys & Girls Club – Portland, Oregon

  Boys & Girls Club – Washington State 

  Boys & Girls Club – Oakland, California

sustainable tomorrow. 

In 2021 Schnitzer supported local Boys & Girls 

Clubs of America chapters in several U.S. states, 

Puerto Rico, and Canada, providing charitable 

contributions, donating supplies including COVID-19 

protection necessities, supporting summer camps 

and academic assistance programs, funding 

recreation and arts activities, and organizing and 

participating in fundraising events. 

70

71

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESFOOD INSECURITY & HUNGER RELIEF
Since its inception in 2010, Schnitzer's National Food Bank Initiative 

EDUCATION & WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
Schnitzer employs a diverse and dynamic workforce 

nonprofit organizations to expand our impact  

and protect the environment. 

has worked to address urgent community needs to combat hunger 

of more than 3,100 individuals across the U.S., 

and food insecurity. Through longstanding partnerships with many 

including Puerto Rico, and Western Canada. Our 

local food banks across the country, Schnitzer employees collect 

teams provide essential metals recycling and recovery 

donations for nonperishable food items, and the Company matches 

services, helping to keep valuable materials out of 

individual contributions.

In response to ongoing COVID-19-related food insecurity emergencies 

in many of our local communities over the last year, Schnitzer 

increased support to accommodate new and evolving needs. For 

instance, when the Emergency Food Network (EFN) in Pierce County, 

the landfill, while conserving energy and natural 

resources. Supporting education and workforce 

development programs that promote skilled labor jobs 

like those at Schnitzer is essential to our national 

and global transition to a low carbon economy.

Washington, began delivering food directly to recipients' homes, they 

Our recent partnership with The Steel Yard, a 

realized that many individuals did not have can openers to access 

nonprofit organization in Providence, Rhode 

nonperishable items. Employees at Schnitzer's' Tacoma, WA facility 

Island, aims to promote education and training 

responded by donating hundreds of can openers and organizing a 

programs, introducing talented individuals to the 

Earth Day Partnerships 
Working alongside local groups across the 

country, Schnitzer employees leverage Earth Day 

to showcase our commitment to environmental 

conservation and protection. In 2021 our employees, 

including their families and friends, participated 

in cleanups along rivers, lakes, and shorelines, 

neighborhood parks, and pedestrian greenways, 

volunteering their time, talents, and tools to 

beautify and restore the environment and  

our communities. 

2021 partnerships included:

community scrap drive to source additional funding for the EFN. 

metal recycling industry. In July 2021, our charitable 

  American River Parkway Foundation (ARPF) – 

Fiscal 2021 marked one of our most successful fundraising efforts in 

this initiative’s history, raising over $433 thousand in donations to more 

than 50 food banks and surpassing a $3 million donation milestone. 

I was homeless at one point for two years. During that 
time, I relied heavily on food banks to survive. I am forever 
grateful for those who donated money and food to those 
food banks so I had something to eat. When I have an 
opportunity to give back, I try my hardest to do as much 
good as I can.” 

–  Glenn Dorsey, Customer Service Agent at the Columbus, Ohio, Pick-n-Pull and  

2021 Donation Leader

donation supported a scholarship fund for youth 

Carmichael, California

campers to attend welding, blacksmithing, jewelry, 

  Friends of Mandela Parkway “Community Clean 

and ceramic summer camps in a safe and welcoming 

Up” – Oakland, California

environment. We are currently working to establish 

routine donations of scrap metal, such as rebar, 

  Piedmont Park Conservancy – Atlanta, Georgia
  Malama na Honu Green Sea Turtle Sponsorship – 

angle iron, etc., for future training programs, and 

Oahu, Hawaii

exploring opportunities to invite youth to become 

  Attleboro Conservation Commission at Cranberry 

more involved with The Steel Yard’s workforce 

Pond – Attleboro, Massachusetts 

training program as a pipeline for potentially hiring 

  Mystic River Watershed at Torbert MacDonald 

individuals who have completed their training.

Park – Medford, Massachusetts

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION  
& PROTECTION 
Environmental conservation and protection exist 

at the core of our business: saving energy and 

water, conserving virgin resources like wood, ore, 

and oil, and avoiding pollution and greenhouse 

gas emissions as we provide essential products 

and services that keep industries and economies 

running strong. Beyond these daily efforts to 

promote sustainability through our operations, 

we partner with local community groups and 

  Bayside Trail Clean Up – Portland, Maine
  City of Johnston “Community Clean Up” – 

Johnston, Rhode Island 

  Greater Yamhill Watershed Council at  
Cozine Creek (GYWC) – Yamhill and  

Chehalem Valleys, Oregon

  SOLVE Oregon for “Oregon Spring  

Cleanup” – Portland, Oregon 

  Beach Clean Up with Puyallup Tribe of Indians 
(PTOI) at Canoe Landing – Tacoma, Washington

72

73

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIESSupporting Ocean Cleanups
The Fishing for Energy program was launched in 

2008 as a partnership with the National Fish and 

Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) and the National 

Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) 

Marine Debris Program. 

The program provides grant funding to safely 

remove abandoned fishing gear from waterways and 

responsibly dispose of the collected materials. To 

date the program has collected more than 4.5 million 

pounds of gear and engaged over 1,000 fishermen by 

providing recycling collection bins at 56 ports across 

13 U.S. states. 

Since March 2020 Fishing for Energy has awarded 

over $5.1 million in grants to more than 55 projects 

in 17 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico.

Natural Disaster Aid & Response 
Schnitzer operates in communities throughout 

the country that have suffered this year from 

tornadoes, wildfires, and other natural disasters 

and the increasingly commonplace impacts of 

climate change. Beyond our regular, scheduled 

community engagement activities, we provided 

“Schnitzer gives back to its communities and 

encourages its employees to do the same,” Jody  

said. “It was the right thing to do and, knowing  

that these individuals had lost everything in the 

storm, it was the least we could do.”

  Wildfire Relief and Debris Management 

natural disaster relief assistance and deployed our 

As wildfires become more common during the 

summer months, especially across the western 

U.S., we find ourselves in a unique position to 

support cleanup and recovery services for affected 

communities. Burned materials like vehicles, RVs, 

or other metal appliances generally found in a 

home require proper management, and Schnitzer 

recycling facilities deliver environmentally 

responsible solutions.

Through a partnership with the Oregon Department 

of Transportation’s Debris Management Task 

Force, our Pacific Northwest operations supported 

recovery of many household items burned during 

the wildfires that devastated Oregon in 2020. 

Prioritizing environmental stewardship and 

resource conservation, Schnitzer is proud to offer 

a second life and transform these materials into 

usable resources.

resources to those in need.

  Answering the Call—Disaster Relief After a 

Tornado in Calhoun County, Alabama

Alabama had at least 10 tornadoes on March 25, 

2021, including the Ohatchee-Wellington Tornado  

in Calhoun County, roughly 30 miles southeast  

of Schnitzer’s recycling facility in the town of 

Attalla, Alabama.

Jody Free, 

Senior 

Purchasing 

Manager at our 

Attalla recycling 

facility, is also a 

30-year veteran 

volunteer 

firefighter. Upon learning of the disaster in nearby 

Calhoun County, Jody answered the call for local 

supplies. Remembering their reserve of hand 

sanitizer, masks, gloves, and other items meant 

for use by Schnitzer employees at the recycling 

yard, she partnered with Company leadership to 

donate these items to those who needed them most, 

coordinating next-morning delivery to shelters for 

displaced tornado victims.

FROM DEBRIS TO 
FINISHED STEEL: 
GIVING RECOVERED 
MATERIALS NEW LIFE

PLAY VIDEO

Schnitzer is proud to continue our partnership with NFWF and 
support the Fishing for Energy Program. For more than 10 years, 
Schnitzer operations have processed this discarded fishing gear to 
facilitate responsible disposal and recycling. By supporting the fishing 
community and working to keep our waterways clean, we strengthen 
our commitment to the environment—on both land and sea.”

–  Colin Kelly, Vice President of Public Affairs

74

75

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 
 
SCHNITZER’S VOLUNTEER PROGRAM  
Schnitzer’s Volunteer Time Off (VTO) Program aims to connect employees directly to the communities 

where we operate. From coaching children’s sports teams, leading scout troops, and chaperoning field 

NATIONAL & LOCAL INDUSTRY 
ENGAGEMENT 
Schnitzer’s involvement in national and local 

trips, to organizing and attending science fairs and after-school activities, participating in city cleanup 

chambers of commerce provides opportunities 

efforts, and working at food pantries, our employees take advantage of this program to actively engage and 

to engage and collaborate with people charged 

support our communities.

Through the Company’s VTO benefit, employees receive eight paid hours to participate in local volunteer 

efforts as we work toward a shared goal of volunteering 10,000 hours by 2025.

This year’s opportunities for in-person service were again limited due to pandemic restrictions, but where 

they did exist, our employees stepped up. For instance, the American Red Cross faced a severe shortage 

of blood donations because of their inability to host in-person blood drives. In addition to our cash 

contribution to the American Red Cross to support nationwide support for emergency assistance, disaster 

relief, and disaster preparedness education, this year employee volunteers organized a blood drive that 

enabled our employees to safely donate. 

with making decisions that impact business 

communities in the areas where we operate. Our 

involvement allows us to learn and share best 

practices with our peers, and participate in the 

development of public policies that protect  

the environment while promoting sustainable 

business practices. 

Our commitment to being a responsible and respected 

global corporate and community business citizen 

drives us to work constructively in partnerships with 

our communities.

Technical Institute in Sacramento, California. The 

partnership program, known as Schnitzer Academy, 

offers educational resources and hands-on training 

for students interested in the metal recycling 

industry, eventually providing job opportunities 

at our recycling facilities and Pick-n-Pull retail 

OUR CHAIRMAN & CEO PARTICIPATES 
ON THE BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE
Business Roundtable CEOs have been leading the 

stores. We donate used cars, sheet metal, and other 

resources to support classroom training, offer paid 

internship opportunities, financial assistance, and 

charge for sustainability in the business community. 

scholarships. We lead facility tours and eventually 

As a unified group, the CEOs are working to 

provide a pathway to full-time employment. Our 

demonstrate that environmental sustainability and 

employees visit classrooms to share real world 

economic growth in the U.S. go hand in hand, and 

experience and expertise on topics including metal 

are achievable together. U.S. businesses are making a 

work, industrial hydraulics, and vehicle dismantling 

positive impact on sustainable outcomes, which can 

and welding. 

be seen through major trends encouraging efficiency 

through reuse and recycling and advancing 

renewable energy, growing sustainable investing, 

and reducing carbon emissions. See the Business 

Roundtable’s Sustainability Spotlight featuring 

Tamara Lundgren. 

SCHNITZER ACADEMY
In 2021 Schnitzer launched a three-year partnership 

Schnitzer Academy aims to bring talented 

individuals to the metal recycling industry, while also 

providing an educational platform for sustainable 

development throughout our local communities 

and beyond. In the coming years we plan to expand 

Schnitzer Academy in other parts of the country, 

engaging students interested in a career in the 

metals recycling industry and developing the talent 

with Student Programming for Athletic and 

necessary to advance the use of sustainable metal 

Academic Transitioning at McClymonds High 

processing technologies for infrastructure and 

School and Laney College in Oakland, and Universal 

related development. 

76

77

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.POWERING OUR PEOPLE & CULTIVATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 
 
ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
Since 2014 we have engaged with S&P Global Market Intelligence to provide assurance of selected Key 

Performance Indicators (KPIs), including Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions; energy consumption by 

source; water withdrawal by source; disposition of recycled, recovered, and landfill material; and occupational 

workforce safety performance. S&P Global Market Intelligence has undertaken assurance of these KPIs in 

accordance with AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 moderate-level assurance.

GRI Index 
Schnitzer references relevant standards developed by the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a global framework for 
sustainability reporting, providing a clear and transparent 
way for organizations to report their environmental, social, 
economic, and governance impacts.

SASB Disclosures 
Schnitzer reports on relevant metrics developed by the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for our 
Primary SICS Sector (Extractives & Minerals Processing) and 
Primary SICS Industry (Iron & Steel Producers).

CDP/TCFD Reporting 
Since 2017 Schnitzer has been a respondent to CDP’s 
questionnaires. CDP is a nonprofit organization that 
operates the global disclosure system for investors, 
companies, cities, states, and regions to manage their 
environmental impacts.

Over the years our reporting to CDP has been beneficial in 
engaging with investors, suppliers, and customers on the 
environmental value of the Company, as well as providing 
valuable information on the Company’s governance 
structure and involvement, risks and opportunities, 
integrated sustainable business strategy, environmental-
related targets and performance, and showing progress 
toward managing our GHG emissions, energy use, water 
consumption, and supply chain impacts. In 2021 we received 
CDP scores of A- (Climate) and A (Water Security).

CDP’s climate change questionnaire is aligned with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD)—a body established in 2015 by 
G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors within 
the Financial Stability Board (FSB), and its chair at the time, 
Mark Carney, then Governor of the Bank of England. This 
group is concerned with the financial stability ramifications 
of climate change resulting from the potential mispricing of 
assets and misallocation of capital.

The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) develops voluntary, consistent, climate-related 
financial risk disclosures for companies to provide 
information to stakeholders. Schnitzer supports this 
initiative and is committed to providing our stakeholders 
with relevant information on climate-related issues. Our 
approach and assessment results are summarized below.

TCFD-related information can be found in the Designing 
Our Sustainable Future section of this report and our CDP 
disclosures. CDP’s climate change questionnaire contains 
over 25 TCFD-aligned questions, which form the basis of 
the analysis above. These questions are contained within the 
Governance, Risks & Opportunities, Strategy, Targets and 
Emissions modules.

Appendix

80Assurance Statement 84GRI Index

93SASB Disclosures

78

79

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIXASSURANCE STATEMENT

Assurance statement 

Trucost was engaged by Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. to 
provide assurance of the environmental and social data 
held within its 2021 Sustainability Report, CDP Climate 
Change Response, and CDP Water Response. 

Intended users 

The intended users of this assurance statement are the 
management and stakeholders of Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. 
(hereafter “Schnitzer”). 

Responsibilities of Schnitzer and assurance  provider 

The management of Schnitzer has sole responsibility for the 
preparation and content of the 2021 Sustainability Report and 
CDP Climate Change and Water Response  (hereafter, CDP). 
Trucost’s statement represents its independent and balanced 
opinion on the content and accuracy of the information and 
environmental and social data held within.  

Assurance standard 

Trucost undertook the assurance in accordance with AA1000 AS 
v3 (2020) Type 2 moderate-level assurance, covering: 

Evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2018) Principles of 
inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, and impact (the 
Principles). 

The reliability of specified environmental performance 
information (TCIR, energy use, greenhouse gas  emissions, water 
use, waste generated and waste disposed of). 

Trucost used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the GHG 
Protocol to evaluate Schnitzer’s performance information and 
adherence to the Principles. 

Scope and limitations 

Trucost was engaged to assure the data and claims in Schnitzer’s 
2021 external reporting, encompassing the period of 1 
September 2020 – 31 August 2021. Trucost was asked to assure 
reporting for specific KPIs. Schnitzer took an operational control 
approach. 

Trucost verified the environmental and social impacts, as 
calculated by Schnitzer, within the table below. 

GHG EMISSIONS 

ENERGY 

WATER 

Purchased municipal water 

Extracted well water 

 unit 

m3 

m3 

 QUANTITY 

1,227,189 

9,303 

WASTE 

By Source Category  

Business waste 

Process waste 

By Disposition3  

Landfill disposal 

 unit 

QUANTITY 

Metric tons 

Metric tons 

Metric tons 

7,504 

697,133 

72,552 

632,085 

Beneficial Re-use/Recycling  Metric tons 

By Regulation4 

U.S. Federal RCRA 

Metric tons 

4,255 

EMPLOYEE  SAFETY 

 unit  

 QUANTITY 

TCIR5 

Number of cases per 
200,000 hours worked 

1.71 

1The quantity reported under GHG Scope 1 fuel combustion include the following fuel types: Diesel, 
Biodiesel, Gasoline, Ethanol, Fuel Oil, Kerosene, Propane, Propylene, and Acetylene. 
2 The quantity reported under GHG Scope 2 market-based emissions include bundled and unbundled utility 
green tariffs or energy attribute certificates for the reporting year. This quantity also includes Schnitzer’s 
voluntary purchase and retirement of 35,300 MWh verified renewable energy credits to achieve 100% net 
carbon-free power mix in their market-based contracted grid-electricity. 
3The quantity reported under the beneficial Re-use/Recycling category is inclusive of materials for re-
use/recycling; materials used for energy recovery and may include U.S. federal RCRA materials. 
4The quantity reported under U.S. federal RCRA may be inclusive of both disposition types i.e. by landfill 
disposal, and re-use/recycling.
5TCIR stands for Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) as the number of work-related injuries per 100 full-time 
workers during a one year period. Source: OSHA 

In 2021, Schnitzer’s business travel activity remained restricted 
and limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in low 
business travel emissions. The company also made enhancements 
to its waste management procedures, including record keeping 
practices and personnel training. These enhancements have 
helped achieve more accurate reporting of regulated and 
disposed waste. In 2021, Schnitzer’s disposed waste quantities 
increased due to increase in production activity and its enhanced 
waste management procedures.  

UNIT  QUANTITY 

UNIT  QUANTITY 

Methodology 

By Scope 

GHG Scope 1-  

Fuel Combustion1 

GHG Scope 1-  

NG Combustion 

GHG Scope 1- 
Production Process 

GHG Scope 2- 
Location-based 
electricity 

GHG Scope 2- Market-
based electricity2 

GHG Scope 3-  

Business Travel 

Metric 
tons 
CO2e 

Metric 
tons 
CO2e 

Metric 
tons 
CO2e 

48,352 

GJ 

694,396 

44,911 

GJ 

886,280 

52,272 

 NA 

25,291 

 0 

GJ 

1,337,398 

  707 

NA 

80

Trucost’s assurance activities included the following: 

•

•

•

•

•

Review of the processes by which Schnitzer defines the
sustainability issues that are relevant and material to its 
operations and its stakeholders.

Interviews with managers responsible for sustainability 
performance and data collection

Assessment  of the extent to which Schnitzer’s sustainability 
activities adheres to the Principles

Review of processes and systems used to gather and
consolidate environmental data

Verification of data accuracy for a selection of sites,
including an audit of conversion factors and calculations.

Assurance statement 

PRINCIPLE 

COMMENTS 

Inclusivity: the participation of 
stakeholders in developing and 
achieving an accountable and 
strategic response to sustainability 

Materiality: determining the 
relevance and significance of an issue 
to an organization and its 
stakeholders  

Responsiveness:  an organization’s 
response to stakeholder issues that 
affect its sustainability performance 
and is realized through decisions, 
actions, and performance, as well as 
communication with stakeholders  

Impact: Organizations  should 
monitor, measure, and be 
accountable for how their actions 
impact broader ecosystems 

Schnitzer takes a comprehensive approach to ensure active engagement of all relevant 
internal and external stakeholders which includes its shareholder, employees, and local 
communities as well as regulators, customers, suppliers, and relevant non -profit 
associations. Schnitzer keeps its stakeholders informed of its initiatives, policies and 
strategies through annual public disclosures like Sustainability report, CDP report, 
newsletters, and periodic notifications. Schnitzer also welcomes feedback and 
suggestion from its stakeholders through various channels like surveys, meetings and 
direct engagement with stakeholder group. All stakeholder concerns are given equal 
priority. During the reporting period, Schnitzer engaged with 100% of its identified 
stakeholder groups.  
The Company's Board of Directors is provided with quarterly updates on major risks by 
their Executive Team, including Senior Vice Presidents and General Counsel. Additionally, 
the Chief Sustainability Officer reports quarterly to Chairman and CEO  on issues of 
climate-related strategy, monitoring implementation and performance of set objectives, 
goals and targets.  

Schnitzer conducted its materiality assessment exercise during the reporting period to 
identify relevant environment, social and governance topics material to its business. 
The issue prioritization was determined through both results of surveys and discussions 
held through stakeholder engagement process. The issues identified were classified in 
three tiers depending on their rank and priority with tier 1 issues being of highest 
priority followed by tier 2 and tier 3 issues. The top five material topics for Schnitzer 
are: environmental management, employee safety, talent recruitment and retention, 
employee training and development, local community relation and trust. Schnitzer 
combines both qualitative and quantitative approach to identify, analyze and mitigate 
the material risks to the organization. These risks are also brought to the attention of 
company leadership as needed. From the climate risk perspective, regulatory risk, and 
physical risk from acute weather events are still considered material due to its impact 
on the supply chain and its operations.   

Schnitzer ensures that it responds to all its stakeholder concern related to its 
environmental and social topics coming through different channels within a reasonable 
time. The stakeholder concerns and feedback are taken in due consideration in 
developing business strategies.  
Schnitzer also strives to leverage process improvements that include both new metal 
recovery technology and behavioral improvement practices that recover more scrap 
metal, and indirectly mitigate the excess GHG emissions associated with manufacturing 
new metal via newly mined virgin resources. This allows Schnitzer to stay relevant and 
competitive in the transition to low-carbon economy. Besides this, Schnitzer regularly 
evaluates opportunities to minimize its emissions through renewable energy.  

Schnitzer makes investments in plant equipment to improve the efficiencies of carbon 
inputs into its steel manufacturing process in effort to conserve raw resources and lower 
its carbon outputs. Schnitzer has plans to roll out a software program system that 
facilitates the real-time monitoring and management of energy consumption across all its 
facilities. It also evaluates its carbon pricing risk on annual basis.  The Company’s 
management is incentivized for achievement of sustainability goals anchored to 2025 and 
2050 targets, particularly related to its strategic objectives and EH&S performance. 
Overall, this has  encouraged management to seek to develop climate-related 
performance projects. 

81

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIXAssurance statement 

Findings, conclusions, and recommendations 

The Principles:  

Nothing came to Trucost’s attention to suggest that Schnitzer’s CDP Response  or Sustainability Report does not adhere to the AA1000 
Principles. 

Data reliability:  

Schnitzer has implemented rigorous processes to collect and aggregate global energy consumption, GHG emissio ns, water use, and waste 
generation. Upon evaluating this system, Trucost found that data was  accurate overall and any minor corrections were made as  necessary. 

Assurance provider  

Trucost has been researching, standardizing, and validating corporate environmental performance data since 2000. Trucost’s research team 
has the relevant professional and technical competencies and experience to conduct an assurance to the AA1000 standard. Truco st has 
conducted this assurance independently and impartially and in compliance with S&P Global’s policies and procedures, includ ing its Code of 
Business Ethics that provide a framework relating to ethical conduct, conflict of interest , and compliance with law. 

Trucost, part of S&P Global 
London, October 2021 

Steven Bullock 
Global Head of Research and Innovation 

NOTICE  
©2021 S&P Trucost Limited (“Trucost”), an affiliate of S&P Global Market Intelligence. All rights reserved.  

The materials have been prepared solely for informational purposes based upon information generally available to the 
public and from sources believed to be reliable. No content contained in these materials (including text, data, reports, 
images, photos, graphics, charts, animations, videos, research, valuations, models, software or other application or 
output therefrom or any part thereof (“Content”) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in 
any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of Trucost 
or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global). S&P Global, its affiliates and their licensors do not guarantee the accuracy, 
completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global, its affiliates and their licensors are not responsible 
for any errors or omissions, regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE 
CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS. S&P GLOBAL, ITS AFFILIATES AND LICENSORS DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR 
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH 
ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global, its affiliates or their licensors be liable 
to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, 
costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs) in 
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.  

Trucost’s opinions, quotes and credit-related and other analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are 
expressed and not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any 
investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. Trucost assumes no obligation to update the 
Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for 
the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making 
investment and other business decisions.  

S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other in order to preserve the independence 
and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result, certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that is 
not available to other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the 
confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.  

S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of 
securities or from obligors. S&P Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public 
ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and 
www.ratingsdirect.com (subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P Global 
publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is available at 
www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees. 

82

83

4 

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIX 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRI INDEX

General Disclosures
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

GRI 102: General Disclosures

Organizational Profile — 2016 Standards

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

102-1

102-2

102-3

102-4

102-5

102-6

102-7

102-8

102-9

Name of the organization

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.

Activities, brands, products, services

What We Do: Metals Recycling, Auto Dismantling, Parts Recovery, and 
Vehicle Recycling, Steel Manufacturing 
2021 10-K page 2-3

Location of headquarters

Location of operations

Ownership and legal form

Markets served

Scale of the organization

Portland, Oregon

2021 10-K page 4, 29

2021 10-K page 32

2021 10-K page 3-9

About Schnitzer 
2021 10-K page 38

Information on employees and other workers

Supply chain

About Schnitzer / Powering Our People 
2021 10-K page 12

Appendix / SASB Disclosures 
2021 10-K page 7-8, 19-20, 34-35, 60

102-10

Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chain

2021 10-K page 9, 60

102-11

Precautionary Principle or approach

Schnitzer does not prescribe to the Precautionary Principle, but has a 
comprehensive enterprise risk management process.

102-12

102-13

External initiatives

2021 ESG Achievements / Our Sustainability Goals

Membership of associations

National & Local Industry Engagement

Strategy — 2016 Standards

102-14

102-15

Statement from senior decision-maker

Chairman and CEO Message

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

About Schnitzer / Our Sustainability Goals 
2021 10-K page 15-28

Ethics & Integrity — 2016 Standards

102-16

Values, principles, standards and norms of 
behavior

About Schnitzer / Our Core Values 
Code of Conduct

102-17

Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct

DISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Governance — 2016 Standards

102-18

Governance structure

102-19

Delegating authority

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
2021 10-K page 14, 91 
Proxy Statement

Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Proxy Statement / Corporate Governance Guidelines

Chairman and CEO Message 
CSO Message 
Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles

102-20

102-21

102-22

Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics

Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics

Materiality Assessment

Composition of the highest governance body and 
its committees

Proxy Statement

102-23

Chair of the highest governance body

Tamara L. Lundgren is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer 
CEO Message

102-24

102-25

102-26

102-27

102-28

102-29

102-31

102-32

Nominating and selecting the highest governance 
body

Proxy Statement

Conflicts of interest

Code of Conduct page 13-14

Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategy

Chairman and CEO Message 
About Schnitzer / Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Proxy Statement

Collective knowledge of highest governance body

Proxy Statement

Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance

Proxy Statement

Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impacts

Review of economic, environmental, and social 
topics

Chairman and CEO Message 
Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
2021 10-K page 14-28, 35-36

Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals

Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 
reporting

Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Proxy Statement / Chairman & CEO Letter to Shareholders

102-33

Communicating critical concerns

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct page 5-6

102-34

102-35

102-36

102-37

102-38

102-39

Nature and total number of critical concerns

This information is confidential

Remuneration policies

Proxy Statement

Process for determining remuneration

Proxy Statement

Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration

Proxy Statement

Annual total compensation ratio

Percentage increase in annual total compensation 
ratio

Proxy Statement

Proxy Statement

84

85

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIX102-41

102-42

102-45

102-46

102-47

102-48

102-49

102-50

102-51

102-52

102-53

102-54

102-55

102-56

103-1

103-2

DISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Stakeholder Engagement — 2016 Standards

102-40

List of stakeholder groups

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

Materiality Assessment 
Appendix / Assurance statement

Collective bargaining agreements

2021 10-K page 12, 27, 81

Identifying and selecting stakeholders

102-43

Approach to stakeholder engagement

102-44

Key topics and concerns raised

Reporting Practice — 2016 Standards

Materiality Assessment 
Appendix / Assurance statement

Materiality Assessment 
Appendix / Assurance statement

Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals

Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements

2021 10-K page 60

Defining report content and topic boundaries

Materiality Assessment

List of material topics

Materiality Assessment

Restatements (reconciliations) of information

Appendix / Assurance statement

Changes in reporting

Reporting period

Date of most recent report

Reporting cycle

This report reflects our updated list of material sustainability issues 
based on our 2021 materiality assessment, previously assessed in 
2017-2018. This report does not cover our acquisition of Columbus 
Recycling, which transactionally closed on October 1, 2021.

Fiscal Year 2021: September 1, 2020 — August 31, 2021

Fiscal Year 2020

Annual

Contact point for questions regarding the report

Sustainability@schn.com

GRI content index

External assurance

GRI content index

Appendix / Assurance statement

GRI 200: Economic

Economic Performance — 2016 Standards

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

About Schnitzer 
2021 10-K page 32-38

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

201-1

Direct economic value generated and distributed

About Schnitzer 
Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
2021 10-K page 32-38

About Schnitzer 
Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
2021 10-K page 32-38

About Schnitzer 
Measuring Our Impact 
2021 10-K page 32-38

DISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

201-3

201-4

Defined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plans

2021 10-K page 81-84 
Proxy Statement

Financial assistance received from government

Potential government incentive mechanisms are occasionally 
evaluated and considered in analysis of site/facility projects/
investment activities. No public institutions hold any major shares  
in Schnitzer.

Anti-Corruption — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

205-1

205-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

The management approach and its components

Evaluation of the management approach

Operations assessed for risks related to corruption

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct page 18-20

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct page 18-20

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct page 18-20

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct page 18-20

Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures

Building on Integrity and Respect 
Code of Conduct page 18-20

Anti-Competitive Behavior — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

206-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Code of Conduct page 15-17

The management approach and its components

Code of Conduct page 15-17

Evaluation of the management approach

Code of Conduct page 15-17

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-
trust, and monopoly practices

Code of Conduct page 15-17

GRI 300: Environmental

Materials — 2016 Standards

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

301-1

301-2

Materials used by weight or volume

Recycled input materials used

About Schnitzer 
Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Measuring Our Impact 
2021 10-K page 2-14

About Schnitzer 
Sustainability Governance, Strategy, Principles 
Measuring Our Impact 
2021 10-K page 2-14

Our Sustainability Goals 
Measuring Our Impact 
2021 10-K page 2-14

Measuring Our Impact 
2021 10-K page 2-14

As a recycling company, and manufacturer of steel using recycled 
scrap metal, virtually all material inputs into our primary products 
and services are recycled materials. For example, our finished steel 
products contain 95% recycled content by weight, using recycled 
ferrous metal sourced internally from our own recycling and joint 
venture operations.

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
Standards

This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

201-2

Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change

CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

301-3

Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Not applicable — While many of our products are considered to be 

"reclaimed", they are predominately shipped void of packaging 
materials.

86

87

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIXDISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Energy — 2016 Standards

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

DISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Emissions — 2016 Standards

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Designing Our Sustainable Future

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Designing Our Sustainable Future

The management approach and its components

The management approach and its components

103-1

103-2

Energy consumption outside of the organization

CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

Energy intensity

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

302-1

Energy consumption within the organization

302-4

Reduction of energy consumption

302-5

Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and services

Water and Effluents — 2018 Standards

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

103-1

103-2

302-2

302-3

103-1

103-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

The management approach and its components

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future 
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future 
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Interactions with water as a shared resource

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Management of water discharge-related impacts

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

Water withdrawal

Water discharge

Water consumption

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures 
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List score for 2021 submission)

306-1

Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impacts

306-2

Management of significant waste-related impacts

306-3

Waste generated

306-4

Waste diverted from disposal

306-5

Waste directed to disposal

303-1

303-2

303-3

303-4

303-5

88

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

305-1

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

305-2

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

305-3

Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

305-4

GHG emissions intensity

305-5

Reduction of GHG emissions

305-7

Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 
other significant air emissions

Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Waste — 2020 Standards

103-1

103-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Designing Our Sustainable Future

The management approach and its components

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures 
CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures 
CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures 
CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A- score for 2020 submission)

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

89

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIXDISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Environmental Compliance — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

Designing Our Sustainable Future 
EMS Policy & Commitments

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future 
EMS Policy & Commitments

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Designing Our Sustainable Future 
EMS Policy & Commitments

DISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Training and Education

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

404-1

Average hours of training per year per employee

404-2

404-3

Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs

Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews

Diversity and Equal Opportunity — 2016 Standards

Employee Training & Development 
At a minimum, our employee training and development programs 
administer in the range of 8-10 hours per employee per year.

Employee Training & Development

Employee Training & Development 
All employees receive regular performance and career development 
reviews.

307-1

Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations

2021 10-K page 30-31

GRI 400: Social

Powering Our People & Cultivating Strong Communities

103-1

103-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

The management approach and its components

Occupational Health and Safety — 2018 Standards

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

Non-Discrimination — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

The management approach and its components

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

406-1

Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 
taken

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion

Fostering Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion 
The Company does not tolerate any form of discrimination, has a 
non-discrimination policy that is acknowledged by all employees and 
comprehensively investigates and addresses any concerns raised. 
Code of Conduct page 8-9

103-1

103-2

403-1

403-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Achieving Our Safety Goals

The management approach and its components

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Achieving Our Safety Goals

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Achieving Our Safety Goals

Achieving Our Safety Goals

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Occupational health and safety management 
system

Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation

Achieving Our Safety Goals

403-3

Occupational health services

403-4

Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety

403-5

Worker training on occupational health and safety

403-6

Promotion of worker health

403-7

Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships

403-9

Work-related injuries

Achieving Our Safety Goals 
Employee Training & Development 
Enhancing Employee Health & Wellness

Achieving Our Safety Goals 
Employee Training & Development 
Enhancing Employee Health & Wellness

Achieving Our Safety Goals 
Employee Training & Development 
Enhancing Employee Health & Wellness

Achieving Our Safety Goals 
Employee Training & Development 
Enhancing Employee Health & Wellness

Achieving Our Safety Goals

Achieving Our Safety Goals 
Appendix / Assurance Statement 
Appendix / SASB Disclosures

90

91

2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.APPENDIXDISCLOSURE 
NUMBER

DESCRIPTION

Human Rights Assessment — 2016 Standards

2021 REFERENCE/RESPONSE

103-1

103-2

103-3

412-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Code of Conduct page 32-33

The management approach and its components

Code of Conduct page 32-33

Evaluation of the management approach

Code of Conduct page 32-33

Operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews or impact assessments

412-2

Employee training on human rights policies or 
procedures

Local Communities — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Cultivating Community

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

413-1

Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programs

Public Policy

415-1

Political contributions

Cultivating Community

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Cultivating Community

Materiality Assessment 
Our Sustainability Goals 
Cultivating Community

Cultivating Community

Building On Integrity and Respect 
Schnitzer operates in fully developed economies, in urban 
environments across the United States, including Puerto Rico, 
and western Canada — all of which have common arrangements 
for the protection of people at large. None of our workforce can 
be characterized as vulnerable as a group. However, issues of 
unconscious biases, including bullying and intimidation may arise, 
and are addressed in our Code of Conduct, Human Rights policy, 
and other Company policies, which include the rights to independent 
representation, independent internal hearing (separated from direct 
line management reporting) and whistle-blower provisions.

Building On Integrity and Respect 
All employees receive training on our Code of Conduct upon joining 
the Company. All Schnitzer employees, both union and non-union, 
participate in annual training on our Company’s core values, which 
includes instruction on our Code of Conduct and ethical behavior.

SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING 
STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) 
DISCLOSURES

SASB SECTOR / SICS
Extractives & Minerals Processing / Iron & Steel Producers — Industry Standard Version 2018-10

REPORTING PERIOD 
Fiscal Year 2021 (September 1, 2020 through August 31, 2021) 

METRIC

CATEGORY

UNIT OF 
MEASURE

CODE

RESPONSE/COMMENT

Activity Metrics

Production Activities

Raw steel 
production, 
percentage from: 
(1) basic oxygen 
furnace 
processes

Raw steel 
production, 
percentage from: 
(2) electric arc 
furnace processes

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-000.A Not applicable. We do not produce steel via basic oxygen furnace (BOF) 

(t), 
Percentage 
(%)

processes. All steel we produce is via electric arc furnace (EAF) processes. 
From a GHG emissions standpoint, EAF steelmaking results in far lower GHG 
emissions than BOF steelmaking. Comparable CO2e emissions factors per 
metric ton of steel produced are: 1.83 for global steel production, 1.59 for U.S. 
integrated steel production, 0.65 for all U.S. steel production, 0.21 for U.S. 
EAF steel production. Our emissions factor is approximately 0.17.

Quantitative Metric tons  

EM-IS-000.A 417,000 

(t), 
Percentage 
(%)

100%

Melt shop production: Our melt shop includes an EAF, a 
ladle refining furnace with enhanced steel chemistry refining 
capabilities, and a five-strand continuous billet caster, 
permitting the mill to produce special alloy grades of steel 
not currently produced by other mills on the West Coast 
of the U.S. The melt shop produced approximately 460 
thousand short tons of steel in the form of billets during fiscal 
2021. The substantial majority of these billets are reheated in 
a natural gas-fueled furnace and are then hot-rolled through 
the rolling mill to produce finished steel products. The 
rolling mill has an effective annual production capacity under 
current conditions of approximately 580 thousand short tons 
of finished steel products.

The primary feedstock (over 90% by weight) for the 
manufacture of our finished steel products is ferrous recycled 
scrap metal. Our steel mill obtains substantially all of its scrap 
metal raw material requirements from our integrated metals 
recycling and joint venture operations.

In fiscal 2021, we sold 488 thousand short tons of finished 
steel products, i.e., rebar and wire rod, as well as over 
4 million metric tons of ferrous scrap metal (including 
intercompany sales to our steel mill) for use in EAF 
steelmaking in the U.S. and around the world. 

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

92

93

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAPPENDIX 
 
 
 
METRIC

CATEGORY

UNIT OF 
MEASURE

Total iron ore 
production

Quantitative Metric tons 

(t)

CODE

RESPONSE/COMMENT

EM-IS-000.B Not applicable. We do not consume or sell iron ore in the production of 
our steel products. Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap 
for use in EAF steelmaking is estimated to conserve 2,425 pounds of iron 
ore. Therefore, by extension, our operations supported the conservation 
of more than 10.8 billion pounds of iron ore in fiscal 2021. Additionally, we 
produce three valuable coproducts: millscale, baghouse dust, and slag. 
Millscale functions as a metallurgical input to steelmaking, supporting the 
avoidance of iron ore production and the conservation of raw iron ore, 
while baghouse dust avoids zinc production and slag avoids cement and 
gravel production.

Total coking coal 
production

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-000.C Not applicable. We do not consume or sell coking coal in the production 

(t)

of our steel products. Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap 
for use in EAF steelmaking is estimated to conserve 1,389 pounds of coal. 
Therefore, by extension, our operations supported the conservation of 
more than 6.2 billion pounds of coal in fiscal 2021.

Accounting Metrics

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Gross global 
Scope 1 emissions, 
percentage 
covered under 
emissions-limiting 
regulations

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-110a.1 145,534 

(t) CO2-e, 
Percentage 
(%)

0%

Currently, 0% of our gross global Scope 1 emissions are 
covered under emissions-limiting regulations. We are 
required to annually report GHG emissions from our steel 
mill to the State of Oregon Department of Environmental 
Quality (ODEQ) and the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA). In March of 2020, the Governor of Oregon 
issued an executive order directing state agencies to take 
certain actions to reduce and regulate GHG emissions, 
including the development of a "cap and reduce" program 
that would cover large stationary sources. In Oregon our 
steel manufacturing and metal shredding operations may 
be subject to emissions-limiting regulations in the near 
term that may impact approximately 53% of our Scope 1 
emissions.

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

Discussion of 
long-term and 
short-term strategy 
or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, 
emissions 
reduction targets, 
and an analysis 
of performance 
against those 
targets

EM-IS-110a.2 Our sustainability goals are aligned with our long-term business success 
with targets for fiscal 2030 to 2050 in the (a) long-term and fiscal 2022 to 
2025 in the (b) short-to-medium term, set to a base year of fiscal 2019. We 
have set a fiscal 2025 goal to achieve net zero from all operations with 
an interim target to reduce Scope 1 GHG emissions from our recycling 
operations by 25% by end of fiscal 2025. Mechanisms for achieving our goal 
and meeting our targets may include (1) capital investments in emissions 
control and air pollutant elimination technologies on our metal shredding 
operations, (2) capital investments to achieve greater fuel-economy by 
retrofit and/or replacement of on-road transport vehicles and off-road 
equipment, (3) capital investments to electrify equipment that is currently 
fuel-consuming, (4) sourcing a greater proportion of fuels with suitable 
low-carbon fuel alternatives (i.e., renewable natural gas, renewable diesel, 
biodiesel and ethanol fuel blends), (5) capital investments in other energy 
efficiency technologies for water and space heating applications that reduce 
our consumption of natural gas, and (6) the purchase and retirement of 
"high-quality" carbon offsets. Limiting factors to achieving these goals may 
include (i) a shortfall in or inability to make adequate capital investments, (ii) 
a shortfall in the emission reduction performance of control technologies 
acquired and deployed, (iii) an inability to acquire and deploy adequate 
emission reduction controls and energy efficiency technologies, (iv) an 
inability to source suitable low-carbon fuel alternatives, and (v) an inability 
to source "high-quality" carbon credits. In fiscal 2021, we achieved an 
8% reduction in Scope 1 emissions from all operations compared to our 
base year. We have obtained external assurance, by S&P Global Market 
Intelligence in accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, 
for 100% site coverage and sources of Scope 1 emissions. 

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

METRIC

CATEGORY

UNIT OF 
MEASURE

CODE

RESPONSE/COMMENT

Quantitative

Metric tons 
(t)

EM-IS-120a.1

274

1,264

83

89

n/a

n/a

110

<1

We report on distinct air emissions associated with the 
consumption of fuels by our on-road transport vehicles 
and off-road equipment only. The emittance of some of 
these pollutants (i.e., VOCs) from other sources, such 
as production processes or the consumption of natural 
gas, may be reported on within our gross global Scope 1 
emissions in terms of metric tons of CO2-e.

Quantitative

Gigajoules 
(GJ), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-130a.1

2,918,073

46%

46% 
100% 
<1%

In fiscal 2021, we experienced an 7% decrease in total energy 
consumed compared to our base year. Sources of energy 
consumed by our operations include grid electricity, natural 
gas, and other fuels (listed below). In the medium-term, we 
anticipate our energy consumption to increase, from both 
renewable and non-renewable sources. We have obtained 
external assurance, by S&P Global Market Intelligence in 
accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, 
for 100% site coverage and sources of energy consumed. 

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

Air Emissions

(1) CO

(2) NOx (excluding 
N2O)

(3) SOx

(4) PM10

(5) MnO

(6) Pb

(7) VOCs

(8) PAHs

Energy Management

(1) Total energy 
consumed

(2) Percentage grid 
electricity

(3) Percentage 
renewable 
(including carbon-
free): (i) total 
energy, (ii) grid 
electricity use, 
(iii) fossil fuel 
consumption

(1) Total fuel 
consumed

(2) Percentage coal

0%

(3) Percentage 
natural gas

Quantitative

Gigajoules 
(GJ), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-130a.2

56%

1,580,675

In fiscal 2021, we experienced a 7% decrease in total fuel 
consumed compared our base year. Sources of fuel consumed 
by our operations include natural gas, diesel, biodiesel 
blends, gasoline, ethanol blends, fuel oil, kerosene, propane, 
propylene, ametalene, and acetylene. We have obtained 
external assurance, by S&P Global Market Intelligence in 
accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, 
for 100% site coverage and sources of fuel consumed. 

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

Not applicable. We do not consume coal as a source of fuel. 
Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap for use 
in EAF steelmaking is estimated to conserve 1,389 pounds 
of coal. Therefore, by extension, our operations supported 
the conservation of more than 6.2 billion pounds of coal in 
fiscal 2021.

In fiscal 2021, we experienced an 8% decrease in total natural 
gas consumption compared to our base year. Our primary use 
of natural gas is in the reheat furnaces and melt shop of our 
steel manufacturing operations, where precasted billets are 
reheated and then processed through our rolling mill to 
produce our finished steel products — rebar and wire rod. Our 
secondary use of natural gas consumption is in regenerative 
thermal oxidizers of our metal shredding operations where 
captured VOC air emissions are treated to reduce GHG 
emissions from our shredding production processes. In fiscal 
2021, our steel manufacturing operations were briefly 
shuttered. This one-off event is the primary reason for 
decreased natural gas consumption. In the medium-term 
we anticipate our natural gas consumption to increase.

94

95

(4) Percentage 
renewable

<1%

We consume a small amount of biodiesel-blended and 
ethanol-blended fuel in our on-road transport vehicles and 
off-road equipment. In the medium-term, we anticipate our 
renewable fuel consumption to increase.

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAPPENDIXMETRIC

CATEGORY

UNIT OF 
MEASURE

CODE

RESPONSE/COMMENT

METRIC

CATEGORY

UNIT OF 
MEASURE

CODE

RESPONSE/COMMENT

Water Management

(1) Total fresh 
water withdrawn

(2) Percentage 
recycled

(3) Percentage in 
regions with high 
or extremely high 
baseline water 
stress

Quantitative

Thousand 
cubic 
meters (m3), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-140a.1

1,236

96%

2%

In fiscal 2021, we experienced a 5% increase in total 
fresh water withdrawn compared to our base year. Our 
steel mill is the primary user of water, representing 57% 
of total fresh water withdrawal and maintaining a water 
recycling rate of approximately 96% in fiscal 2021. Our 
metal shredding operations are also significant users of 
water, representing 31% of total fresh water withdrawal in 
fiscal 2021. We have obtained external assurance, by S&P 
Global Market Intelligence in accordance with AA1000AS 
Type 2 moderate-level assurance, for 100% site coverage 
and sources of fresh water withdrawn.

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

Our steel mill is the primary user of water, representing 
57% of total fresh water withdrawal and maintaining a 
water recycling rate of approximately 96% in fiscal 2021. 
Our metal shredding operations are also significant users 
of water, representing 31% of total fresh water withdrawal 
in fiscal 2021. Water recycling rates and capabilities for 
our metal shredding operations are influenced by various 
factors, such as (i) weather-related events (i.e., floods, 
hurricanes, storms, wildfires, heat waves, and droughts), (ii) 
regulatory compliance requirements regarding control and 
treatment of wastewater and stormwater, and (iii) existing 
infrastructure, conveyance and storage equipment, and 
control technologies for practicable collection and reuse  
of water.

The percentage of total fresh water resources indirectly 
withdrawn from areas characterized to have high or 
extremely high baseline water stress remains unchanged  
at approximately 2%. Our operations source water from  
(1) third-party purchased municipal water sources and (2) 
onsite well extracted renewable groundwater sources. 
Approximately 20% of our sites purchase water from 
municipalities that operate in geographic areas 
characterized to have high or extremely high baseline 
water stress. At this time, water availability directly linked 
to the respective geographic locations of our operations is 
not believed to be of significant concern as water is not a 
direct, raw material input of our products, and our water 
uses in operations are limited in scope to predominately 
cooling in steelmaking and metal shredding production 
processes, emergency response fire suppression, 
emissions control, dust suppression, and to lesser extent, 
landscaping irrigation, human sanitation and consumption.

Waste Management

Amount of waste 
generated

Percentage 
hazardous

Percentage 
recycled

Quantitative

Metric tons  
(t), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-150a.1

Workforce Health & Safety

(1) Total recordable 
incident rate 
(TRIR) for full-time 
employees

In fiscal 2021, we experienced a decrease in total waste 
generated compared to our base year as a result of (i) 
greater stakeholder engagement with our providers of 
waste services and (ii) greater employee training on proper 
waste classification, handling, storage, and management. 
We have obtained external assurance, by S&P Global 
Market Intelligence in accordance with AA1000AS Type 
2 moderate-level assurance, for 100% site coverage and 
sources of waste generated. 

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

In fiscal 2021, our TRIR fell 39% and our NMFR fell 81% 
against our base year. Our fatality rate remains 0%. 

To learn more please review our 2021 Sustainability Report.

704,637

<1%

90%

1.71

0

15.27

Quantitative

Rate

EM-IS-320a.1

Not applicable. We do not report on rates exclusive to “contract 
employees.”

(2) Fatality rate 
for full-time 
employees

(3) Near miss 
frequency rate 
(NMFR) for full-
time employees

(1) TRIR for 
contract 
employees

(2) Fatality rate 
for contract 
employees

(3) NMFR 
for contract 
employees

Supply Chain Management

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

Discussion of 
the process for 
managing iron 
ore and/or coking 
coal sourcing 
risks arising from 
environmental and 
social issues

EM-IS-430a.1 Not applicable. A process for managing iron ore and/or coking coal sourcing 

risks is not necessary because we do not consume iron ore or coking coal. 
Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap for use in EAF 
steelmaking is estimated to conserve 2,425 pounds of iron ore and 1,389 
pounds of coal. Therefore, by extension our operations supported the 
conservation of more than 10.8 billion pounds of iron ore and 6.2 billion 
pounds of coal in fiscal 2021. Additionally, we produce three valuable 
coproducts: millscale, baghouse dust, and slag. Millscale functions as a 
metallurgical input to steelmaking, supporting the avoidance of iron ore 
production and conservation of raw iron ore, while baghouse dust avoids 
zinc production, and slag avoids cement and gravel production.

In regards to any existing or projected risks or constraints in obtaining 
other raw materials, we believe we operate the only mini-mill in the 
Western U.S. that obtains the majority of its scrap metal feedstock from an 
integrated metals recycling operation. Our metals recycling operations 
provide our steel mill with a mix of recycled metal grades, which allows 
the mill to achieve optimum efficiency in its melting operations. Although 
the synergies from our integrated operations allow us to be our own 
source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to scrap metal for 
our steel manufacturing operations, we rely on third-party suppliers for 
other input needs, including inputs to steel production such as graphite 
electrodes, alloys, and other required consumables.

96

97

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAPPENDIXTHIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Feedback on this Sustainability Report 
and stakeholder engagement inquiries can 
be sent to sustainability@schn.com

98

SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.299 SW CLAY STREET, SUITE 350
PORTLAND, OR 97201
SCHNITZERSTEEL.COM

