RESOURCEFUL

RESPONSIBLE

RESILIENT

FISCAL 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

RECYCLING TODAY FOR A SUSTAINABLE TOMORROW.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  1

RESOURCEFUL

For more than 100 years, Schnitzer has 

recycled ferrous and non-ferrous scrap 

metal—steel, aluminum, copper, and brass, 

among others—creating value from materials 

that others might consider obsolete. 

Extending the life of critical assets like metals 

that might otherwise end up in landfills is 

the very essence of being resourceful and 

provides sustainable solutions in todayʼs 

resource-constrained world.

Photography shown throughout the report was taken both before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  2
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  2

RESPONSIBLE

Schnitzer has a proud legacy as a responsible 

business, balancing the needs of people, 

planet, and profit. We promote an inclusive, 

empowering workplace that takes care of our 

employees and supports the communities in 

which we operate. And, we make thoughtful 

business decisions that deliver long-term 

value for our shareholders.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  3
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  3

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  3

RESILIENT

Recycled metals not only help extend the life 

of limited resources but also help meet future 

global challenges. As economies around the 

world transition to low-carbon ones, metal 

intensity is projected to increase. Demand 

will grow for  electric vehicles, solar and wind 

energy, and infrastructure needed for “smart 

cities.” By supplying a high-quality stream of 

recycled metal inputs, Schnitzer is proud to 

help make the world more resilient.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  4
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  4

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  4

RESOURCEFUL
RESPONSIBLE
RESILIENT

For over 100 years, from the Great Depression to the Great 

Recession to the COVID-19 pandemic, these qualities ensure that 

Schnitzer always steps up to do what is right to serve our people, our 

customers and suppliers, our shareholders, our communities, and our 

world. We are proud of how our 3,000-member team has delivered 

in extraordinary ways to manage through extraordinary times. This 

yearʼs report chronicles our journey.

Company .......... 6

Operations ........ 31

Community ....... 60

Business ........... 21

Workplace ......... 41

Appendix .......... 69

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  5
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  5

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  5

RESILIENT
COMPANY

CEO Message ................................................... 7

Our Business Value ............................................ 9

Corporate Profile ............................................... 10

CSO Message ................................................... 12

Sustainability at Schnitzer ................................... 13

Reporting Practices & Materiality ......................... 16

Industry Engagement ......................................... 18 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  6

CEO Message
Just over a year ago, I signed Business 
Roundtableʼs Statement on the 
Purpose of a Corporation, which has 
served as a guiding commitment for 
Schnitzer to create a lasting positive 
impact for our people, customers, 
suppliers, and communities, while 
continuing to deliver long-term value  
to our shareholders.

Tamara L. Lundgren, Chairman, President, and CEO

In fiscal 2020, this commitment was tested in ways we never could have imagined. Whether dealing with the 
effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, working to improve our struggling economy, or finding ways to address 
systemic racism, weʼve all grappled with how to make sense of our current state and how to move forward.

Schnitzer has operated continuously throughout the COVID-19 crisis. All of our operating facilities were identified 
as essential businesses, reflecting our Companyʼs vital role in supplying raw materials and finished steel products 
for construction of critical infrastructure. To ensure the safety of those who worked at or visited our sites, we 
deployed health, safety, and wellness protocols, rolled out training, and engaged in effective communications 
across our Company. While implementing these new work protocols, our team did not lose focus on operational 
safety. Our recordable incident rate in fiscal 2020 was the lowest and best rate recorded in our Companyʼs history 
and follows fiscal 2019, which was our previous best.

At the beginning of fiscal 2021, we completed the transition to our new “One Schnitzer” functionally-based 
and integrated operating model that we announced in April 2020. This is the culmination of our evolution to 
a more resilient and agile organization that will align with and further strengthen our sustainable business 
model—through which we transform salvaged material into inputs for new products. It will also improve our 
operational efficiency and enable greater focus on the critical drivers of our business, including innovative 
products and services that will help companies increase the sustainability of their own supply chains and 
reduce their carbon footprints.

Our One Schnitzer model is led by strong leaders and rising talent throughout all levels of our organization. 
And, we have a robust strategic plan centered around our sustainability framework of People, Planet, and 
Profit. Our People strategy includes three main focus areas: (i) continuing to improve our safety performance; 
(ii) strengthening our culture through increasing diversity and inclusion and expanding employee engagement; 
and (iii) giving back to the communities in which we operate through programs like our Volunteer Time Off 
(VTO) program.

Our Planet strategy is also centered on three critical areas: (i) progressing on our goals of reducing absolute 
greenhouse gas emissions from our recycling operations, (ii) increasing our use of carbon-free electricity; and 
(iii) continuing our investments in technologies that enable us to extract more recyclables from the material that 
we process that would otherwise be sent to landfills.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  7

RESILIENT COMPANYCEO Message continued

And, our Profit strategy is built upon three strategic pillars: (i) growing our volumes to leverage our existing 
processing capacity, (ii) expanding our margins through the successful deployment of advanced metal 
recovery technology, and (iii) developing new products and services to complement our core recycling and 
auto parts businesses.

Our operating and financial results in fiscal 2020 reflected the agility of our team, the strength of our culture, 
and the resiliency of our operating platform. We pivoted quickly to accommodate the changes needed for our 
Company to continue to operate safely and effectively in a volatile market. We kept our focus on optimizing 
our sales, aligning our operating costs with supply and production volumes, and moving ahead with our 
strategic investments.

There is no playbook for a year like this past one, but there certainly is a legacy at our Company of 
facing challenges head-on and successfully navigating through the toughest of times. Schnitzer and our 
stakeholders are meeting the challenges of our time because of several key strengths we have developed 
over the years. In our fiscal 2020 Sustainability Report, we share the importance of each of these strengths—
not only for today, but also for the future. 

In countries around the world, the long-term demand for ferrous and non-ferrous recycled metals is underpinned 
by several trends that are gaining increasing importance and relevance. Low-carbon economies are widely 
acknowledged as more metal-intensive economies. As countries transition to lower-carbon economies and as the 
number of electric arc furnace (EAF) steel mills operating in both the U.S. and Asia continue to grow, the need for 
metals, especially recycled metals, is expected to increase for many years to come.

Schnitzer is well-positioned to be a part of this more sustainable future, and we intend to continue to fulfill  
our commitment to support all our stakeholders.

Tamara L. Lundgren 
Chairman, President, and CEO, Schnitzer

“There is no playbook for a year like this 
past one, but there certainly is a legacy 
at our Company of facing challenges 
head-on and successfully navigating 
through the toughest of times.”

Tamara L. Lundgren 

Chairman, President, and CEO, Schnitzer

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  8

RESILIENT COMPANYOur Business Value 

Without metals recycling, many product life cycles, in industries 
such as construction and automotive, take resources from the 
cradle to the grave. In such cases the product life cycle begins 
with extraction, where virgin ore is mined from the earth. The 
ore is then manufactured into new products, and products are 
distributed, sold, and put to use. 

Thanks to companies like Schnitzer, fewer non-renewable resources are needed.  
Salvaged materials stay out of landfills and instead become inputs for new products.  
Each of our businesses contributes to our cradle-to-cradle business model.

METALS PROCESSING

Over 40 metals 
recycling facilities

AUTO DISMANTLING

END OF CURRENT USE

Over 50 auto parts 
retail outlets

DISTRIBUTION

Global transportation
network with 7 
deep water ports

CUSTOMER USE

PARTS RE-USE

A

Company

TM

Used auto parts 
and steel specialty 
products

STEEL MANUFACTURING

Our state-of-the-art
electric arc furnace
steel mill 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  9

RESILIENT COMPANYCorporate Profile

Public for

NASDAQ

In Operation

27 Years

SCHN

114 Years

Headquarters

Our Products Are Sold to Customers in

PORTLAND 
OREGON

29 countries 
across 
5 continents

Fiscal 2020 
Revenue 

$1.71 billion

Operating Facilities

96
7 Deep-Water Ports
6 Large-Scale Shredders
1 Steel Mill

3,032

Employees*

*Based in the U.S., including Puerto Rico, and Western Canada

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  10

RESILIENT COMPANYCorporate Profile continued

Our Core Values

Sustainability

Safety

Integrity

What We Do

Auto Dismantling & Auto Parts Recovery

Through our Pick-n-Pull brand, we operate an 
industry-leading chain of 50 self-service used auto 
parts stores providing affordable auto parts to retail 
and wholesale customers. These stores purchased 
over 316,000 end-of-life vehicles in fiscal 2020. 
For over 30 years, Pick-n-Pull has offered quality 
auto parts for a wide variety of makes and models of 
domestic and foreign cars, vans, and light trucks. After 
vehicle parts are extracted for resale, remaining auto 
bodies are crushed and transported to Schnitzerʼs 
metals recycling facilities, or to other metals recycling 
facilities within North America, to undergo shredding 
and sorting processes to recover the ferrous and 
non-ferrous metal content of the vehicles.

Metals Recycling

As one of North Americaʼs largest recyclers of 
scrap metal, Schnitzerʼs metals recycling facilities 
acquire, process, and recycle ferrous and non- 
ferrous metal. Our strategically located facilities 
on both the east and west coasts of North America, 
Hawaii, and Puerto Rico efficiently source and 
deliver recycled metals to mills and foundries 

around the world. Direct access to rail, major 
highways, and deep-water export terminals creates 
a competitive advantage and allows us to transport 
products in a cost-effective and energy-efficient 
manner. Strategic capital investments in facility 
infrastructure, equipment, and advanced metal 
recovery technologies deliver recycling solutions 
and provide high-quality scrap metal processing. 
We are increasingly offering recycling solutions to 
manufacturers and retailers that match our recycling 
services to their needs.

Steel Manufacturing

At our state-of-the-art electric arc furnace 
mini-mill, we melt and shape recycled metal 
into rebar, coiled rebar, wire rod, merchant bar, 
and other specialty products, which are used by 
manufacturers to produce a variety of products 
and to reinforce concrete in highways, bridges, 
buildings, and more. Our steel manufacturing 
operation, Cascade Steel, obtains the majority 
of its scrap metal feedstock from our own metals 
recycling operations. Cascade Steel sells its 
products to customers primarily located in 
the western U.S. and Canada from its mill in 
McMinnville, Oregon. 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  11

RESILIENT COMPANYResilient As  
Never Before

The COVID-19 pandemic has tested 
businesses in countless ways. Despite the 
challenges of the past year, Schnitzerʼs 
performance against our ambitious 
sustainability goals remains strong. 

For some time now, we have been focused on 
a sustainability strategy that not only delivers 
profitability, but also positively impacts our 
employees, communities, and the environment. 
This strategy has served us well in a year when so 
much is being asked of businesses beyond normal 
expectations. In fiscal 2019, we announced our first 
set of sustainability goals. While the pandemic has 
presented our Company with historic challenges, we 
are proud of what we have been able to accomplish.

New emissions controls at our shredder operations 
helped us work toward meeting our ambitious air 
emissions reduction goal. In addition, we exceeded 
our 90 percent carbon-free electricity goal well before 
our target date of fiscal 2025. That said, our Company 
aspires to do more. We are proud to announce in 
our fiscal 2020 Sustainability Report that we are now 
targeting 100 percent net carbon-free electricity  
use by the end of fiscal 2022.  

While environmental and workforce protection 
have always been closely linked, in fiscal 2020 we 
integrated our environmental operations with our  
health and safety organizations, now overseen by  
one Vice President. This allows for greater sharing 
of best practices to improve both operational 
environmental and safety performance. In fiscal 

Brian Lewallen, Assistant General Counsel, Chief Sustainability Officer & 
Assistant General Counsel 

2020, Schnitzer achieved the lowest reportable 
incident rate in our history with a Total Case Incident 
Rate (TCIR) of 1.91, and our continued commitment 
to our safety strategy will get us even closer to our 
2025 TCIR target of 1.00 in the years ahead.

Also, in January 2020, we launched our Volunteer 
Time Off program to support our goal of donating 
at least 10,000 hours of paid time off by the end of 
fiscal 2025 to positively impact charitable causes 
related to education, the environment, hunger, and 
veterans. While the COVID-19 pandemic limited our 
in-person volunteer opportunities, we didnʼt stop 
giving back. During this crisis, we procured and 
donated thousands of face masks to local hospitals, 
led successful contact-free food drives with the 
support of our customers, undertook Company-wide 
blood drives, and made cash donations to food banks 
and the American Red Cross.

In the face of adversity, our dedication to operating 
in accordance with our Core Values of Sustainability, 
Safety, and Integrity is stronger than ever. In the 
midst of a global pandemic, the likes of which the 
world has not seen in at least a century, our resilient 
business, operations, and employees have delivered 
like never before.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  12

RESILIENT COMPANYSustainability Goals 
Our sustainability goals are focused on People, Planet, and Profit,  
and aligned with Schnitzerʼs long-term business success.

They are also aligned with the issues that matter to our stakeholders, as detailed in our 
Sustainability Materiality Assessment. 

In fiscal 2019, Schnitzer established its first holistic set of enterprise-wide sustainability goals—
focused on People, Planet, and Profit. Even considering the diversity of challenges we faced in fiscal 
2020 due to the pandemic, we made significant progress toward meeting these ambitious goals.  
For example, Schnitzer exceeded its 90 percent carbon-free electricity goal in fiscal 2020, well 
before our target date of fiscal 2025. Accordingly, we aimed even higher, and are now targeting  
100 percent net carbon-free electricity use by the end of fiscal 2022. 

People

Safety

Volunteerism

Goal

Fiscal 2020 Progress

Achieve a 1.00 total case incident  
rate by end of fiscal 2025 

1.91 total case incident rate, a 
32% improvement in fiscal 2020

Donate at least 10,000 hours of 
paid volunteerism time off (VTO) 
by end of fiscal 2025

116 VTO hours donated, as 
progress was impacted by 
COVID-19 restrictions

Planet

Goal

Fiscal 2020 Progress

Emissions
(direct emissions or 
Scope 1)

Reduce absolute GHG emissions from 
recycling operations by 25% by end of 
fiscal 2025

15% reduction of GHG 
emissions from recycling 
operations in fiscal 2020

Carbon-free 
Electricity Use
(indirect emissions or 
Scope 2)

Profit

Growth

Achieve and maintain at least 90% 
carbon-free electricity use by end  
of fiscal 2025
Updated goal: Achieve 100% net 
carbon-free electricity use by end  
of fiscal 2022

Goal

Achieve a profitability improvement 
target of $15/ton using sustainability-
based initiatives*

We exceeded our initial goal 
early with 93% carbon-free 
electricity use in fiscal 2020

*Targets based on a fiscal 2019 baseline: $8/ton from new advanced metal recovery technology by end of fiscal 
2021. $7/ton from ferrous volume growth to 5 million tons by end of fiscal 2023.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  13

RESILIENT COMPANYSustainability Principles

Improving our sustainability performance requires important contributions from 
every Schnitzer employee. We make our Core Value of Sustainability tangible 
and actionable for our workforce through our Sustainability Principles. These 
principles connect with the holistic, triple-bottom-line concept of sustainability, 
which includes People, Planet, and Profit. Each Principle has an action statement 
that helps employees put sustainability into action through their daily work.

Eliminate Waste

Continuous Improvement

Technology & Innovation

Working with Purpose

We create sustainable value 
through safety improvement 
and operational efficiency.

We continuously explore and 
pursue practices that promote 
sustainable operations.

We embrace the sustainable 
benefits of technology and 
innovation.

We are committed to positively 
impacting our communities 
and supporting a diverse and 
inclusive workplace.

Waste can include wasted 
time and productivity, as well 
as wasted materials sent to 
landfills. We put the Eliminate 
Waste principle into action 
when we:

  Improve safety 
performance

  Increase operational 

efficiency

  Invest in technologies and 
service offerings that allow 
us to send less material to 
landfills

  Participate in office and 

facility recycling efforts and 
community environmental 
clean-up projects

The journey to becoming a 
more sustainable company 
has no endpoint. We put the 
Continuous Improvement 
principle into action when we:

  Identify new opportunities 
to reduce air and GHG 
emissions 

  Identify opportunities for 
water reuse or recovery, 
including storm, waste, 
and process water 
recycling

  Identify opportunities to 
improve scrap quality to 
increase market access 
and market share

  Develop new processes 
and controls to improve 
the safety of our workplace 
environment

Sustainable technology  
and innovation protect our 
environment and the 
communities where we work 
and live. We put the 
Technology & Innovation 
principle into action when we:

Creating a purposeful workplace 
environment benefits not 
only our employees, but also 
customers, investors, and 
communities. We put the  
Working with Purpose principle 
into action when we:

  Implement new 

  Support a workforce 

technologies such as 
advanced metals recovery 
technology systems

  Construct environmental 
control systems to benefit 
local community air and 
water quality

  Deploy technologies and 
equipment to significantly 
reduce GHG emissions

  Explore the implications of 
a changing metals stream, 
such as an increase in 
electric vehicles 

culture where everyone is 
treated with respect and 
fairness, and given equal 
opportunity to reach their 
full career potential

  Work to address the 

unconscious biases that 
affect the way we relate  
to one another

  Safeguard our employeesʼ 
health and well-being 
including  during challenging 
circumstances like the 
COVID-19 pandemic

  Positively impact 

communities through 
volunteerism and 
charitable giving

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  14

RESILIENT COMPANYSustainability Governance
Sustainability is integrated into Schnitzerʼs 
corporate governance and organizational 
structure, and we measure progress across  
a range of metrics.

Our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) reports directly to the CEO and 
provides regular updates to our Board of Directors, who oversee 
our sustainability strategy and execution. The CSO analyzes, builds 
consensus for, and manages sustainability-related initiatives, 
projects, and goals that are supported by executive-level 
leadership and are visible throughout the organization.

ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH &
SAFETY

FINANCE &
ACCOUNTING

PEOPLE
MANAGEMENT

INTERNAL
AUDIT

SUPPLIER
RELATIONS

OPERATIONS

ETHICS &
COMPLIANCE

TECHNOLOGY 
& INNOVATION

PRODUCTS 
& SERVICES

EXTERNAL
AFFAIRS

Schnitzer also has a Sustainability Leadership Group who collaborate on the development and deployment of 
sustainable and socially responsible business practices. This cross-functional team engages leaders across 
business lines, geographic regions, and job functions. The group seeks to mobilize our workforce to apply 
environmental and social considerations to operational decisions and planned product and service changes, 
support our culture of ethical behavior, and lead other stakeholder engagement events such as community 
food bank drives, natural disaster relief response, and environmental stewardship activities.

Sustainability Governance 
at Schnitzer

CHAIRMAN & CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Chief 
Sustainability Officer

Chief Financial Officer & 
Chief Strategy Officer

President 
of Operations

Chief 
Diversity Officer

President of 
Products & Services

Chief Human 
Resources Officer

General 
Counsel

Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer*

*CECO has a reporting line to 
the Audit Committee of the 

Board of Directors

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  15

PURCHASING

LEGAL

PUBLIC 

RELATIONS

RESILIENT COMPANYSustainability Leadership GroupReporting Practices & Materiality

This is Schnitzerʼs seventh Sustainability Report, covering fiscal 
2020, which ended August 31, 2020. It includes complete coverage 
of relevant updates and metrics across all our operations.

At the beginning of our fiscal 2021, Schnitzer 
completed the transition to a new operating model, 
and now reports a single set of financial results. We 
have reported our sustainability results to align with 
this new operating model.

Since 2014, we have engaged Trucost (part of 
S&P Global) to provide assurance of selected 
environmental Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs), including greenhouse gas emissions, 
energy consumption, water withdrawal, and waste 
generated. Trucost undertook this assurance 
in accordance with AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 
moderate-level assurance.

Circumstances may arise in which reconciliation 
of data from previous sustainability reports is 
appropriate. For example, this may be due to, 
among other things, reconciliation of source data, 
updates in conversion factors, internal methodology 
changes, or changes in overall reporting scope.

Reconciliations promote the transparency of our 
reporting and enable a more accurate assessment 
of Schnitzerʼs progress on our KPIs. Even though 
the reconciliations do not significantly impact 
our historic sustainability performance, by 
retrospectively updating previous figures, we expect 
to improve the year-over-year comparability of our 
data. Throughout our report, any reconciliations of 
previous-year data will be noted.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  16

RESILIENT COMPANYReporting Practices & Materiality continued

Materiality

Other Non-Financial Disclosures

As a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) over the past four years, Schnitzer is 
committed to voluntary disclosures of relevant climate 
change and water security-related information on 
our governance, risks and opportunities, business 
strategy, targets and performance, GHG emissions, 
energy use, water consumption, and stakeholder 
engagement. In 2019, we received CDP scores of 
B (Climate), A- (Water Security), and A- (Supplier 
Engagement). In 2020, Schnitzer elevated its scores 
to an A- for Climate, and became a distinguished 
member of CDPʼs A List for Water Security. As a 
further benefit, responses to the CDP questionnaires 
align with the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). 

We are also participants in the Corporate Sustainability 
Assessment (CSA) for the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI), administered by S&P Global. In the 2020 
CSA we ranked ninth overall among global participants 
within our sector/industry classification. Additionally, 
Schnitzer received an MSCI ESG Rating of AA and 
earned an ISS Corporate rating of “ESG Prime,” with 
a “Very Transparent” recognition.

Additionally, Schnitzer reports on relevant metrics 
developed by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) for our Primary SICS Sector 
(Extractives & Minerals Processing) and Primary 
SICS Industry (Iron & Steel Producers).

In 2018, we conducted a Sustainability Materiality 
Assessment (SMA) to identify, analyze, and act on 
environmental, social, and economic dimensions 
that may have significant impacts on Schnitzer 
and our stakeholders. Our key stakeholder groups 
include current and future employees, shareholders, 
regulators, local communities, customers, suppliers, 
and relevant non-profit associations. Combining 
surveys, meetings, a review of publicly available 
information regarding our industry sector, and internal 
stakeholder interviews, we assessed the importance 
of various sustainability-related issues to Schnitzer 
and its stakeholders. We plan to refresh our 2018  
SMA in fiscal 2021.

Results of the 2018 SMA were averaged and plotted 
to identify the relative importance of each issue. 
The insights gained from our SMA help guide our 
sustainability strategy and communications, including 
this Sustainability Report, and our sustainability goals. 
As part of the fiscal 2021 refresh, we intend to realign 
our SMA with our new One Schnitzer operating model 
and progress made over the past three years.

Our top issues are:

  Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity

  Occupational health and safety

  Economic performance

  Anticorruption

  Supporting and engaging local communities

  Environmental compliance

  Career development and job security

  Compliance with competition laws

  Energy consumption and reduction

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  17

RESILIENT COMPANYIndustry Engagement

We are an active member of a number of organizations and 
associations for the recycling and steel manufacturing industries. 
Schnitzer holds leadership roles in several of these organizations.

30+

LEGACY
MEMBER

Our involvement allows us to learn and share best 
practices with our peers, as well as to develop 
and shape common sense policies that protect the 
environment while promoting sustainable business 
models. Our Director of Governmental & Public Affairs 
currently serves as national secretary and treasurer of 
the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI), and 
other employees hold leadership positions at national,  
regional, and local chapter levels.

We are proud to serve in leadership roles, maintain 
general membership and representation with:

  Alberta Automotive Recyclers & Dismantlers 

Association

  American Association of State Highway & 

Transportation Officials (AASHTO)

  American Wire Producers Association (AWPA)

  Automotive Recyclers Association (ARA)

  Automotive Retailers Association

  Bureau of International Recycling (BIR)

  Business Roundtable (BR)

  California Auto Dismantlers Association

  California Manufacturers & Technology 

Association (CMTA)

  California Metals Coalition

  Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute (CRSI)

  Environmental Business Council of New England 

(EBC)

  General Contractors Association of Hawaii

  Georgia Recyclers Association

  Georgia Recycling Coalition

  Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI)

  International Longshoreman Association

  Maritime Fire and Safety Association

  Mystic River Watershed Association

  National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)

  National Freight Transportation Association 

(NFTA)

  National Tooling and Machine Association, San 

Francisco Bay Area Chapter

  Oregon Business & Industry Association (OBI)

  Oregon Refuse and Recycling Association

  Orting City Council

  Pacific Merchant Shipping Association

  Portland Business Alliance

  Propeller Club of the U.S.

  Reverse Logistics Association

  Rhode Island Trucking Association

  Canadian Association of Recycling Industries 

  Scrap Recyclers Association of Alabama

(CARI-ACIR)

  Steel Manufacturers Association (SMA)

  Coast Waste Management Association (CWMA)

  Washington Refuse and Recycling Association

  Columbia Corridor Association (CCA)

  Washington Trucking Association (WTA)

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  18

RESILIENT COMPANYIndustry Engagement continued

National ISRI Officer

  Vice Chairman and Legislative Chair/ Board Member for the New England Chapter

ISRI Councils (Chapters and Consumers)

  West Coast Chapter President

  New England Chapter Vice President

  Southeast Chapter Director-at-Large

  Pacific Northwest Chapter Legislative Vice Chair for Washington / Board Member

  Materials Theft, Trade, Shredder, Community Engagement, Automobile Recycling Committee

  Trade, RIOS Board Member

Chambers of Commerce

Involvement in the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and local chambers of commerce is another 
important way for our locations to stay attuned to the needs of our communities. In addition to 
involvement at a federal level, Schnitzer is actively involved at state and local levels as well. This 
participation was particularly valuable during the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, our Director of 
Governmental & Public Affairs, who serves as President of the Everett, Massachusetts Chamber 
of Commerce, was the lead spokesperson for small business loan programs and helped guide the 
cityʼs reopening plans. 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  19

RESILIENT COMPANYIndustry Engagement continued

Port Authorities

Schnitzer also engages with local port authorities and marine terminals on matters of local air 
quality and recycling efforts; energy usage and emissions; water and sediment quality; truck and rail 
transportation and logistics; and barge, container ship, and bulk cargo vessel transportation and 
logistics. Many port authorities and terminals that we work with, including the Port of Nanaimo, Port 
of Vancouver, Northwest Seaport Alliance, Kalealoa Harbor, Port of Tacoma, Port of Oakland, Port 
Metro Vancouver, and ProvPort, have sustainability programs, initiatives, and master plans, and 
some have obtained Green Marine or similar certifications.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  20

RESILIENT COMPANYRESILIENT
BUSINESS

Overview ................................................................. 22

Auto Dismantling & Auto Parts Recovery ........................ 25

Metals Recycling ....................................................... 27 

Steel Manufacturing .................................................. 30

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  21

OUR BUSINESS

The modern world was built with steel and other metals. Consider 
the buildings and infrastructure that make our way of life possible: 
bridges, highways, railroads, factories, skyscrapers, and more. All 
depend on strong, resilient steel, an iron alloy forged with carbon 
to increase its strength. Known for its toughness, durability, and 
corrosion resistance, steel is one of the worldʼs most valuable and 
versatile manufactured materials. 

But while steel helped build the structures of yesterday, the risks of climate change today require 
that we rethink vital industries like energy, transportation, and building construction. Transition to 
the low-carbon economy of the future—one in which we rely less on fossil fuels and products made 
from virgin materials and more on renewable sources of energy, electric vehicles, and “smart cities” 
built with recycled materials—is widely acknowledged to be more metal-intensive than in the past.

Through our resourcefulness and resilience, Schnitzer is fulfilling its responsibility to rise to 
the challenges faced by our transitioning world. Schnitzerʼs steel mill operates an electric arc 
furnace (EAF), which uses scrap steel as its primary raw material. Recycling scrap steel offers 
many environmental benefits compared with the use of virgin iron ore in steel manufacturing. 
Besides being more energy-, emissions-, and water-efficient, recycling scrap plays a fundamental 
role in keeping metal out of landfills—allowing yesterdayʼs scrap metal to become tomorrowʼs 
infrastructure. Almost all the scrap steel used at our steel mill is obtained from one of our metal 
recycling facilities.

Helping BART Refresh Its Fleet 

The Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system is decommissioning some of 
its oldest train cars, which have been in use since 1973. The retired cars 
went to Schnitzerʼs Oakland metals facility, where each was dismantled 
into approximately six tons of aluminum, one ton of copper, and 15 tons of 
steel. These materials will support future infrastructure and transportation 
projects—while allowing BART to transition to a new, more sustainable fleet.  

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  22

RESILIENT BUSINESSOur Business continued

Also, as more EAFs begin operating around the world, 
demand for recycled metals will increase as well. 
Schnitzerʼs business can help meet that demand, 
making the future even more sustainable.

We are further strengthening our business model— 
and our sustainable impact—by investing in 
technologies and processes to increase our recovery 
of non-ferrous metals that typically are contained in 
vehicles and heavy appliances. Non-ferrous metals 
include aluminum, copper, nickel, brass, titanium, 

stainless steel, and high-temperature alloys, as well 
as rare earth metals such as platinum, palladium, 
and rhodium. These metals are critical resources for 
a low-carbon future, supporting the manufacturing 
of electric vehicles, consumer electronics and 
appliances, and other more sustainable technologies. 
We are also expanding our recycling services and 
offering new recycling solutions to help customers 
meet their sustainability goals and maximize value 
from excess materials, including packaging and 
obsolete goods.

End-of-Life Vehicles Purchased   
(Thousands) 

Finished Steel Products Sold  
(Thousand short tons) 

411

424

386

316

319

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Ferrous Scrap Sold 
(Million long tons) 

3.29

3.63

4.29

4.32

3.95

0
8

0
7

0
6

0
5

0
4

0
3

0
2

0
1

0

0
8

0
7

0
6

0
5

0
4

0
3

0
2

0
1

0

488

496

519

478

505

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Non-Ferrous Scrap Sold 
(Millions of pounds) 

585

510

636

667

551

0
8

0
7

0
6

0
5

0
4

0
3

0
2

0
1

0

0
8

0
7

0
6

0
5

0
4

0
3

0
2

0
1

0

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  23

RESILIENT BUSINESSOur Business continued

As one of North Americaʼs largest recyclers 
of scrap metal, dismantlers of end-of-life 
vehicles, sellers of recycled auto parts, and 
manufacturers of finished steel products  
from recycled scrap, our role is to separate 
valuable materials into their component parts  
so that they can be reused or remade into 
 new products.

Our strategically located facilities on the east 
and west coasts of North America, Hawaii, 
and Puerto Rico enable efficient sourcing 
and delivery of recycled metals to mills and 
foundries around the world for use in new  
metal product manufacturing. 

While we play a vital part in the global 
economy, we are also proud of being a good 
neighbor in the communities in which we 
operate. With operations in 23 states and over 
100 communities across the U.S. (including 
Puerto Rico) and Western Canada, Schnitzer 
also plays a prominent role as job creator, 
economic leader, and environmental steward.

In fiscal 2020, our direct and indirect 
contributions included:

in taxes generated

U.S. jobs supported

16,400
$399M
$1.0B
$3.4B
12.7M

total economic impact*

in wages earned

metric tons of CO2e emissions avoided**
**  Based on ISRI economic impact data and our fiscal 2020 production volumes.

**The equivalent energy conserved to power 1.3 million homes per year.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  24

RESILIENT BUSINESSAuto Dismantling & 
Auto Parts Recovery

Vehicles that are no longer road- 
worthy can still possess significant 
value. Individual components can be 
remanufactured, transferred to other 
vehicles, or made into new products— 
in other words, an end-of-life vehicle 
is much more than the sum of its parts. 

Schnitzerʼs Pick-n-Pull brand, an industry-leading 
chain of self-service used auto parts stores, provides 
affordable auto parts to more than 4.5 million 
customers annually. End-of-life vehicles are salvaged 
from a variety of sources, including municipalities 
and dealers, as well as streets and yards where they 
have been abandoned and would otherwise threaten 
the environment and public safety. Expert handling of 
fluids and other by-products via reclamation and 
recovery ensures responsible management of these 
materials. And, we process the ferrous and non-
ferrous metals that remain, once customers have 
removed wanted parts or purchased other items such 
as tires and batteries, thereby creating new value and 
avoiding disposal in landfills. 

How Pick-n-Pull Gets the Most Out of End-of-Life Vehicles

Pick-n-Pull finds a safe, environmentally friendly purpose for nearly every component 
found in the vehicles we receive. Here are some of the vehicle parts we handle:

Transmissions, wires, 
alternators, pumps, and 
other mechanical components
Resold, refurbished, or else recycled. 

Refrigerant gas, hydraulic fluids, 
and washer fluids 
Extracted into proper storage containers 
to prevent release into the environment, 
then responsibly recovered or disposed. 

Tires, headlights, bumpers, mirrors, 
windows, seats, and other useful parts 
Picked, pulled, and purchased by our 
self-serve customers. 

Other recyclables and leftover items 
Plastic bottles, aluminum cans, 
paper/cardboard, consumer electronics, and 
other household products and chemicals are 
collected and sorted for either resale, 
recycling, or responsible disposal.

Catalytic converters
Recovery of platinum group metals (PGMs).

Batteries
All types (lead-acid, lithium ion, and 
nickel metal hydride) are removed and 
tested, then resold, refurbished, or 
recycled for metal and plastic component 
recovery, depending on their condition. 

Gasoline and diesel fuels, 
motor oil, and coolants
Drained into holding tanks with 
secondary containment to prevent 
release into the environment, then 
recycled for energy recovery, 
refining, and reuse. 

Vehicle bodies
Crushed in one of our on-site crushers, 
then sent to a metals recycling facility.  

Mercury switches 
Removed as an important safety precaution 
before vehicles are sent to recycling facilities.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  25

RESILIENT BUSINESSAuto Dismantling & Auto Parts Recovery continued

individual mercury-containing devices from the scrap 
metal stream, equating to almost 1 metric ton of 
mercury. Removing switches early on helps ensure 
product quality, occupational safety, public health, 
and environmental protection.

In addition to dismantling vehicles for sale at Pick-n-
Pull stores, Schnitzer offers secure vehicle component 
destruction and recycling for customers who want to 
ensure protection of proprietary parts and technology. 
We tailor our approach to the needs of each customer, 
providing enhanced documentation of the destruction 
and recycling process to safeguard against product 
and environmental liabilities.

Preventing release of potentially hazardous materials 
is an important part of the auto dismantling process. 
For example, some refrigerants recovered from 
older vehicles we receive may possess ozone-
depleting properties or have high GHG potential. 
We typically reclaim more than 100,000 pounds of 
refrigerants from vehicles every year. Ensuring 
safe recovery and processing of these materials 
prevents harmful substances from entering the 
atmosphere and allows our recovery partners to 
generate valuable carbon credits. We also remove 
mercury switches used in the engine compartment 
and trunk. Beyond preventing the release of toxic 
chemicals, the removal of mercury switches is an 
example of how Schnitzerʼs operations complement 
one another. Since 2006, through U.S. and Canadian 
national recycling programs and partnerships, we 
have responsibly and safely removed almost 1 million 

Dismantling By-products in Fiscal 2020

9.9M+ 

pounds of batteries

200K+ 

gallons of coolant

1.6M+

gallons of gasoline

8.1M+

pounds of tires recovered

Creating Satisfied Customers 

Pick-n-Pull uses the Net Promoter Score metric, 
which we refer to as the Pick-n-Pull Customer 
Service Score, to measure customer satisfaction. 
For the past several years, nearly three-quarters 
of customers have said they would recommend our 
stores to their friends and family. We also have a 
Customer Service Pro Program through which  
we reward employees for outstanding customer 
service. Since the programʼs inception, hundreds  
of Pick-n-Pull employees have been recognized, 
often multiple times by different customers.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  26

RESILIENT BUSINESS 
Metals Recycling

capabilities in our non-ferrous metal recovery 
plants, also referred to as Joint Product Plants.

Imagine a scrapyard, and you might 
picture clutter and disarray. But the 
reality is just the opposite. Our metals 
yards bring order to chaos, neatly 
sorting, sizing, and baling materials  
so that they can be put to new use. 

We process ferrous metals—or those containing 
iron—by shearing, torching, baling, or sending them 
through shredders, which break down materials more 
efficiently than manual processing. The end product 
is denser and more suitable for use by steel mills. 

We also process non-ferrous metals such as 
stainless steel, aluminum, copper, and brass; all 
products that can all be recycled into new products. 
In the past, we sold a significant portion of these 
materials as mixed grades, which we exported for 
further sorting. Today, to meet increased customer 
demand for more refined grades of metals, Schnitzer 
is upgrading and expanding enhanced separation 

While Schnitzerʼs recycling facilities have recycled 
and sold ferrous and non-ferrous metals for more 
than a century, we are seizing the opportunity to 
more precisely sort non-ferrous metals and other 
materials that form a growing component of the 
scrap stream. For example, household appliances 
and vehicles have been an important part of modern 
life for decades. With the increased use of complex 
electronic components in these products, our metals 
yards must recover a greater volume of highly 
complex scrap materials when they reach the end of 
their useful lives. This, in turn, requires the use of 
advanced sorting technologies that ensure consumer 
safety, protect the environment, and minimize the 
amount of material sent to landfills.

In addition to our investments in advanced sorting 
technology, we have invested significantly in equipment 
to reduce the emissions from our metals recycling 
operations. (Learn more on Page 34). We are also 
identifying additional customers for recycled products 
and working with a growing number of retailers and 
manufacturers in need of recycling services.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  27

RESILIENT BUSINESSMetals Recycling continued

The upgraded equipment itself is also more 
efficient, requiring shorter run times, which means 
greater safety for operators, more time for routine 
maintenance, and reduced electricity use and 
associated emissions. And, because the higher-
quality products we will be producing can be sold 
directly to smelters, we will eliminate a processing 
and transportation step, along with the associated 
emission impacts.

After we have extracted and diverted as much metal  
as possible from shredded material, what remains is 
shredder residue, a combination of plastic, foam, 
wood, rubber, glass, and more. Even here, there is 
potential to create sustainable value. Much of this 
material is beneficially reused as alternative daily 
cover by municipal solid waste landfills. (Learn more 
on Page 40).

Investing in Innovation 

Recent investments include two cable processing 
systems installed on the U.S. west and east coasts. 
This equipment cuts insulated copper wire into small 
pieces, from which we then separate the copper  
from the plastic. This allows us to not only compete 
in international markets with stringent quality 
standards, like China, but also to sell significant 
amounts of copper directly into domestic markets.

In addition, we are taking action to upgrade our 
metal recovery technology at key facilities in the U.S. 
These systems will make use of advanced processes 
that will allow us to separate shredded metals into 
various streams of non-ferrous shredded metals. We 
anticipate these projects will be fully operational in 
Spring 2021.

All of these projects will allow us to increase 
product optionality, extract a greater volume of 
non-ferrous metal to sell, and reduce the material 
that we send to landfills. By the time our new non-
ferrous processing systems and heavy media plants 
are complete, we expect that we will be able to 
recover 20 percent more non-ferrous material than 
before. Each year, approximately 2.1 million tons  
of end-of-life appliances end up in landfills in the 
U.S., so extracting more metal will not only provide 
us with enhanced revenue, but significantly reduce 
negative environmental impacts.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  28

RESILIENT BUSINESSMetals Recycling continued

Breaking Down Schnitzerʼs Scrap Stream 

FERROUS
METALS
Shredded and sent to 
mills to be made into 
new products

AUTOMOTIVE
SHREDDER
RESIDUE
Beneficially used 
as alternative daily 
cover for landfills 

SCRAP
Sourced from 
industrial 
manufacturers, large 
retailers, landfill 
operators, and 
individuals 

NON-
FERROUS
METALS
Sorted and sent  
to smelters to be 
made into new 
products

OTHER
RECYCLABLES
Compacted and sent 
to material recovery 
facilities or other 
customers

ALUMINUM

BRASS

COPPER

STAINLESS STEEL

ZORBA

Electric Vehicles and a Changing Metals Stream 

As other industries evolve, the recyclables that eventually make 
their way to Schnitzer do too. As electric vehicles (EVs) gain 
popularity, we can expect to see a growing stream of these 
vehicles at our Pick-n-Pull facilities and metals yards in the years 
to come. EVs rely mainly on lithium-ion (li-ion) and nickel-metal 
hydride (NiMH) batteries, which contain the critical materials 
nickel and cobalt. We are developing strategies for the efficient 
and safe collection, sortation, and sale of these materials.  

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  29

RESILIENT BUSINESS 
 
Steel Manufacturing
Scrap steel has been used to make 
new steel for generations, making our 
industry one of the original recyclers. 
Today, 21st-century advancements in 
technology make this process safer, 
more streamlined, and more energy 
efficient than ever before.

A growing global population and a fast-industrializing 
world are putting strains on our planetʼs natural 
resources. Trends regarding urbanization and 
infrastructure development show no signs of slowing, 
making it more important than ever that we make 
efficient use of resources that are in finite supply. 
One of those dwindling resources is iron ore, which is 
combined with other materials to make steel.

Electric arc furnace (EAF) and ladle refining furnace 
technologies, unlike conventional basic oxygen 
furnaces, use electric power to remanufacture steel 
from scrap metal rather than virgin ore. This saves 
energy and natural resources and reduces emissions. 

As scrap steel can be recycled endlessly, EAF 
technology has a long-term beneficial impact on the 
environment. Over 90 percent of the raw material 
processed at Cascade Steel is recycled scrap metal, 
with the remainder consisting of alloys that allow us to 
tailor our products to unique customer specifications.

We are continually refining the technologies that 
support our EAF, including supersonic burners, off-gas 
recovery systems, and software systems that allow us 
to manage heat more effectively and efficiently. 

We also find sustainable uses for the by-products of 
our steelmaking process, which may be sold for 
reprocessing and other industrial applications.

When our steel products, including straight and coiled 
reinforcing bar, are shaped, cooled, and ready for 
sale, they are transported efficiently to our valued 
customers. For example, our mill has direct access  
to rail service that provides a lower-emission mode  
of transport than road vehicles. Because our steel 
products are made from recycled materials that are 
often sourced within 50 miles of our Cascade Steel 
facility, they can be used in construction projects 
working toward green-building certifications such as 
LEED. From recycled inputs to efficient outputs, we 
enable resource conservation at every step.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  30

RESILIENT BUSINESSRESILIENT
OPERATIONS

Overview ................................................................. 32

Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction ........................ 33 

Responsible Water Use............................................... 38  

Minimizing & Managing Waste ..................................... 40

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  31

OUR OPERATIONS

The environmental benefits of Schnitzerʼs business are 
considerable: the preservation of natural materials; conservation 
of energy and water associated with mining and manufacturing of 
new products; and the diversion of metal materials from landfills.

At the same time, steel manufacturing is an energy- 
intensive activity, and our metals recycling and auto 
dismantling operations involve processes that can affect 
air and water resources. Thatʼs why it is so important for 
us to manage and mitigate these impacts by using the 
most advanced technologies, equipment, and process 
controls available.

Over the past several years, we have implemented 
several operational improvement projects to meet 
or exceed regulatory requirements throughout our 
Company. But we realize that the journey to becoming 
a more sustainable company has no end point. Our 
Sustainable Principle of “Continuous Improvement” 
drives us to constantly explore and pursue practices  
that promote sustainable operations.

We continue to plan, permit, and install state-of-the-
art air emissions control technologies at our metal 
shredding facilities throughout the United States. These 
technologies will significantly reduce greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and better protect the air quality  
in the communities in which we work and live.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  32

RESILIENT OPERATIONSEnergy Efficiency &  
Emissions Reduction

We are decreasing our energy and air emissions footprint by accessing 
carbon-free sources of power, capturing more of the emissions we 
generate, and investing in more energy-efficient equipment.

Access to abundant, clean, and carbon-free energy for 
our major operating facilities reduces the emissions 
impact of our industrial processes. Our millʼs location in 
McMinnville, Oregon enables us to utilize electricity 
largely sourced from carbon-free hydroelectric power 
generated by the Columbia River Dam System. As a 
result, while 76 percent of the electricity we use is 
attributed to our steel manufacturing operations, the 
facility is responsible for only 16 percent of emissions 
from our electricity use. Likewise, a significant number 
of our autos and metals recycling operations are 
located in California, the Pacific Northwest, and 
British Columbia, which are also largely powered  
by carbon-free energy sources like solar, wind, 
geothermal, nuclear, and hydroelectric.

In fiscal 2020, our carbon-free electricity power  
mix was 93 percent, meaning that we exceeded  
our target of achieving and maintaining at least  
90 percent carbon-free electricity use by the end of 
fiscal 2025. We remain enrolled in voluntary clean 
power procurement programs with several of our 
electricity utility service providers, which allows us 
to support the use of affordable power from 
renewable, carbon-free, or low-carbon sources 
within our communities. In addition, we are 
exploring the use of advanced battery energy 
storage systems and technologies for our metal 
shredding facilities.

In fiscal 2020, our carbon-free 
electricity power mix was 93%, 
meaning that we exceeded our target of 
achieving and maintaining at least 90% 
carbon-free electricity use by the end 
of fiscal 2025.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  33

RESILIENT OPERATIONSEnergy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction continued

Air Quality Compliance

There is an evolving understanding within the metals 
recycling industry regarding the level of air emissions 
generated by shredding activities. Through extensive 
source testing conducted at our Oakland, California 
metals recycling facility, Schnitzer has taken a 
leadership position by properly quantifying our air 
emissions associated with shredding operations 
and taking appropriate steps to capture, treat, and 
ultimately reduce and avoid such emissions.

These steps include a multi-year initiative to install 
enclosures and emission control systems on our 
shredders. On our largest throughput shredders, we 
are also installing regenerative thermal oxidizers to 

treat volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. 
VOC treatment protects air quality by both reducing 
the potential for ground-level ozone formation and 
significantly decreasing GHG emissions.

Enclosures have been used to reduce emissions 
from other industrial processes but are a relatively 
new technological application within the metals 
recycling industry. When added to a shredder and 
designed in a manner consistent with U.S. EPA 
protocols, they can capture more than 95 percent 
of the emissions produced during the shredding 
process. As these installations are completed over 
the next several years, they will help us to meet our 
goal of reducing, by 25 percent, our absolute direct 
GHG emissions from recycling operations.

Our Progress on Shredder Emissions Control Systems

Everett, MA

Oakland, CA

Tacoma, WA

Portland, OR

Kapolei, HI

Commissioned 
and operational 

Upgrading an existing 
enclosure and particulate 
control system to include 
VOC treatment and acid 
gas scrubbing systems

Designing full 
emissions control, 
VOC treatment, and 
acid gas scrubbing 
systems

Designing full 
emissions control, 
VOC treatment, and 
acid gas scrubbing 
systems

Designing an 
enclosure and 
particulate emissions 
control system

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  34

RESILIENT OPERATIONSEnergy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction continued

Schnitzer continues to help prevent dirt, dust, and 
debris from impacting local air and water quality by 
washing and capturing the material from trucks that 
pass through our metals recycling yards. Custom wheel 
wash systems remove dirt and dust from truck wheels 
upon exit from several of our metals recycling facilities, 
thus reducing the volume of fine particles tracked onto 
surrounding roadways. We have also invested in paving 
projects on unimproved surfaces at various locations to 
further minimize “track-out” potential while also aiding 
in stormwater management.

A Continuously Improving Equipment Fleet

We reduce our energy use as well by regularly 
maintaining and upgrading our mobile and fixed 
equipment—seeking replacements that offer 
improved fuel efficiencies. In fiscal 2020, we invested 
more than $11 million to replace several pieces of 

front-line equipment, such as material handlers, 
loaders, hold trucks, and excavators, as part of a 
four-year plan  
to upgrade our fleet to more fuel-efficient models. 
Roughly 21 percent of the energy we consume is  
fuel used for these types of vehicles, including 
on- and off-road transportation vehicles and  
metal-working equipment.

As we replace and re-tool equipment, we ensure 
compliance with emissions regulations in each of our 
markets. For example, we purchase EPA-certified 
Tier IV internal combustion engines, which offer lower 
particulate and smog-related emissions. Other 
important equipment includes the car crushers used 
at our Pick-n-Pull stores. We are in the process of 
replacing diesel-powered crushers with electric 
models. Currently, 60 percent of our auto dismantling 
sites are operating electric car crushers. 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  35

RESILIENT OPERATIONSEnergy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction continued

Energy Consumption 1,4  
(GJ)

Fuels

Natural Gas

Electricity

Scope 1 Emissions 2,4  
(MTCO2e)

Scope 2 Emissions 3,4  
(MTCO2e)

Fuels

Natural Gas

Process

Location-Based

Market-Based

¹ FY16–FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled Total Energy Consumption.

² FY16–FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled Total Scope 1 Emissions.

³ FY16–FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled Scope 2 (Location and Market–based) Emissions.

⁴ This graph shows normalized values against the sum of metric tons of finished steel sold, ferrous scrap shipped, and non-ferrous scrap shipped.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  36

RESILIENT OPERATIONSFY17FY16FY18FY19FY20705,499862,7001,310,532703,671866,1151,333,691770,597935,8791,496,942961,8971,445,435958,918642,6551,410,603735,0650.7170.6600.6250.6130.637FY17FY16FY18FY19FY2049,23243,71653,77349,15443,88956,27353,80447,42462,17948,74358,48748,59244,73753,65151,3350.0370.0340.0320.0310.031FY17FY16FY18FY19FY2021,66621,66122,88622,88225,64025,00421,36419,36522,48124,3500.00540.00520.00500.00480.0048Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction continued

Emissions  
Mix1

Energy  
Mix1

Power  
Mix1

1May not add to 100 percent due to rounding.

Reducing Emissions Across Our Value Chain

Schnitzer works with major retailers who supply scrap, such as used household appliances, to our metal 
recycling facilities to minimize the emissions associated with their transportation. Before working with 
Schnitzer, one of our trade suppliers lacked a way to densify its shipments, meaning that it frequently 
delivered less-than-full truckloads of scrap material. Now, by using Schnitzer-provided portable balers and 
compactor trucks, the retailer is able to deliver fewer and fuller truckloads—burning less fuel in the process.

Improving Efficiency at Cascade Steel 

Schnitzer is helping reduce the air emissions produced 
by melting scrap metal at our mill. Carbon is added to 
steel alloys to give it strength, using carbon injection 
systems. These systems, installed in fiscal 2020, allow 
us to add carbon in more precise amounts, thereby 
reducing overall process emissions. 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  37

RESILIENT OPERATIONS 26% Fuels 29% Natural Gas 32% Process 13% Electricity1May not add to 100 percent due to rounding 21% Fuels 32% Natural Gas 47% Electricity 7% Fossil Fuels 9% Nuclear 77% Hydro 7% Renewables <1% OtherResponsible Water Use

Water is integral to Schnitzerʼs business in several significant ways. We 
use it for cooling in our steelmaking and shredding operations, for dust 
suppression in our metals and auto yards, and for fire hazard prevention 
and response at all facilities. Scrap and vehicles are stored outdoors, 
which means we must also manage the effects of stormwater that 
passes through our yards on its way to local waterways. 

In the context of climate change and water security risks 
globally, we are taking steps to assess our potential 
future water management risks and monitor current water 
management performance. Currently, the availability and 
quality of supply water to our operations is not considered 
a significant risk because all our sites are located within 
the U.S. (including Puerto Rico) and Western Canada. 
We annually invest capital to improve our overall water 
management and conservation capabilities 

As air quality emissions controls evolve, our water usage 
requirements may increase, making ongoing efficiency 
improvements even more important. Our water strategy 
focuses on maximizing direct use of recycled water, reducing 
reliance on freshwater, and decreasing the overall amount  
of water we use. Recent enhancements include a new 
cooling-water system for our electric arc furnace, which 
represents 58 percent of our total water withdrawal but  
has an 80 percent water re-use rate.

Total Water Withdrawal1  
(Cubic Meters) 

Total Water Withdrawal

Purchased Municipal Water

Extracted Well Water

¹ This graph shows normalized values against the sum of metric 
tons of finished steel sold, ferrous scrap shipped, and non-
ferrous scrap shipped.

² FY16–FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for 
reconciled water withdrawal volumes.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  38

RESILIENT OPERATIONSFY17FY16FY18FY19FY201,151,8941,143,8748,0201,096,6871,090,6876,6021,120,6331,110,9039,7301,165,3149,7291,277,5271,286,0658,5391,175,0430.2870.2490.2190.2290.272Responsible Water Use continued

How We Use Water Responsibly

As a recognized member of CDPʼs 2020  
A List for Water Security, we are committed 
to using water responsibly. We take great 
care when using this precious resource for:

  Auto dismantling—Suppressing dust and 

irrigating landscaping 

  Metals shredding—Cooling equipment, 

reducing air emissions, suppressing dust 

  Steel manufacturing—Safely cooling 
metal as it is rolled into rebar—then 
reusing this water up to five times

Managing Stormwater Runoff

Managing stormwater is essential to preserving the 
quality of natural resources within the communities 
in which we operate. During fiscal 2020, we invested 
$8 million in environmental controls that help us 
better capture and clean stormwater. 

Over the past year, we completed the design of new 
stormwater treatment systems for six Pick-n-Pull 
facilities in California. We are in the process of 
purchasing equipment for these systems, with 
construction set to begin at our Oakland, California 
facility in early fiscal 2021. Each treatment system 
is unique to the site; tailored to its geography, 
property size, and surface types present. The 
systems use a combination of technologies—from 
electrocoagulation, chemical treatment, media 
(rock, sand, and carbon) filtration, and expanded 
retention capacity.

A new installation at our Moss Landing, California 
Pick-n-Pull makes use of many of these approaches. 
The facility is located at the edge of Elkhorn Slough, 
a marine conservation area that is home to many 
sensitive species—making it especially important 
that discharge limits be met. Four retention ponds 
were installed on site, combined with separators 
for pretreatment, precisely engineered soil, and 
native plants that maximize filtration. The treatment 
system was installed in consultation with local Native 
American tribes, who advised on how to ensure 
minimal disruption to the surrounding area.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  39

RESILIENT OPERATIONSMinimizing & Managing Waste

By its very nature, Schnitzerʼs business model is about 
minimizing the volume of materials that ends up in landfills. 
Our recycling operations, recycled products, and recycling 
services all contribute to this goal, and much of our process 
waste finds new life in the form of reusable by-products. 

Schnitzer facilities recover and recycle mercury switches, tires, fluids, 
lead-acid and EV batteries, catalytic converters, and other components 
from end-of-life vehicles and appliances. We use advanced separation 
technologies to further extract materials from shredded scrap. And we 
manufacture products using recycled steel. (Learn more at Page 30.)

Many of the outputs of our processes can be put to sustainable use. 
From the operations of our electric arc furnace (EAF), we produce 
three valuable co-products: steel dust, millscale, and slag. Steel dust 
is separated and analyzed, and may be resold to recover zinc, reducing 
virgin zinc mining and production. Similarly, millscale supports the 
reduction of iron ore mining and production, and slag reduces virgin 
cement and gravel production.

Given the number of end-of-life vehicles we recycle, our metals yards 
often handle non-metal materials that cannot be diverted to other 
recycling streams, such as seat cushions, insulation, glass, foam, 
and plastics. Once shredded, these mixed materials are referred to 
as automotive shredder residue (ASR). When possible, we send ASR 
for beneficial reuse as alternative daily cover (ADC) for landfills. ADC 
is applied at the end of each day to the active portion of landfills to protect 
wildlife, minimize dust, deter pests, control odors, and isolate wastes. As 
many landfills traditionally use topsoil as daily cover, using ASR effectively 
conserves topsoil and prevents the environmental impacts associated with 
topsoil mining. ASR is also more compactable than soil, which means that 
its use conserves landfill space. In fiscal 2020, 93 percent of ASR generated 
by our operations was beneficially used as ADC. As a result of all these 
diversion strategies—and the overall recycling focus of our business—the 
amount of material we send to landfills is negligible compared with the 
amount of material we divert from landfills.

Shredder Residue Generated for 
Beneficial Re-use as ADC1 
(Metric Tons) 

0.140

0.142

0.141

0.132

0.133

659,996 662,448

566,594

551,816

470,021

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Steel Dust Generated for Zinc

1 This graph shows normalized values against the 
sum of metric tons of ferrous and non-ferrous 
Normalized against metric tons of 
scrap shipped.
ferrous+non ferrous scrap

Steel Dust Generated  
for Zinc Recovery 2 
(Metric Tons) 

0.017

0.017

0.018

0.015

0.016

7,394

7,129

7,744

7,979

7,671

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

2 This graph shows normalized values against 
Shredder Residue Generated for ADC
metric tons of finished steel.

Normalized against metric tons of 
ferrous+non ferrous scrap

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  40

RESILIENT OPERATIONSRESILIENT
WORKPLACE

Overview ................................................................. 42

Integrity, Ethics & Compliance  ..................................... 43

Safety ..................................................................... 46

Health & Wellness  ..................................................... 52

Employee Engagement & Inclusion  ............................... 54

Talent Management ................................................... 58

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  41

OUR PEOPLE

Weʼve often said that what sets us apart from other companies 
is not what we do, but how we do it—how we conduct ourselves 
in our daily work and how we treat our people. But itʼs during 
challenging times that the resilience of our values is truly put  
to the test.

During fiscal 2020, Schnitzer, along with the rest of the world, responded to the 
COVID-19 pandemic and its resulting implications for employee safety and well-being, 
remote work, and employee engagement. We also took steps to better support our 
Black employees amid a national reckoning with systemic racism.

Weʼve weathered these changes thanks to a robust culture of transparency and ethical 
behavior that is part of our Companyʼs foundation. Further bolstering our approach 
is our transition this year to our new One Schnitzer operating model, enabling our 
business and our employees to be stronger together.

As we continue to make our way through an uncertain time, weʼll stay focused on our 
people, the continued source of our success.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  42

RESILIENT WORKPLACEIntegrity, Ethics & Compliance

Integrity is more than a priority at Schnitzer—it is one of our Core 
Values. Working with integrity compels us to do the right thing even 
when no one is watching, or when it would be more convenient or 
advantageous to take another approach.

Our Core Value of Integrity underscores our 
commitment to operating from an ethics-based 
approach, which is why our program goes beyond 
ensuring compliance with the law to establishing 
and maintaining the framework for how we treat 
one another and our stakeholders. By integrating 
ethically sound behaviors, we establish an 
expectation of personal and organizational 
responsibility and build trust.

Maintaining a positive workplace and conducting 
business according to our Core Values requires 
a common set of ethical rules, which we present 
in our Code of Conduct. We recently refreshed 
and updated the Code to improve readability and 
accessibility, and to upgrade the content to further 
communicate the ways our shared values are 
reflected in our ethical standards and expectations 
for how we operate every day. We also have a 
Supplier Code of Conduct to communicate ethical 
guidelines and establish parameters governing 
our relationships with those in our supply chain. 
Our Codes drive our culture of compliance, ethical 
decision-making, and accountability.

As a business that engages in commercial transactions 
throughout the world, we have a responsibility 
to respect human rights everywhere we operate. 
Schnitzerʼs Human Rights Policy reinforces 
our commitment to upholding the internationally 

recognized human rights as set forth in the United 
Nationsʼ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the International Labour Organizationʼs Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.

Ethics Program

Schnitzer has an independent Ethics and Compliance 
function, governed by a charter. Our Chief Ethics 
and Compliance Officer, who reports to the CEO 
and also to the Board of Directors through its Audit 
Committee, leads this function. Schnitzerʼs Ethics 
and Compliance Program promotes the Code of 
Conduct, communicates and educates employees 
on the importance of making ethical decisions, and 
helps foster an environment where employees feel 
comfortable reporting concerns.

Across our workforce, 23 percent of employees 
belong to unions. All Schnitzer employees, both 
union and non-union, participate in annual 
training on our Companyʼs Core Values, which 
includes instruction on our Code of Conduct and 
ethical behavior. The training includes deep dives on 
important topics such as reporting misconduct, our 
prohibition against retaliation, unconscious bias, and 
diversity and inclusion. Because of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we revised our fiscal 2020 training plan to 
align with the evolving situation, opting for streamlined 
courses complete with employee-provided videos.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  43

RESILIENT WORKPLACEIntegrity, Ethics & Compliance continued

Schnitzerʼs employee community is rich in 
diversity and full of talented people with varied 
backgrounds and experiences, many of whom speak 
multiple languages. An ongoing emphasis of our 
Ethics and Compliance Program is ensuring that 
communications are inclusive and accessible to all. 
To this end, we make training content available in 
both English and Spanish, offer it in both written 
and audio formats, and produce communications 
such as posters and flyers to convey bilingual 
messages clearly.

We empower employees to raise issues and 
concerns regarding compliance with our Code of 
Conduct and the law by offering multiple reporting 
channels, including a third-party, confidential, 
multi-lingual hotline, where employees may choose 
to remain anonymous. No matter how employees 
choose to report concerns, we ensure all reports 
are promptly investigated.

Anticorruption Program

An essential part of operating ethically is ensuring 
that we follow anticorruption and antibribery laws 
and regulations. We scrutinize all our operations for 
corruption risks and constantly evolve our program 
to address those risks. In addition to our Code of 
Conduct, we have a comprehensive Anticorruption 
Policy available to all employees that details 
prohibitions against bribery, money laundering, 
and engaging with terrorists or other sanctioned 
entities. The policy prohibits facilitation payments 
and also requires that Schnitzer maintain accurate 
books and records.

Our Anticorruption Handbook, Anticorruption Internal 
Controls, and other reference guides help employees 
understand these prohibitions and requirements and, 
for those whose job functions are critical to our 
Anticorruption Program, specifies roles and 
responsibilities in order to create accountability. Our 
International Anticorruption Council, chaired by the 
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and comprising 
senior leaders in operations, finance, legal, sales, 
procurement, IT, and internal audit, monitors the 
execution of Schnitzerʼs Anticorruption Program and 
promotes it within the organization. 

Essential elements of the Schnitzer  
Anticorruption Program, summarized  
in our Anticorruption Handbook, are:

  International Anticorruption Council

  Key Employees

  Anticorruption Training

  Books and Records

  Corruption Risk Assessment

  Anticorruption Internal Controls

  International Due Diligence

  International Contract Administration

  Designated Party Screening

  Identifying Red Flags

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  44

RESILIENT WORKPLACEIntegrity, Ethics & Compliance continued

Global Recognition

Ethics in Action Award

Behaving ethically requires courage and a 
commitment to doing whatʼs right. Schnitzerʼs 
Ethics in Action award program recognizes 
employees who demonstrate ethical behavior in 
general or specific instances of ethical deeds. Recent 
honorees were celebrated for attributes like consistent 
ethical leadership, willingness to speak up and alert 
others to a potential hazard, and going above and 
beyond normal duties to help out another facility that 
was facing a staffing shortage. Employees can 
nominate their colleagues year-round using an 
online portal.

2020 was the sixth consecutive year in which 
Schnitzer was named one of the Worldʼs Most 
Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere Institute.* 
This prestigious award is given to companies that 
foster a culture of ethics and transparency at every 
level of the Company. Specifically, winners must 
demonstrate leadership in five key categories: ethics 
and compliance; environmental and societal impacts; 
culture of ethics; governance; and leadership  
and reputation.

Through the annual process of applying for this award 
and analyzing our scores across all categories, we 
gain significant insight into current best practices 
and can plan and implement improvements to our 
Company-wide communications and training programs 
accordingly across all departments and functions.

* “Worldʼs Most Ethical Companies” and “Ethisphere” names and marks 
are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  45

RESILIENT WORKPLACESafety

Safety is one of our Core Values, and our focus is ensuring everybody goes 
home safe and healthy every day. We believe all injuries are preventable. 
Schnitzerʼs approach to safety is proactive, incorporating active leadership, 
as well as risk and hazard identification, management, and where possible, 
elimination. Creating a positive health and safety culture takes time and 
visible leadership that demonstrates care and concern for peopleʼs health 
and safety.

At the end of fiscal 2020, Schnitzer completed 
the transition to a functionally based, integrated 
operating model that helps simplify and streamline 
processes across the Company. (Learn more on 
page 7). This new structure provides for greater 
integration of the environmental, health, and 
safety (EHS) functions and operations, supporting 
improved sharing and adoption of best practices.

To support our One Schnitzer structure, we have 
rolled out a new EHS Information Management 
System. The system will provide a streamlined and 
uniform platform to record and track all incidents, 
corrective actions, root causes, audit findings, 
and more, related to EHS compliance. The platform 
enables greater use of mobile technology to capture 
and share EHS information.

Strengthening our culture of safety means reinforcing 
safe behaviors and encouraging a sense of mutual 
accountability to make sure people look out for 
one another. Across our Company, ensuring a work 
environment that protects employees, contractors 
and visitors, and surrounding communities is our  
joint responsibility.

Schnitzerʼs health and safety policies and programs 
are based on leading industry practices and executed 
through the expertise of our health and safety 
team. Through industry organizations such as the 
ISRI and the Steel Manufacturers Association, we 
actively participate in dialogues regarding reporting 
standards, benchmarking, and sharing learnings  
from incidents.

Schnitzerʼs Safety Strategy

  Prevent serious injuries and fatalities

  Achieve zero injuries

  Cultivate personal safety leadership

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  46

RESILIENT WORKPLACE 
Safety continued

Safety Performance 

We track health and safety performance using 
industry standard metrics and work continuously 
to improve all aspects of our performance. We 
are proud to have recorded the lowest Total Case 
Incident Rate (TCIR) in our Companyʼs history during 
fiscal 2020, which reflected a significant improvement 
over fiscal 2019, our previous best. We attribute 
this to the work weʼve done over the past several 
years to engage leaders and front-line employees in 
addressing the root causes of safety incidents. But 
there is more that we can and need to do. An analysis 
of Lost Time Injuries indicated over 54 percent were 
associated with handling, lifting, or other activities 

that resulted in muscle strains or overexertion. By 
educating our employees on proper work techniques 
such as safe lifting, avoiding twisting motions, 
completing warm-ups and stretching exercises to 
prepare for the workday, as well as redesigning jobs 
to reduce physiological impacts, we will continue to 
reduce injuries and incidents.

Our three-part safety strategy emphasizes prevention of 
serious injuries and fatalities, works toward achievement 
of zero injuries, and empowers employees to cultivate 
personal safety leadership. With zero injuries as our 
ultimate aspiration, we are working toward a near-
term goal of a 1.00 TCIR by the end of fiscal 2025 (one 
recordable injury per 200,000 working hours).

Total Case Incident Rate 
(TCIR) 

Days Away, Restricted, or 
Transferred (DART) Rate

Lost Time Incident Rate 
(LTIR)

4.57
↓17%

4.16
↑9%

3.89

2.80
↑33%

1.91
↑32%

0
3

.

5
2

.

0
2

.

5
1

.

0
1

.

5
0

.

0
0

.

0
3

.

5
2

.

0
2

.

5
1

.

0
1

.

5
0

.

0
0

.

2.63
↓20%

2.49
↑5%

2.19

2.00
↑20%

1.43
↑29%

1.03
↓ 20%

1.00
↑3%

0.93

0.76
↓ 29%

0.59
↑41%

2
1

.

0
1

.

8
0

.

6
0

.

4
0

.

2
0

.

0
0

.

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

Driving Safe in the Northeast

Congratulations to the drivers, service technicians, 
and leaders from Schnitzer facilities in Johnston, 
Rhode Island; Concord, New Hampshire; and Auburn, 
Maine, who earned ISRIʼs Best Fleet Award—Small and 
Intermediate Class. The award was granted to ISRI members 
with the lowest vehicle accident rate and Department of 
Transportation severity rate for 2018 and 2019. 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  47

RESILIENT WORKPLACESafety continued

Serious Injury & Fatality (SIF) Prevention

We are committed to identifying, understanding, 
and controlling risks associated with hazards in 
the workplace. Everyone should return home safe 
and healthy every day. A Company-wide set of 
policies, operating procedures, and systems details 
accountabilities, controls, and minimum requirements for 
managing work-related health and safety risks, including 
elimination or mitigation of risks with the greatest 
potential to cause a serious injury or fatality. A very 
important focus for us is to prevent serious injuries and 
fatalities in the workplace. We started by conducting an 
in-depth analysis of all incidents occurring over a multi-
year period and identified 14 Critical Risks throughout 
Schnitzer that pose the greatest risk to employee safety. 
The program defines a set of critical controls that are 
expected to be in place every time we undertake a task 
involving each risk. Site leaders perform frequent field-
based observations to verify that the critical controls 
are in place and effective at the time the work occurs. 
Any deficiencies found during the verification must 
be addressed before resuming work. The COVID-19 
pandemic delayed the full rollout of the program,  
which will be completed in fiscal 2021.

For example, as vehicle handling is a risk in all our 
businesses, we have implemented measures such as 
a safe driving camera system for over-the-road truck 
drivers and are exploring the use of GPS technology to 
track all vehicles at a facility, using data to optimize traffic 
flow and minimize interaction between pedestrians and 
trucks. A risk unique to Cascade Steel is molten metal, 
so we have created a “molten metal pathway” to keep 
employees, visitors, and vendors safe. When a melt is 
occurring, people must clear the area for their safety. 
Signage, floor markings, lights, and alarms send a clear 
signal to anyone present to move to a safe area.

14 Critical Risks

Fall from Heights

Entanglement

Mobile Equipment
Operation

Vehicle Handling
(Movement, Setting & Racking)

Lock-out/Tag-out

Rail Operations

Bypassing Safety 
Controls

Hot Metal Operations

Materials Handling
and Receiving

Torching

Confined Space

Over-the-Road
Transportation

Cranes & Lifting

Projectiles

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  48

RESILIENT WORKPLACESafety continued

For each task with high SIF potential, we establish 
controls to reduce or eliminate risk. These controls 
range from administrative to engineering aspects, such 
as how we set up areas for our torching and cutting 
activities, to machine guards to separate our employees 
from rotating equipment. Our front-line employees 
are empowered to stop work and speak to a supervisor 
at any time if a control is missing or ineffective. For 
leaders, reducing SIF potential means engaging teams 
to identify critical risks and verify that controls are in 
place. During fiscal 2021, we are rolling out additional 
training to further educate employees on the critical 
risks they may face on the job and reiterate the 
necessary controls to help keep them safe.

Beyond reducing individual injuries and fatalities, 
an important goal of this work is to create a shared 
learning environment that improves safety throughout 
the Company. We thoroughly investigate all incidents 
and incorporate any lessons we learn, knowing that 
accidents and near-misses rarely occur in isolation. 
Therefore, when we make a process improvement at 
one facility, we often make the same change at other 
facilities to stop potential incidents in their tracks.

Working Toward Achieving Zero Injuries

Our journey to zero focuses on the elimination, 
mitigation, and control of the most critical risks 
across Schnitzer. We start this journey by instilling 
in our employees the understanding that 
production is never more important than safety. 
This expectation is set during the initial on-
boarding of every new Schnitzer employee and 
continually reinforced through daily safety 
huddles, layered safety observations (LSO), and 
monthly EHS town halls. These tools allow us the 
opportunity to positively influence the behavior of 
employees through engagement and coaching on 
acceptable behaviors. Reporting systems and 
monitoring processes allow us to ensure our controls 
are effective and that we are on track to meet our 
goals. Our stance is proactive, focusing on leading, 
rather than lagging, indicators as a measurement of 
our safety performance. 

Injury-Free Facilities  
(Percentage of facilities with no recorded injuries) 

Lost Time-Free Facilities  
(Percentage of facilities with LTIR of zero)

52% 50%

44%

67%

55%

0
8

0
7

0
6

0
5

0
4

0
3

0
2

0
1

0

0
0
1

0
8

0
6

0
4

0
2

0

87% 85%

84% 86%

75%

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY19

FY20

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  49

RESILIENT WORKPLACESafety continued

Where employees face particular risks due to 
exposure to heat and potentially hazardous 
materials, a formal wellness program helps keep 
health and safety top of mind. Respirators and 
showers are provided to protect workers from 
potential lead exposures during the steelmaking 
process. In addition, we provide resources to 
encourage proper stretching to create an ergonomic 
work environment that reduces the potential for 
sprains, strains, or overexertion. As part of a pilot 
program, we have engaged a physical therapist to 
develop role- and task-specific exercises to help 
prevent ergonomic injuries.

We utilize Field-Level Risk Assessments (FLRAs) 
to assist our employees in identifying hazards and 
managing risk. To complete an FLRA, employees 
break down the steps of the task to identify potential 
risks or hazards and then document the controls 
needed to complete the work safely.

To continuously evolve and improve our safety culture, 
we require that all incidents be investigated to 
determine the root cause and contributing factor(s). 
We then implement corrective actions and shared 
learnings to prevent similar incidents from occurring 
at other facilities.

Working toward zero incidents and injuries also 
requires adopting a holistic view of occupational 
health. This includes informal actions, such as 
speaking to employees and assessing if they 
are mentally and physically ready for work. If an 
employee appears to be in distress or unfit for work, 
we offer a 24-hour medical line for employees to 
speak with a registered medical professional.

Each morning our employees conduct 
stretch and flex exercises. Elimination 
of workplace injuries is a multi-faceted 
program that includes identifying 
hazards, implementing engineering and 
administrative controls, and stretching 
to reduce physical demands of manual 
handling and the occurrence of 
musculoskeletal disorders.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  50

RESILIENT WORKPLACESafety continued

Personal Safety Leadership

The last and most important pillar of our safety 
strategy is Personal Safety Leadership. We cannot 
sustain our safety improvements without engaging 
all employees at every level and making this a true 
team effort. This pillar empowers employees to take 
accountability for their own safety and the safety of 
their coworkers.

To build empowered teams, leaders from all levels 
of Schnitzer spend time in the field engaging with 
employees about safety. Our leaders are responsible 
for verifying that our critical controls and our health, 
safety, and environmental procedures are working 
as intended. Through these engagements, we 
encourage positive behaviors and practices and 
identify at-risk behaviors and opportunities to 
improve our processes and practices.

During fiscal 2020 we have focused on:

•  Embedding the practice of conducting quality LSOs

•  Improving overall housekeeping standards

•  Identifying learnings from critical incidents and 

implementing best practices

We are committed to learning from and sharing best 
practices with others. We actively participate in 
programs to improve our performance as members 
of the ISRI Health and Safety roundtable.

One way that managers engage their teams is through 
LSOs. During an LSO, managers at multiple levels 
observe a worker performing a task. After the task 
is complete, the employee and managers have a 
conversation during which they discuss potential 
hazards involved in the task and controls that have 
been put in place. Managers may offer constructive 
feedback, and employees have the opportunity to 
share their own concerns or suggestions for further 
improvement. We expect every facility manager across 
Schnitzer to conduct at least one LSO per week.

In fiscal 2020, we analyzed LSO data that had 
been collected at our steel mill. After reviewing the 
findings of hundreds of LSOs, we identified ways in 
which we can improve the LSO process, make the 
data more actionable, and ultimately reduce hazards 
and injuries in our workplace. LSOs and enhanced 
training for front-line supervisors are critical tools 
we utilize in our pursuit of an injury-free workplace. 
In fact, through the use of these tools, 72 of our 
facilities were injury-free in fiscal 2020.

An Attractive Safety Solution 

Cascade Steel and Scrap recently installed magnetic cranes in a 
warehouse that is used to store finished steel products. In the past, 
employees attached chains from overhead cranes to bundles of 
steel, creating the potential for pinch point and ergonomic injuries. 
The magnetic system removes workers from the craneʼs area of 
operation, using a lock-out/tag-out system as a further safeguard.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  51

RESILIENT WORKPLACEHealth & Wellness
At Schnitzer, health and wellness have always been an integral part of 
our Core Value of Safety, but this year COVID-19 brought our efforts in 
this area to the forefront. 

In the last 14 days, have you been in 
contact with anyone who has tested 
positive for COVID-19?

Do you or anyone you live with 
have any of these symptoms?

COVID -19 SYMPTOMS 
• Fever or chills
• Cough
• Difﬁculty breathing
• Fatigue
• Muscle or body aches
• Headache
• New loss of taste or smell
• Sore throat
• Congestion or runny nose
• Nausea or Vomiting
• Diarrhea

If so, please immediately speak with your Supervisor

English COVID-19 Symptoms 07152020

Protecting our workforce by 
managing health and safety risks 
inherent in our business included 
implementing a wide range of 
controls and other protective 
measures at our sites to detect  
and prevent the transmission of 
COVID-19.

The COVID-19 pandemic presented a host of challenges 
requiring businesses everywhere to adapt and adjust. 
Because our operations at Pick-n-Pull, our metals 
recycling facilities, and Cascade Steel were deemed 
essential businesses by the U.S. Department of 
Homeland Security, Cybersecurity & Infrastructure 
Security Agency, our response to this very fluid crisis had 
to be fast-moving and flexible. As news of the pandemic 
spread, we activated our Crisis Management Team 
comprised of senior leaders in operations and shared 
services. We also ensured that we had a comprehensive 
technology platform to enable employees to do their 
jobs remotely where feasible. By mid-March, we had 
established control measures across all businesses to 
protect our employees, contractors, and customers in 
line with guidance or directives from federal, state, 
provincial, and local governments and advice from the 
World Health Organization. Employees at our corporate 
offices, and many of those in offices at our operating 
facilities, began working remotely. 

One of the main controls established was to monitor 
employee health. We utilize an independent 24-hour 
telemedicine service that allows any employee who 
exhibits COVID-like symptoms or who tests positive for 

COVID-19 to be connected with a licensed medical 
professional who helps assess the situation, provides 
direction for self-isolation and access to testing 
facilities, and provides a connection to healthcare 
providers. The HR Business Partner supporting the 
employeeʼs location follows up regularly throughout the 
employeeʼs illness, isolation, and recovery period.

During the COVID-19 health crisis, in those instances 
where an employee was a confirmed positive, the 
employee was compensated at their regular rate of pay 
while also retaining health and welfare benefits during 
their recovery, and until returning to their work schedule. 

At our facilities, we instituted a range of safety practices 
and COVID prevention controls, such as temperature 
screening, symptom checks, wearing face coverings, 
hygiene and sanitation procedures, social and physical 
distancing, touch-less equipment, and other paperless 
reduction processes. To monitor the effectiveness of 
these controls, our Health and Safety team created a 
protocol for auditing facilities on their performance 
against our COVID-19 controls. The results of these 
audits are reported to senior leadership and used to 
make any necessary performance improvements.

Because many of our industry peers are also essential 
businesses, Schnitzer has been benchmarking our 
response against our fellow members of the Institute 
of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI) and sharing  
best practices. Regular and transparent employee 
communication also has been critical to our safe 
response. Weekly messages of support help to keep 
safe behaviors top of mind.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  52

RESILIENT WORKPLACERESILIENT WORKPLACE

Strong Connections Amid Social Distance

“Schnitzer provided 

an added support 

network outside of my 

family during a difficult 

time. Knowing they 

were there and willing 

to help was really 

important.” 

In the early days of COVID-19–related stay-at-home orders, Dave 
Pagliuca and his wife decided to pass the time with some spring cleaning. 
Dave, a transportation supervisor, manages the railcar fleet in 
Schnitzerʼs northeast region, overseeing the movement of scrap metal 
between customer sites, shredding facilities, and mills. Spring in New 
England is pollen season. And, as the Pagliucas aired out their home, 
they also brought on a bout of seasonal allergies—or so they thought.

The couple didnʼt think much about their symptoms, including low- 
grade fevers and fatigue. But days later, their symptoms had worsened, 
and Daveʼs wife reported a fever of 103 degrees. They contacted their 
doctor, who conducted a COVID-19 test and ordered the family to 
quarantine. Ultimately, both Dave and his wife tested positive.

When Dave got the news, one of his first calls was to Marco Liberal, 
Regional Logistics Manager and Daveʼs supervisor. Marco offered to 
help with anything the Pagliucas needed, checking in daily on the familyʼs 
health. Dave also heard from Schnitzer colleagues in HR, as well as the 
Regional Director and VP of Operations, both of whom shared concern 
and offered support.

Dave, who experienced milder COVID-19 symptoms than his wife, 
continued to work remotely while serving as caretaker for the duration  
of their self-quarantine, which lasted nearly three weeks.

Now virus-free, Dave splits his time between remote work and periodic 
visits to Schnitzer facilities, where protocols like temperature checks, 
staggered arrival times, and mandatory mask-wearing are in place. Heʼs 
proud of the precautions Schnitzer is taking to keep employees safe, 
and of how cared for he felt during his own illness.

“Schnitzer provided an added support network outside of my family 
during a difficult time,” Dave says. “Knowing they were there and willing 
to help was really important.”

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  53

RESILIENT WORKPLACEEmployee Engagement  
& Inclusion 

Employee engagement took on a new meaning in fiscal  
2020. While COVID-19 decreased opportunities for in-person 
connections, we found ways to connect virtually, which enabled 
us to address issues such as systemic racism and employee 
concerns during the pandemic. 

We have a strong employee culture—and believe 
that continued engagement can make it even 
stronger. Our Engaging Employees Everyday 
(3Es) initiative enables us to continually increase 
cultural awareness, inspire employee engagement, 
and foster an environment where open and safe 
conversations can exist. An important element of this 
initiative, which began in 2018, has been our town 
hall meetings at each of our facilities, and virtual 
“town calls,” during which our Chairman and CEO 
and other Schnitzer leaders request candid feedback 
from employees about their experiences at the 
Company and ways we can improve our operations 
and work environment.

These virtual meetings became increasingly 
important during the COVID-19 crisis, when 
opportunities for in-person engagement were 
rare. During one such call, our leaders engaged in 
an open conversation about systemic racism and 
social injustice, and how Schnitzer is responding 
to inequity. The feedback we received from this 
meeting was overwhelmingly positive, and we 
have continued the conversation on this and other 
important issues. In fiscal 2020, we held three town 
hall video calls, and going forward, intend to hold 
them quarterly.

We know that creating lasting change requires 
more than just talk—it takes action. Building on the 
training on unconscious bias that was part of the Our 
Core Values training in the Fall of 2019, we launched 
a standalone module for leaders first, and then for 
all employees. On Juneteenth—the day that the last 
enslaved people in Texas learned that they had been 
emancipated—we challenged the entire Company to 
discuss the ways they could help end racial injustice. 
We shared talking points with leaders to help 
facilitate these ongoing conversations.

Responding to employee suggestions for more 
recognition programs, we added several new programs 
to our already existing Safety, Teamwork, Attitude, 
Resourcefulness (STAR) Award program, rewarding 
outstanding performance, and our Ethics in Action 
award program, recognizing employees for ethical 
behavior, among others. These include the STAR 
Finder program, which rewards employees for referring 
future team members, and a service award recognition 
program that honors employees for their years of 
service with the Company.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  54

RESILIENT WORKPLACEEmployee Engagement & Inclusion continued

“RISE was established as a forum for 
employees who share common interests 
in racial equality. We wanted to drive 
organizational change and positively 
impact Schnitzerʼs diversity goals by 
ensuring our recruitment policies allow 
us access to diverse candidate pools, by 
creating awareness around some of the 
barriers and obstacles faced by Black 
employees, and by fostering connections 
across the Company.”

Rachel Jackson, Co-leader of RISE

Employee Resource Groups 

In fiscal 2020, we rolled out Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs), which are voluntary, employee-led 
groups designed to celebrate diversity and foster an 
inclusive workplace aligned with Schnitzerʼs mission, 
values, goals, business practices, and objectives. 
The first group to launch was a Veterans ERG. 
Schnitzer was named a Military Friendly® employer 
for 2020, and this group will help us continue to 
create a rewarding place to work for veterans, who 
make up 6 percent of our workforce, and the many 
employees who have veterans in their families. 

We also launched our PRIDE (LGBTQ+) ERG during 
Pride Month 2020. While the launch occurred amid 
work changes necessitated by COVID-19, the 
group has organized virtual meetings, social 
events, and a hotline where employees can obtain 
support and advice.

We have two other active ERGs:
  Racial Inclusiveness, Support & Education  

(RISE); and 

  Hispanic

“I have enjoyed the benefit of a 

strong military connection through 

my family at home, and itʼs great 

to come to a workplace that tries to 

equal that support!”

Cameron Johnson, Facilities and  
Commercial Manager and U.S. Marine 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  55

RESILIENT WORKPLACEEmployee Engagement & Inclusion continued

“PRIDE serves to build and promote 
an inclusive community for all gender 
expressions at Schnitzer. Our initial focus 
has been to develop and provide education 
on the topics of gender identity and 
pronouns. In fiscal 2021, we will explore the 
concept of ʽsafe spacesʼ and how they may 
support the broader Schnitzer ecosystem.”

Doug Campbell, Co-leader of PRIDE

A requirement of new ERGs is that they develop 
a business case that is linked to our Diversity and 
Inclusion (D&I) and corporate objectives. For 
example, the Veterans ERG will help Schnitzer 
attract, develop, and retain veterans at the 
Company; provide information to employees 
regarding resources for the military and veteran 
community; and support Schnitzer employees 
who serve in the military during their deployment. 
The Veterans ERG plans to organize community 
outreach events, host senior-level talks, and launch 
a mentorship program through which more senior 
members of the group will mentor other members.

There are a number of other ERGs currently in the 
planning process, including:
  Multicultural;
  Women; and 
  Digital Wellness

“With the Hispanic Employee Resource Group (HERG) we are able to dialogue more 

directly with our Hispanic employees. With this open communication avenue, new ideas, 

information, and valuable development tools are shared between Hispanic, front-line 

employees, and leaders.” 

Pedro Orbezo, Co-leader of HERG

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  56

RESILIENT WORKPLACEEmployee Engagement & Inclusion continued

Measuring Diversity & Inclusion 
Leadership

Our formal D&I program helps us better embrace 
employees of all backgrounds, actively recruit from 
diverse talent pools, and create a respectful workplace 
with a zero-tolerance policy on discrimination and 
harassment based on race, ethnicity, age, military status, 
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or religion.

To better understand our own employee population 
and identify opportunities to be even more inclusive, 
Schnitzer has undertaken significant efforts to collect 
and benchmark diversity statistics against industry 
averages. We are especially proud of Schnitzerʼs 
representation of women at the executive level and on 
our Board of Directors. With four women out of nine 
directors (44.4 percent), our representation of women 
on the Board is almost twice the Russell 3000 average 
(22.6 percent). Additionally, we seek a diverse slate 
when undertaking searches for Company leadership 
positions and new Board candidates.

Schnitzer U.S. Workforce Ethnicity Association  
vs. EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate

Schnitzer Board of Directors  
Gender Representation vs. Russell 3000

Female Workforce Representation

22%  Total Workforce

22%  All Management Positions

17%  Top Management Positions

26%  Junior Management Positions

21%  Revenue-Generating Management Positions

Schnitzer Workforce Age Representation

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  57

RESILIENT WORKPLACE44.4%Female22.6% 51% White or Caucasian 30% Hispanic or Latino 9% Black or African American  3% Two or More Races  3% Asian  1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander<1% American Indian/Alaskan Native 2% Not SpecifiedSchnitzerU.S. workforce62% White or Caucasian 17% Hispanic or Latino 13% Black or African American 2% Two or More Races 5% Asian <1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander <1% Not Specified 1% American Indian/Alaska NativeEEO-1 by Industry Aggregate11%  18-25 24% 26-35 23% 36-45 23% 46-55 16% 56-65 3% 66+SchnitzerWorkforceTalent Management

Our Human Resources (HR) team spent much of fiscal 2020 focused on 
protecting and supporting employees during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
While employees were physically distanced from colleagues, we went 
to great lengths to ensure that despite the distance, team members 
did not feel alone and that they could continue to rely on our robust 
program of training, development, and benefits.

Training & Development

While COVID-19 delayed some of our plans for 
new training, we continually look for opportunities 
to help employees grow. For example, we offer 
apprenticeship programs for key skill areas such as 
welders and electricians, partnering with local state 
and community colleges to deliver an accredited 
program that blends classroom curriculum with on- 
site job experience. Employees spend eight hours 
on classroom coursework, followed by four hours of 
on-site training. We also offer tuition reimbursement 
for eligible employees interested in furthering their 
education independently. As one specific example of 
how we adjusted our efforts to adapt to the pandemic, 
we developed training designed to assist those 
managers now leading teams virtually.

We believe that a safe and healthy workplace is 
fundamental to realizing the full potential of our 
talented workforce. As essential businesses, our 
first priority was ensuring that we were able to 
operate safely throughout the pandemic. Early on, 
we developed and implemented health, safety, 
and wellness protocols, rolled out training, and 
effectively communicated across our platform.  

All of Schnitzerʼs operating facilities 
were designated essential businesses, 
and therefore have continued to 
operate throughout the pandemic.

Actions included pre-entry temperature checks; 
wearing face coverings and other personal protective 
equipment; social distancing; frequently cleaning 
our work sites and washing our hands; and remote 
working arrangements, where applicable. During this 
entire process, we provided support to employees to 
help them navigate the changes and reduce stress 
as much as possible. (Read more on page 7).

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  58

RESILIENT WORKPLACETalent Management continued

In fiscal 2020, we began implementing Communication 
Leadership Essentials, a third-party training program 
for our front-line supervisors. We were successful in 
training a network of internal trainers who will enable 
us to roll out training more fully in fiscal 2021.

comprehensive diabetes management program. 
We introduced a 401(k) plan for Puerto Rico-
based employees for the first time; all U.S.-based 
employees now have access to a 401(k).

New Benefits

In the wake of COVID-19, healthcare benefits 
became especially important. In January 2020, 
we enhanced our already comprehensive benefit 
package to include MDLive, a telemedicine 
resource that allows employees to meet with a 
healthcare provider without leaving home. We also 
created a two-tiered network for care under our 
Blue Cross Blue Shield network, which reduced 
costs for participants, and introduced Livongo, a 

Also, we provided two additional opportunities for 
employees to take paid time off. We implemented 
a new annual floating holiday, known as Heritage 
Day, effective in fiscal 2021. This new holiday 
is intended to honor our diversity by enabling 
every employee to select a day of their choice to 
celebrate a cultural, religious, social, or other 
memorable event. We also now allow employees to 
utilize up to an additional eight hours per calendar 
year to volunteer in their community.

Further, in recognition of the challenges faced by 
our front-line employees, we awarded special cash 
bonuses, benefitting 85 percent of our workforce.

When we did have to implement furloughs or 
make adjustments to work hours, we ensured that 
employees did not lose access to health coverage or 
other benefits. We also allowed employees to continue 
to accrue paid time off (PTO) while furloughed. 

A full list of our expanding employee benefits can be 
found on our careers website.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  59

RESILIENT WORKPLACERESILIENT
COMMUNITY

Overview ................................................................. 61

Earth Day ................................................................ 63

Disaster Relief .......................................................... 63

Hunger Relief ........................................................... 64

Community Safety ..................................................... 65

Education ................................................................ 66

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  60

OUR COMMUNITIES

If our Company is to thrive, our communities must too. We are 
an active member of more than 100 communities across North 
America. We strive to ensure that everywhere we operate, our 
presence positively impacts our local communities, through direct 
giving, employee volunteerism, supporting our fellow employees 
who have suffered hardships, and promoting safety. 

As the COVID-19 pandemic put additional pressure 
on our communities, Schnitzer stepped up to 
provide additional support. For example, forced 
school closures put millions of children at risk to 
lose the daily meals that they and their families 

depend on. Our donations to five food banks in 
communities where we operate helped fill this gap. 
We also held blood drives as part of the “SleevesUp” 
campaign, with donors providing much-needed units 
of blood to support medical personnel in their critical 
life-saving efforts. 

We donated more than 2,500 N95 
respirator masks to local hospital and 
emergency services. We also were able 
to secure an additional 2,000 surgical 
masks that were deployed to various 
healthcare facilities in the northeastern 
United States.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  61

RESILIENT COMMUNITYOur Communities continued

We approach community engagement from a 
regional perspective, tailoring our efforts to 
local needs and priorities throughout the more 
than 100 communities in which we operate. 
An important part of this engagement involves 
working with local leaders and chambers of 
commerce to educate our communities about 
Schnitzerʼs sustainable role as a recycler and 
share our perspective on business issues. We 
also support local non-profit organizations 
through board service, charitable giving, and 
volunteerism. Employees across Schnitzer are  
key contributors to this important effort.

Our paid volunteer time off (VTO) benefits 
program officially launched in fiscal 2020, and 
by 2025, we expect our employees to have 
contributed at least 10,000 hours giving back  

to their communities through this program.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  62

RESILIENT COMMUNITYEarth Day

Disaster Relief 

As a proud steward of our planetʼs natural resources, 
Schnitzer has long celebrated Earth Day with a day 
of service in our communities. We typically organize 
park cleanups and recycling collection events at 
our sites across the country. Unfortunately, the 
COVID-19 outbreak required us to cancel all April 
2020 in-person events related to Earth Day. Instead, 
we marked the day—which happened to be Earth 
Dayʼs 50th anniversary—by sharing with employees 
a list of ways they can live more sustainably at home.

Fortunately, by summer, Schnitzer employees were 
able to engage in some safe, socially distanced events. 
For instance, seven Schnitzer employees masked up 
and helped pick up litter during the “Pick Up and Pitch 
In” event at Piedmont Park in Atlanta, Georgia. 

In the Northeast, we also have provided financial 
support to the Mystic River Watershed Association 
between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2020.

When natural disasters strike, employees across the 
Schnitzer family come together to help colleagues 
near and far. Our charitable foundation, known as 
Recycling for a Better Tomorrow, helps employees 
and their families recover from disasters that occur 
in areas where we operate. When an event occurs, 
we notify employees by email, on our internal 
website, and through flyers posted in our facilities. 
Employees may make donations to the foundation, 
which the Company matches. In fiscal 2020, the 
foundation provided relief to employees affected by 
the series of earthquakes that struck Puerto Rico 
in the winter of 2019 and those impacted by the 
wildfires that occurred in California, Oregon, and 
Washington in the summer of 2020.

Helping Those With Less

Weʼre always looking for more ways to help people in need. Across the  
U.S. and Canada, other organizations and causes that we supported  
in fiscal 2020 included: 
  An annual holiday gift and donation drive for Raphael House of  

Portland, Oregon, a local women and childrenʼs domestic violence shelter

  A toy drive for Open Arms, a homeless shelter in Albany, GA
  Support for the Etowah County Humane Society and Crossroads  

Youth Boxing in Attalla, AL

  Collection and donation of cold weather clothing, school supplies, and baby supplies in Atlanta, GA
  Assistance for tornado victims in Chattanooga, TN
  Support for Ronald McDonald House and Feeding the Valley in Macon, GA
  Support for The Crucible, an industrial arts organization in Oakland, CA 

We also encourage our employees, as they are able, to make personal donations to philanthropic organizations 
that are meaningful to them. Just a few of the organizations supported by our employees include the 
Alzheimerʼs Association, American Heart Association, United Way, and various arts organizations.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  63

RESILIENT COMMUNITYHunger Relief

Schnitzerʼs National Food Bank Initiative has 
been in place since 2010. Since that time, 
weʼve raised $2.6 million in nonperishable 
food donations, cash contributions, volunteer 
time, and Schnitzer matching contributions, 
all of which amounted to donating 7.9 million 
meals to 40 local food banks. 

This support included helping food banks adapt to the 
challenges of COVID-19. For example, when the Emergency 
Food Network (EFN) in Pierce County, Washington 
began delivering food directly to recipientsʼ homes, they 
recognized that many individuals did not have can openers. 
Employees at Schnitzersʼ Tacoma facility not only donated 
hundreds of can openers but organized a community scrap 
drive and provided the proceeds to EFN. Pick-n-Pull 
organizes food drives seasonally, routinely collecting more 
than $100,000 for local food banks. During the fiscal 2020 
Summer Food Bank Fund Drive, Pick-n-Pull completed one 
of the most successful drives in our history, raising over 
$141,000, including a Company-matching donation.

“The Atlanta Community Food Bankʼs need 
has significantly increased since the beginning 
of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are thankful 
for the support of Schnitzer, which will help 
us fill the meal gap across Metro Atlanta and 
North Georgia by providing food to those in 
need during this time of crisis.”

Kyle Waide, President and CEO 
Atlanta Community Food Bank

“Since the outbreak of the virus and rise 
in unemployment, the number of families 
frequenting the food pantry has climbed 
rapidly. The food pantry is thankful to 
have the ability to aid families facing food 
insecurity during this crisis. It takes a village, 
and without the dedication of companies like 
Schnitzer, this work wouldnʼt be possible.”

Irene Cardillo, Managing Director 
Everett Grace Food Pantry 

“When the COVID-19 emergency took hold, we experienced a 1,000 percent increase in calls to the Food 
Bankʼs emergency food helpline. More than half were from households that had never reached out for 
help before. Months into our emergency response effort, ACCFB and our network of member agencies 
continue to respond to unprecedented need, and we are bracing for a prolonged response. Our partners 
will be critical for the duration of this crisis and beyond, and weʼre extremely grateful to Schnitzer for 
stepping up to nourish our neighbors, especially now.”

Suzan Bateson, Executive Director 
Alameda County Community Food Bank

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  64

RESILIENT COMMUNITYCommunity Safety

Schnitzerʼs unique business model 
provides an opportunity for us to 
foster community safety. 

For example, unneeded vehicles can be valuable 
training tools for police and fire departments. 
Pick-n-Pull locations regularly host K-9 
Certification Training for dogs that assist law 
enforcement officers. The dogs practice sniffing 
out various materials and, when training is 
complete, the materials are safely removed 
by law enforcement personnel. Our yards also 
serve as training grounds for fire departments, 
where trainees learn to use specialized tools 
and techniques for extracting passengers from 
vehicles in the event of an auto accident.

We also enhance safety by keeping weapons out of 
circulation. Since 2009, 17 local police departments 
have brought guns from closed criminal cases to our 
Everett, Massachusetts metals recycling facility, 
where they are destroyed and the metal components 
of these items recycled. We have supported the 
recycling of more than 10,000 weapons since this 
program began. 

“I am very proud we can partner with the Boston 
Police Department in this destruction and recycling 
program. Itʼs a great example of a successful  
public-private partnership.”

John Silva, Recycling Operations Director, 
Schnitzer Northeast 

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  65

RESILIENT COMMUNITYEducation

We understand the importance of educating the next generation 
about the value of recycling and sustainability. Thatʼs why we 
support a number of environmental education initiatives in 
partnership with schools and organizations near our facilities:

NORTHWEST

  In McMinnville, Oregon, we support organizations that include the 
Yamhill County Livestock Association in support of 4-H students, 
the McMinnville High School robotics team, and local trade school 
scholarships. Between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2020, we made 
donations to the Chemeketa Community College Foundation.

  Schnitzer supports and serves on the board of the Tacoma Youth 

Marine Foundation, which provides an outlet for local youth to learn 
maritime skills, leadership, and environmental awareness. We 
donated to the Foundation between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2020. We 
also partner with Citizens for a Healthy Bay on cleanups, patrols,  
and programs, and sponsor the organizationʼs annual gala.

  Schnitzer is an annual supporter of Civicorpsʼ Academic & Professional 
Pathway Program and sponsor of Civicorpsʼ High School Diploma 
Graduation for Resilient Young Adults. Between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 
2020, weʼve sponsored scholarships for students. Civicorps is a 
charter school located directly across from our Oakland facility and  
has a recycling program at the school.

NORTHEAST

  In Everett, Massachusetts, we support a local 
high schoolʼs mentorship program, including 
offering mock employment interviews.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  66

RESILIENT COMMUNITYEducation continued

SOUTHEAST

  The General Manager of our Macon, Georgia, metals facility advised the LEGO Robotics Club at  
Alexander II Magnet School. He helped guide the team in building a recycling robot that earned  
first place in a local competition.

  A cashier at the Atlanta metals facility organized a back-
to-school supply drive and block party for children in a 
disadvantaged neighborhood near Atlanta. At the event, 
students received backpacks and other supplies they 
needed for a successful school year.

  Each location in our Southeast region has “adopted” a 
nearby school, where Schnitzer employees collect and 
distribute school supplies, read to classes, organize 
mentoring projects, make career day presentations, and 
more, depending on where a school indicates the most 
need. For example, at an elementary school in Attalla, 
Alabama, we have focused on donating back-to-school 
supplies for kindergarten classrooms.

“Our new relationship with Attalla 
Elementary is quite rewarding to me 
personally and professionally, and 
makes me proud to be associated with a 
company that does care about serving the 
community. Our success is built on the 
trust and confidence of local industries 
and individuals, and it is our honor to be 
involved in efforts like these.”

Johnny Cross 
Commercial Operations Manager 
Schnitzer Southeast 

HAWAII

  Our Kapolei, Hawaii, metals recycling yard continues to support Aloha Aina 
Recycling Drives in partnership with the Kōkua Hawaiʼi Foundation, a non- 
profit specializing in community-based recycling and education programs. 
Schnitzer donates all proceeds from the drives to local schools, which are 
used to purchase much-needed classroom supplies.

  The Fishing for Energy program launched in 2008 as a partnership between 
Schnitzer, Covanta, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), 
and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Marine 
Debris Program. It provides a way for the fishing industry to safely and 
sustainably dispose of old and unusable fishing gear, which helps keep gear 
out of waterways where it can harm the environment. To date, the program 
has supported the collection of more than 4 million pounds of gear across 
12 U.S. states. At Schnitzerʼs Hawaii metals facility, metals are extracted 
from fishing gear, and fishing nets are shredded into pieces suitable for 
combustion. The net material is then converted to energy at a Covanta 
waste-to-energy facility. Schnitzer provides this service free of charge.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  67

RESILIENT COMMUNITYThere is no playbook for a year like this past one, but there 

certainly is a legacy at our Company of facing challenges 

head-on and successfully navigating through the toughest 
of times. Resourceful. Responsible. Resilient. These 
qualities ensure that Schnitzer meets the challenges of our 

time and works toward a more sustainable future. Our focus 

on People, Planet, and Profit never wavered as we faced 

these challenges head on and continued to work toward our 

ambitious sustainability goals. We are proud to serve our 

people, our shareholders, our customers, our suppliers,  

our communities, and our world.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  68 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  68

RESILIENT COMMUNITYGRI Content Index
General Disclosures

Disclosure  
Number

Description

GRI 102: General Disclosures

Organizational Profile — 2016 Standards

2020 Reference/Response

102-1

102-2

102-3

102-4

102-5

102-6

102-7

102-8

Name of the organization

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.

Activities, brands, products, services

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile/What We Do  
2020 10-K page 2

Location of headquarters

Location of operations

Ownership and legal form

Markets served

Scale of the organization

Information on employees and other workers

Portland, Oregon

2020 10-K page 28

2020 10-K page 31

2020 10-K pages 3-11

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile 
2020 10-K page 33

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile  
Resilient Workplace/Our People  
2020 10-K page 13

SASB Index  
2020 10-K pages 2-3, 5-8, 10-11, 64

102-9

Supply chain

102-10

Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chain

2020 10-K pages 3, 64

102-11

Precautionary Principle or approach

Schnitzer does not follow the Precautionary Principle, but has a 
comprehensive enterprise risk management process.

102-12

102-13

External initiatives

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality

Membership of associations

Resilient Company/Industry Engagement

Strategy — 2016 Standards

102-14

102-15

Statement from senior decision-maker

Resilient Company/CEO Message

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Business/Our Business  
2020 10-K pages 14-27

Ethics & Integrity — 2016 Standards

102-16

Values, principles, standards and norms of 
behavior

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile/Our Core Values  
Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance

102-17

Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance/Ethics Program  
One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 5

Governance — 2016 Standards

102-18

Governance structure

Resilient Company/Sustainability Governance  
2020 Proxy Statement pages 27-35

102-19

102-20

Delegating authority

Resilient Company/Sustainability Governance

Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics

Resilient Company/CEO Message  
Resilient Company/CSO Message 
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals 
Resilient Company/Sustainability Principles 
Resilient Company/Sustainability Governance

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  69

Appendix 
102-24

102-25

102-26

102-27

102-28

102-29

102-31

102-32

Disclosure  
Number

102-22

Description

Composition of the highest governance body and 
its committees

2020 Reference/Response

2020 Proxy Statement pages 23-35

102-23

Chair of the highest governance body

Nominating and selecting the highest governance 
body

Resilient Company/CEO Message  
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
2020 Proxy Statement page III/Chairman, President & CEO Letter  
to Shareholders

Resilient Company/CEO Message  
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
2020 Proxy Statement page 31

Conflicts of interest

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 13

Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategy

Resilient Company/CEO Message 
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
2020 Proxy Statement pages III, 9, 26, 36-41

Collective knowledge of highest governance body

2020 Proxy Statement pages 23-26, 30

Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance

Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impacts

Review of economic, environmental, and social 
topics

Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 
reporting

2020 Proxy Statement pages 38-39

Resilient Company/CEO Message 
Resilient Company/Sustainability Principles 
Resilient Company/Sustainability Governance 
2020 10-K pages 14-27, 35-36

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
2020 Proxy Statement page III/Chairman, President &  
CEO Letter to Shareholders

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics, & Compliance  
One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct pages 4-5, 35

102-33

Communicating critical concerns

102-34

102-35

102-36

102-37

102-38

102-39

Nature and total number of critical concerns

This information is confidential.

Remuneration policies

2020 Proxy Statement pages 50, 55

Process for determining remuneration

2020 Proxy Statement pages 50, 55

Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration

2020 Proxy Statement pages 50, 55

Annual total compensation ratio

2020 Proxy Statement page 66

Percentage increase in annual total compensation 
ratio

2020 Proxy Statement page 46

Stakeholder Engagement — 2016 Standards

102-40

List of stakeholder groups

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality  
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

102-41

102-42

Collective bargaining agreements

2020 10-K page 13

Identifying and selecting stakeholders

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality  
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality  
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

102-43

Approach to stakeholder engagement

102-44

Key topics and concerns raised

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality

Reporting Practice — 2016 Standards

102-45

102-46

102-47

Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements

2020 10-K page 64

Defining report content and topic boundaries

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality

List of material topics

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  70

AppendixDisclosure  
Number

Description

102-48

Restatements (reconciliations) of information

Changes in reporting

Reporting period

Date of most recent report

Reporting cycle

2020 Reference/Response

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices & Materiality 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

No significant changes in sustainability reporting.

Fiscal Year 2020: September 1, 2019–August 31, 2020

Fiscal Year 2019

Annual

Contact point for questions regarding the report

Sustainability@schn.com

Claims of reporting in accordance with the  
GRI Standards

This report has been prepared in accordance with the  
GRI Standards: Core option

GRI content index

External assurance

GRI content index

Resilient Company/Reporting Practices  
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

GRI 200: Economic

Economic Performance — 2016 Standards

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile  
2020 10-K pages 32-33

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

201-1

Direct economic value generated and distributed

Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile  
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
2020 10-K pages 32-33

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile  
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles, & Governance  
2020 10-K pages 32-33

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile  
Resilient Business/Our Business  
2020 10-K pages 32-33

CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A-)

102-49

102-50

102-51

102-52

102-53

102-54

102-55

102-56

103-1

103-2

201-2

201-3

201-4

Defined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plans

2020 10-K pages 87-90 
2020 Proxy Statement pages 23-35

Financial assistance received from government

Potential government incentive mechanisms are occasionally evaluated 
and considered in analysis of site/facility projects/investment activities. 
No public institutions hold any major shares in Schnitzer.

Anti-Corruption — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

205-1

205-2

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

The management approach and its components

Evaluation of the management approach

Operations assessed for risks related to corruption

Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance/ 
Anticorruption Program

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance/ 
Anticorruption Program

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance/ 
Anticorruption Program

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance/ 
Anticorruption Program  
One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct pages 18-20

Resilient Workplace/Integrity, Ethics & Compliance/ 
Ethics Program  
One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct pages 18-20

Anti-Competitive Behavior — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

206-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 16

The management approach and its components

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 16

Evaluation of the management approach

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 16

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,  
anti-trust, and monopoly practices

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 16

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  71

AppendixDisclosure  
Number

Description

GRI 300: Environmental

Materials — 2016 Standards

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

301-1

301-2

Materials used by weight or volume

Recycled input materials used

301-3

Reclaimed products and their packaging materials

Energy — 2016 Standards

2020 Reference/Response

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
Resilient Business/Our Business  
2020 10-K pages 2-10

Resilient Company/Corporate Profile  
Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Business/Our Business  
2020 10-K pages 2-10

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals  
Resilient Business/Our Business  
2020 10-K pages 2-10

Resilient Business/Our Business  
2020 10-K pages 2-10

100% — As a recycling company, and manufacturer of steel using 
recycled scrap metal, virtually all material inputs into our primary 
products and services are recycled materials.

Not applicable — While many of our products are considered to be 
“reclaimed”, they are predominately shipped void of packaging materials.

103-1

103-2

103-3

302-1

302-2

302-3

302-4

302-5

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

The management approach and its components

Evaluation of the management approach

Energy consumption within the organization

Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction 
Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

Energy consumption outside of the organization

CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A-)

Energy intensity

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Reduction of energy consumption

Reductions in energy requirements of products  
and services

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction 
Appendix/SASB Index

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Water and Effluents — 2018 Standards

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

303-1

303-2

Interaction with water as a shared resource

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

Management of water discharge-related impacts

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  72

AppendixDisclosure  
Number

Description

303-3

Water withdrawal

303-4

303-5

Water discharge

Water consumption

Emissions — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

305-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

The management approach and its components

Evaluation of the management approach

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

305-2

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

GHG emissions intensity

Reduction of GHG emissions

305-3

305-4

305-5

305-7

2020 Reference/Response

Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000  
CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

CDP Water Questionnaire Response (A List)

Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction 
Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction 
Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000  
CDP Climate Questionnaire Response (A-)

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction

Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction 
Appendix/SASB Index

Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 
other significant air emissions

Appendix/SASB Index

Waste — 2020 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

306-1

306-2

306-3

306-4

306-5

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

The management approach and its components

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

Evaluation of the management approach

Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impacts

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals  
Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

Management of significant waste-related impacts

Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

Waste generated

Waste diverted from disposal

Waste directed to disposal

Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

Appendix/SASB Index 
Appendix/S&P Global Assurance statement: AA1000

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  73

AppendixDisclosure  
Number

Description

2020 Reference/Response

Environmental Compliance — 2016 Standards

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction  
Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance  
Resilient Operations/Overview  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction  
Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals  
Resilient Operations/Energy Efficiency & Emissions Reduction  
Resilient Operations/Responsible Water Use  
Resilient Operations/Minimizing & Managing Waste

307-1

Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations

2020 10-K pages 29-30

GRI 400: Social

Occupational Health and Safety — 2018 Standards

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Resilient Workplace/Overview  
Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Workplace/Overview  
Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness 

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals  
Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

403-1

403-2

403-3

403-4

403-5

Occupational health and safety management 
system

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigation

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Occupational health services

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Worker training on occupational health and safety

403-6

Promotion of worker health

403-7

Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships

403-9

Work-related injuries

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness

Resilient Workplace/Safety 
Resilient Workplace/Health & Wellness 
Appendix/SASB Index

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  74

AppendixDisclosure  
Number

Description

2020 Reference/Response

Diversity and Equal Opportunity — 2016 Standards

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

405-1

Evaluation of the management approach

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Non-Discrimination — 2016 Standards

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

Evaluation of the management approach

Resilient Workplace/Overview 
Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Workplace/Overview 
Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Resilient Workplace/Overview 
Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Workplace/Overview 
Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Resilient Workplace/Employee Engagement & Inclusion 
Resilient Workplace/Talent Management

Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 
taken

The Company does not tolerate any form of discrimination, has a 
non-discrimination policy that is acknowledged by all employees, and 
comprehensively investigates and addresses any concerns raised.

Human Rights Assessment — 2016 Standards

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 32

The management approach and its components

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 32

Evaluation of the management approach

One Schnitzer, One Code/Code of Conduct page 32

Operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews or impact assessments

103-3

406-1

103-1

103-2

103-3

412-1

Schnitzer operates in fully developed economies, in urban environments 
across the United States, including Puerto Rico, and western Canada 
— all of which have common arrangements for the protection of people 
at large. None of our workforce can be characterized as vulnerable as 
a group. However, issues of unconscious biases, including bullying and 
intimidation may arise, and are addressed in our Code of Conduct, Human 
Rights policy, and other Company policies, which include the rights to 
independent representation, independent internal hearing (separated 
from direct line management reporting) and whistle-blower provisions.

All employees receive training on our Code of Conduct upon joining 
the company. All Schnitzer employees, both union and non-union, 
participate in annual training on our Company’s Core Values, which 
includes instruction on our Code of Conduct and ethical behavior.

412-2

Employee training on human rights policies  
or procedures

Local Communities — 2016 Standards

103-1

103-2

103-3

413-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Resilient Community/Overview

The management approach and its components

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals; Principles; Governance 
Resilient Community/Overview

Evaluation of the management approach

Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programs

Resilient Company/Sustainability Goals  
Resilient Community/Overview

Resilient Community/Overview

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  75

AppendixSustainability Accounting  
Standards Board (SASB) Index

The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) created a set of industry-specific sustainability standards 
that cover financially material issues that may be relevant to companies in each industry. Schnitzer is reporting to 
SASBʼs Iron & Steel Producers Industry Standard for fiscal 2020 (September 1, 2019 through August 31, 2020). 

Metric

Category

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Activity Metrics

Production Activities

Raw steel 
production, 
percentage from: 
(1) basic oxygen 
furnace processes

Raw steel 
production, 
percentage from:  
(2) electric arc 
furnace processes

Quantitative Metric 

EM-IS-000.A Not applicable: We do not produce steel via basic oxygen furnace (BOF) 

tons (t), 
Percentage 
(%)

processes. All steel we produce is via electric arc furnace (EAF) processes. 
From a GHG emissions standpoint, EAF steelmaking results in far lower GHG 
emissions than BOF steelmaking. Comparable CO2e emissions factors per 
metric ton of steel produced are: 1.83 for global steel production, 1.59 for U.S. 
integrated steel production, 0.65 for all U.S. steel production, and 0.21 for U.S. 
EAF steel production. Our emissions factor is estimated to be as low as 0.15.

Quantitative Metric 

EM-IS-000.A 470,829

tons (t), 
Percentage 
(%)

100%

Melt shop production: Our melt shop includes an EAF, a ladle 
refining furnace with enhanced steel chemistry refining 
capabilities, and a five-strand continuous billet caster, 
permitting the mill to produce special alloy grades of steel not 
currently produced by other mills on the west coast of the U.S. 
The melt shop produced 519 thousand short tons of steel in 
the form of billets during fiscal 2020. The substantial majority 
of these billets are reheated in a natural gas-fueled furnace 
and are then hot-rolled through the rolling mill to produce 
finished steel products. The rolling mill has an effective annual 
production capacity under current conditions of approximately 
580 thousand short tons of finished steel products.

The primary feedstock (over 90% by weight) for the 
manufacture of our finished steel products is ferrous 
recycled scrap metal. Our steel mill obtains substantially 
all of its scrap metal raw material requirements from our 
integrated metals recycling and joint venture operations.

In fiscal 2020, we sold 505 thousand short tons of finished 
steel products, i.e., rebar and wire rod, as well as over 
4 million metric tons of ferrous scrap metal, including 
intercompany sales to our steel mill) for use in EAF 
steelmaking in the U.S. and around the world.

To learn more please review the Our Business section of  
our 2020 Sustainability Report.

Total iron ore 
production

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-000.B Not applicable: We do not consume or sell iron ore in the production of 

(t)

our steel products. Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap 
for use in EAF steelmaking is estimated to conserve 2,425 pounds of iron 
ore. Therefore, by extension, our operations support the conservation of 
more than 9.7 billion pounds of iron ore annually. Additionally, we produce 
three valuable co-products; millscale, baghouse dust, and slag. Millscale 
functions as a metallurgical input to steelmaking, supporting the avoidance 
of iron ore production and conservation of raw iron ore, while baghouse dust 
avoids zinc production, and slag avoids cement and gravel production.

Total coking coal 
production

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-000.C Not applicable: We do not consume or sell coking coal in the production of 

(t)

our steel products. Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap 
for use in EAF steelmaking is estimated to conserve 1,389 pounds of coal. 
Therefore, by extension our operations support the conservation of more 
than 5.5 billion pounds of coal annually.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  76

AppendixSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Metric

Category

Accounting Metrics

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Gross global 
Scope 1 emissions, 
percentage 
covered under 
emissions-limiting 
regulations

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-110a.1 146,980

(t) CO2e, 
Percentage 
(%)

0%

Currently, 0% of our gross global Scope 1 emissions are 
covered under emissions-limiting regulations. We are 
required to annually report GHG emissions from our steel mill 
to the State of Oregon Department of Environmental Quality 
(ODEQ) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA). In March of 2020, the Governor of Oregon issued 
an executive order directing state agencies to take certain 
actions to reduce and regulate GHG emissions, including 
development of a “cap and reduce” program that would cover 
large stationary sources. In Oregon, our steel manufacturing 
and metal shredding operations may be subject to emissions-
limiting regulations in the near-term that may impact 
approximately 60% of our Scope 1 emissions.

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

Discussion of 
long-term and 
short-term strategy 
or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, 
emissions 
reduction targets, 
and an analysis 
of performance 
against those 
targets

EM-IS-110a.2 Our sustainability goals, set to a baseline of fiscal 2019 and targeting 

fiscal 2025, are aligned with our long-term business success. For Scope 1 
emissions (including production process emissions), we have set a fiscal 
2025 target, against a fiscal 2019 base year and a fiscal 2020 start year, to 
reduce absolute Scope 1 emissions from our recycling operations by 25%. 
Mechanisms for achieving this target may include (1) capital investments 
in emissions control and air pollutant elimination technologies on our metal 
shredding operations, (2) capital investments to achieve greater fuel-
economy by retrofit and/or replacement of on-road transport vehicles and 
off-road equipment, (3) capital investments to electrify equipment that 
is currently fuel-consuming, (4) sourcing a greater proportion of fuels 
with suitable low-carbon fuel alternatives (i.e., biodiesel and ethanol fuel 
blends), and (5) capital investments in other energy efficiency technologies 
for water and space heating applications that reduce our consumption of 
natural gas. Limiting factors to achieving this goal may include (1) a shortfall 
in or inability to make adequate capital investments, (2) a shortfall in the 
emission reduction performance of control technologies acquired and 
deployed, (3) an inability to acquire and deploy adequate emission reduction 
controls and energy efficiency technologies, and (4) an inability to source 
suitable low-carbon fuel alternatives. In fiscal 2020, we achieved a 15% 
reduction in Scope 1 emissions from our recycling operations, and a 7% 
reduction in gross global Scope 1 emissions, compared to the previous year. 
We have obtained external assurance, by S&P Global-Trucost in accordance 
with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, for 100% site coverage 
of Scope 1 emissions from our consumption of natural gas and fuels 
(representing 63% of gross global Scope 1 emissions).

To learn more, please review the Sustainability Goals and Energy Efficiency & 
Emissions Reduction sections of our 2020 Sustainability Report.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  77

AppendixSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Metric

Category

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Air Emissions

(1) CO

(2) NOx (excluding N2O)

(3) SOx

(4) PM10

(5) MnO

(6) Pb

(7) VOCs

(8) PAHs

Quantitative

Metric tons 
(t)

EM-IS-120a.1

Energy Management

(1) Total energy 
consumed

(2) percentage grid 
electricity

(3) percentage 
renewable

(1) Total fuel 
consumed

Quantitative

Gigajoules 
(GJ), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-130a.1

254

1,172

77

82

n/a

n/a

103

<1

3,012,176

47%

<3%

1,601,573

(2) percentage 
coal

(3) percentage 
natural gas

Quantitative

Gigajoules 
(GJ), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-130a.2

0%

60%

We report on distinct air emissions associated with the 
consumption of fuels by our on-road transport vehicles 
and off-road equipment only. The emittance of some of 
these pollutants (e.g., VOCs) from other sources, such as 
production processes or the consumption of natural gas, may 
be reported on within our gross global Scope 1 emissions, in 
terms of metric tons of CO2e.

In fiscal 2020, we experienced a 4% decrease in total energy 
consumed compared to the previous year. Sources of energy 
consumed by our operations include grid electricity, natural 
gas, and other fuels (listed below). We have obtained external 
assurance, by S&P Global-Trucost in accordance with AA1000AS 
Type 2 moderate-level assurance, for 100% site coverage of 
total energy consumed. 

To learn more, please review the Energy Efficiency & Emissions 
Reduction section of our 2020 Sustainability Report.

In fiscal 2020, we experienced a 6% decrease in total fuel 
consumed compared to the previous year. Sources of fuel 
consumed by our operations include natural gas, diesel,  
bio-diesel blends, gasoline, ethanol blends, fuel oil, kerosene, 
propane, propylene, ametalene, and acetylene. We have 
obtained external assurance, by S&P Global-Trucost in 
accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, 
for 100% site coverage of total fuel consumed. 

To learn more please review the Energy Efficiency & Emissions 
Reduction section of our 2020 Sustainability Report.

Not applicable: We do not consume coal as a source of fuel. 
Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap for use in 
EAF steelmaking is estimated to conserve 1,389 pounds of 
coal. Therefore, by extension our operations support the 
conservation of more than 5.5 billion pounds of coal, annually.

In fiscal 2020, we experienced a less than 1% decrease in 
total natural gas consumed compared to the previous year. 
Our primary use of natural gas is in the reheat furnace of our 
steel manufacturing operations, where pre-casted billets are 
reheated and then processed through our rolling mill to produce 
our finished steel products—rebar and wire rod. Our secondary 
use of natural gas consumption is in regenerative thermal 
oxidizers of our metal shredding operations where captured 
VOC air emissions are treated to reduce GHG emissions from 
our shredding production processes.

(4) percentage 
renewable

<1%

We consume a small amount of biodiesel-blended and 
ethanol-blended fuel in our on-road transport vehicles  
and off-road equipment.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  78

AppendixSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Metric

Category

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Water Management

(1) Total fresh 
water withdrawn

(2) percentage 
recycled

(3) percentage in 
regions with High 
or Extremely High 
Baseline Water 
Stress

Waste Management

Amount of waste 
generated

percentage 
hazardous

percentage 
recycled

Quantitative

Thousand 
cubic 
meters (m3), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-140a.1

1,286

70%

2%

In fiscal 2020, we experienced a 9% increase in total fresh 
water withdrawn compared to the previous year. We have 
obtained external assurance, by S&P Global-Trucost in 
accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, 
for 100% site coverage of total fresh water withdrawn. 

To learn more, please review the Responsible Water Use 
section of our 2020 Sustainability Report.

This figure is an estimate of water recycled over total 
water usage within our steel manufacturing and metals 
shredding operations only, representative of 75% of total 
water withdrawn. At an enterprise level, the percentage of 
total water recycled is estimated to range from 50%-60%, 
based on particular operating activities within the reporting 
period, that may differ between individual facilities, where 
such operating practices and measurements are capable of 
being tracked. Uncertainty of the percentage of total water 
recycled may be related to variables such as a (1) weather-
related events (e.g., floods, hurricanes, storms, wildfires, 
heat waves, and droughts) and (2) technologies for the 
collection and management of data on water consumption, 
usage, recycling, recovery, and re-use. 

This figure represents the percentage of total fresh water 
resources indirectly withdrawn from areas characterized  
to have high or extremely high baseline water stress, from  
(1) third-party purchased municipal water sources and  
(2) on-site, well-extracted, renewable groundwater sources. 
Approximately 20% of our locationsʼ water withdrawal 
footprints make up this figure. At this time, water availability 
directly linked to the respective locations of our operations  
is not believed to be of significant concern, as water is not a 
direct, raw material input of our products, and our water uses 
in operations are limited in scope to, predominately, cooling 
in steelmaking and metal shredding production processes, 
emergency-response fire suppression, emissions control, 
dust suppression, and, to a lesser extent, landscaping 
irrigation, human sanitation, and consumption.

Quantitative

Metric 
tons (t), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-150a.1

625,666

1%

92%

In fiscal 2020, we experienced a 14% decrease in waste 
generated compared to the previous year. We have obtained 
external assurance by S&P Global-Trucost in accordance 
with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level assurance, for 100% 
site coverage of waste generated.

To learn more, please review the Minimizing & Managing 
Waste section of our 2020 Sustainability Report.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  79

AppendixSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Metric

Category

Workforce Health & Safety

(1) Total recordable 
incident rate 
(TRIR) for full-time 
employees

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

In fiscal 2020, we achieved a 32% decrease in our TRIR and a 
46% decrease in our NMFR, compared to the previous year. 
Our fatality rate was 0, as we had no fatalities; same as in the 
previous year.

To learn more, please review the Safety section of our 2020 
Sustainability Report.

1.91

0

42.68

Quantitative

Rate

EM-IS-320a.1

Not applicable: We do not report on rates exclusive to “contract employees.”

(2) fatality rate 
for full-time 
employees

(3) near miss 
frequency rate 
(NMFR) for full-
time employees

(1) TRIR for 
contract 
employees

(2) fatality rate 
for contract 
employees

(3) NMFR 
for contract 
employees

Supply Chain Management

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

Discussion of 
the process for 
managing iron 
ore and/or coking 
coal sourcing 
risks arising from 
environmental and 
social issues

EM-IS-430a.1 Not applicable: A process for managing iron ore and/or coking coal sourcing 

risks is not necessary because we do not consume iron ore or coking coal. 
Rather, the recycling of 1 metric ton of ferrous scrap for use in EAF steelmaking 
is estimated to conserve 2,425 pounds of iron ore and 1,389 pounds of coal. 
Therefore, by extension our operations support the conservation of more 
than 9.7 billion pounds of iron ore and 5.5 billion pounds of coal, annually. 
Additionally, we produce three valuable co-products; millscale, baghouse 
dust, and slag. Millscale functions as a metallurgical input to steelmaking, 
supporting the avoidance iron ore production and conservation of raw iron 
ore, while baghouse dust avoids zinc production, and slag avoids cement 
and gravel production.

In regard to any existing or projected risks or constraints in obtaining other 
raw materials: We believe we operate the only mini-mill in the western U.S. 
that obtains the majority of its scrap metal feedstock from an integrated 
metals recycling operation—our metals recycling operations provide our 
steel mill with a mix of recycled metal grades, which allows the mill to 
achieve optimum efficiency in its melting operations. Although the synergies 
from our integrated operations allow us to be our own source for some raw 
materials, particularly with respect to scrap metal for our steel manufacturing 
operations, we rely on third-party suppliers for other input needs, including 
inputs to steel production such as graphite electrodes, alloys, and other 
required consumables.

2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  80

Appendix2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  81

Appendix  Assurance statement: AA1000 Trucost was engaged by SScchhnniittzzeerr  SStteeeell  IInndduussttrriieess,,  IInncc.. to provide assurance of the environmental sustainability data disclosed within its 2020 Sustainability Report, and its 2021 CDP “Climate” and “Water”  questionnaire responses.  IInntteennddeedd  uusseerrss  The intended users of this assurance statement are the management and stakeholders of Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (hereafter “Schnitzer”). RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittiieess  ooff  SScchhnniittzzeerr  aanndd  aassssuurraannccee  pprroovviiddeerr  The management of Schnitzer has sole responsibility for the preparation and content of its Sustainability Report and CDP questionnaire responses. Trucost’s statement represents its independent and balanced opinion on the content and accuracy of the disclosures and environmental sustainability data held within.  AAssssuurraannccee  ssttaannddaarrdd  Trucost undertook the assurance in accordance with AA1000AS (2008 with 2018 addendum) Type 2 moderate-level assurance, covering:  Evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2018) Principles of inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, and impact (the Principles).  The reliability of specified environmental performance information (energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, water use, waste generated, and waste disposed of). Trucost used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the GHG Protocol to evaluate Schnitzer’s performance information and adherence to the Principles.   SSccooppee  aanndd  lliimmiittaattiioonnss  Trucost was engaged to assure the data and disclosures in Schnitzer’s 2020 external reporting, encompassing the period of 1 September 2019 – 31 August 2020. Trucost was asked to assure reporting for specific KPIs. Schnitzer took an operational control approach. Trucost verified the environmental impacts, as calculated by Schnitzer, within the table alongside. MMeetthhooddoollooggyy  Trucost’s assurance activities included the following:  Review of the processes by which Schnitzer defines the environmental sustainability issues that are relevant and material to its operations and its stakeholders.  Interviews with managers responsible for environmental sustainability performance and data collection  Assessment of the extent to which Schnitzer’s environmental sustainability activities adheres to the Principles  Review of processes and systems used to gather and consolidate environmental sustainability data  Verification of data accuracy for a selection of sites, including an audit of conversion factors and calculations.  1  1The scope 1 emissions included within the assurance do not include production process emissions associated with any of Schnitzer’s steelmaking, metal shredding, and recycling, or end-of-life vehicle dismantling operating activities. The following fuels types are included under the scope 1 category; natural gas, as well as transportation and equipment fuels such as Diesel, Biodiesel-blends, Gasoline, Ethanol-blends, Fuel Oil, Kerosene, Propane, Propylene, Ametalene and Acetylene. 2The value reported under the Beneficial Re-use/Recycling category is inclusive of materials for re-use/recycling; materials used for energy recovery and may include U.S. federal RCRA materials. 3The value reported under U.S. federal RCRA may be inclusive of both disposition types i.e. by landfill disposal, and re-use/recycling. The reported regulated waste quantities exclusively represent electric arc-furnace (EAF) baghouse dust, one of three valuable co-products of the steelmaking process. General note: Restatements due to reconciliation of invoices and use of updated emission factors are stated for the FY19 period for each KPI. 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  82

Appendix  Assurance statement: AA1000 SStteevveenn  BBuulllloocckk  Global Head of Research and Innovation   PPRRIINNCCIIPPLLEE  CCOOMMMMEENNTTSS  IInncclluussiivviittyy::  the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability  Schnitzer’s primary stakeholder groups are its shareholders, employees, and local communities. Also, Schnitzer engages with regulators, customers, suppliers, and relevant non-profit associations. The organization provides sufficient avenues for all stakeholders to register their feedback and voice their concerns. Schnitzer engages with its stakeholders using standard methods such as surveys, meetings, newsletters, and periodic notifications. In FY20, Schnitzer increased its frequency of engaging with its local communities by scheduling quarterly interactions with appointed working groups. These interactions served to discuss mutual goals and to leverage opportunities. Schnitzer’s engagement with its employees was also ramped up in FY20 to facilitate more transparency. Some highlights included the issuing of weekly reports and virtual town halls from the company’s CEO on EHS, ESG, and market and business dynamics.   MMaatteerriiaalliittyy: determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders    Schnitzer derives insights on its sustainability strategy from quarterly reviews, annual updates, and tri-annual assessments on Materialityin the context of Sustainability including environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG). Materiality assessments are conducted with the participation of subject matter experts and senior management, and external parties where appropriate. Accordingly, the material issues identified along with traditional business risk are comparable to previous years. Climate , regulatory and physical risks from acute weather events are highlighted in the Materiality Assessment due to their potential impact on the supply chain and its operations.     RReessppoonnssiivveenneessss::  an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders   Schnitzer has allocated environmental reserves, and capital expenditures tied to climate considerations. These are integrated into the organization's financial planning and audit review procedures on an annual basis. In FY20, Schnitzer focused on the development of advanced metal recovery technologies to support the production of “low-carbon goods” and “circular economy” recycling services, such as scrap metal products used to produce finished steel products. The supply of these goods to the broader supply chain for the production and installation of technologies and infrastructure that support the development of low-carbon economies are also initiatives that Schnitzer considers as opportunities. Further, the organization is also taking a leadership position within the metal shredding industry by properly quantifying air emissions and by installing advanced water treatment and air emission control systems.   IImmppaacctt::  Organizations should monitor, measure, and be accountable for how their actions impact broader ecosystems   In FY20, the absolute energy consumption is lower in comparison to the previous years due to lower production volumes, largely related to COVID-19 in the latter half of the fiscal year. In FY21, Schnitzer will roll out new data management systems that will facilitateimproved monitoring and management of energy consumption. Additionally, members of the Board and C-Suite will continue to be incentivized to support and work on sustainability-related goals anchored to FY25 targets. Overall, these goals have encouraged management to seek to develop climate-impact  and water-security related performance improvement projects. FFiinnddiinnggss,,  ccoonncclluussiioonnss,,  aanndd  rreeccoommmmeennddaattiioonnss  The Principles: Nothing came to Trucost’s attention to suggest that Schnitzer’s CDP Response does not adhere to the AA1000 Principles. Data reliability: Schnitzer has implemented rigorous processes to collect and aggregate global energy consumption, GHG emissions, water use, and waste generation. Upon evaluating this system, Trucost found that data was accurate overall and any minor corrections were made as necessary.  AAssssuurraannccee  pprroovviiddeerr    Trucost has been researching, standardizing, and validating corporate environmental performance data since 2000. Trucost’s research team has the relevant professional and technical competencies and experience to conduct an assurance to the AA1000 standard. Trucost has conducted this assurance independently and impartially and in compliance with S&P Global’s policies and procedures, including its Code of Business Ethics that provide a framework relating to ethical conduct, conflict of interest, and compliance with law.       TTrruuccoosstt,,  ppaarrtt  ooff  SS&&PP  GGlloobbaall  LLoonnddoonn,,  NNoovveemmbbeerr  22002200        2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  83

AppendixNNOOTTIICCEE    ©2020 S&P Trucost Limited (“Trucost”), an affiliate of S&P Global Market Intelligence. All rights reserved. The materials have been prepared solely for informational purposes based upon information generally available to the public and from sources believed to be reliable. No content contained in these materials (including text, data, reports, images, photos, graphics, charts, animations, videos, research, valuations, models, software or other application or output therefrom or any part thereof (“Content”) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of Trucost or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global). S&P Global, its affiliates and their licensors do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global, its affiliates and their licensors are not responsible for any errors or omissions, regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS. S&P GLOBAL, ITS AFFILIATES AND LICENSORS DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global, its affiliates or their licensors be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages.  Trucost’s opinions, quotes and credit-related and other analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase, hold, or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the suitability of any security. Trucost assumes no obligation to update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making investment and other business decisions.  S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result, certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that is not available to other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process.  S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and www.ratingsdirect.com (subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via S&P Global publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees. 