TRANSFORMING WATER.
ENRICHING LIFE.

2019

SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

TABLE OF 
CONTENTS

CEO LETTER

OVERVIEW

  05  Who We Are
  08  Sustainability Highlights
  1 0   Creating Value For Our Stakeholders 
  1 1
  13  Our Organizational Partners
  15   Materiality and Our Approach

The Challenges of Water

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

  1 8 Helping Our Customers Meet Their Sustainability Goals
  24  Our Environmental Impact

OUR PEOPLE 

  3 1   Environmental Health & Safety
  35  Diversity and Inclusion
  36  Enabling Our Employees to Succeed
  41  Charitable Giving
  45  How our Employees Serve Our Communities

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

  50  Our Board of Directors
  5 1   Pay for Performance
  53  Ethics and Compliance
  55  Our Supply Chain

This report utilizes GRI Standards. The reporting period for the metrics in this report are generally for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (FY19) (Oct 1., 2018-Sept. 30, 2019) unless otherwise noted.

As our communities face serious issues 
pertaining to water quantity and quality, we 
continue to develop innovative solutions to 
help the world solve complex water challenges. 

LETTER FROM OUR CEO 

At the core of our business, we transform water and enrich life. 
Evoqua is a clean water technology company that purifies water for our 
customers to protect future generations. This drives us in our work to 
help our customers meet their sustainability goals in how they use and 
reuse water. 

As our communities face serious issues pertaining to human health and 
wellness as well as water quantity and quality, we continue to develop 
innovative solutions to help the world solve complex water challenges. 
We welcome the responsibility we have in furthering the mission of the 
United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly 
SDG 6, Clean Water and Sanitation.  

As you will see in our 2019 Sustainability Report, we are working hard 
to improve our internal sustainability in three key areas, those being 
continued good governance practices, the environment and playing our 
part in corporate social responsibility. 

completed our first materiality assessment in 2019 with 
internal and external stakeholders to inform the creation of our 
sustainability goals. 

We thrive on our high-performance culture where employees 
are driven by our mission to transform water and enrich life.  
Sustainability drives our business decisions to uphold transparent 
business practices, maintain a resilient business strategy, improve 
our environment and serve our employees and communities. 

Our dedication to sustainability and our promise to "be better 
tomorrow than today is" deeply rooted at Evoqua. Please engage 
with us on our journey to help build a more sustainable water 
future for all.

Sincerely, 

In the future, this report will grow with more depth, detail and 
transparency as we launch our internal mechanisms for managing our 
internal sustainability. To chart a path to become more sustainable, we

RON KEATING 
PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

2019  
OVERVIEW   

WHO WE 
ARE

EVOQUA HAS THE REACH OF A 
GLOBAL BUSINESS WHILE EMBRACING 
AN ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT.

Our innovative products have been solving the world’s 
water problems for more than 100 years. Today, 
we are building on that strong history of success - 
transforming water for our customers and enriching 
the lives of consumers. 

OUR PURPOSE
TRANSFORMING WATER. 
ENRICHING LIFE.

OUR MISSION
DOUBLE OUR REACH

OUR CULTURE
HIGH PERFORMANCE

INTEGRITY
do what’s  
right

OUR VALUES
CUSTOMERS
the foundation 
of our success

PERFORMANCE
deliver on 
promises

OVERVIEW

05

ABOUT EVOQUA:
EXPANDING OUR 
IMPACT 

As of September 30, 2019

~4,150

team members 

163

locations 

10

countries

$1.44B

FY19 revenue

200+K

installations

Evoqua is a global leader in water solutions, headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  As of September 30, 2019, we had approximately 4,150 team 
members. We operate 163 sites located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Australia, China, Singapore, India and 
Korea, including 19 manufacturing facilities, seven research and development facilities and 97 service branches.

We are a small-mid cap company with $1.44 billion in revenue for FY19.  We are present in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific serving customers across 
municipal, industrial and commercial markets. For more information on our financials, see our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 
30, 2019, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), our other periodic reports filed with the SEC and our annual report available on our 
website.

Microelectronics

Wastewater

Healthcare & 
Pharma

Refining & 
Chemicals

Drinking Water

Power

Food & 
Beverage

Commercial & 
Institutional 

Manufacturing 

Aquatics & Pools

HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR PROGRESS 
IN SUSTAINABILITY 

REDUCED 
WATER 
USAGE BY 
26%[1]

RENEWABLE 
ENERGY TO 
POWER 5,000 
HOMES[2]

WALKED 2,500 
MILES TO 
RAISE FUNDS 
FOR CHARITY

Five of our primary locations  
reduced their water usage by 26% 
since FY17.

Our anaerobic digestion systems 
produce enough clean renewable 
energy to meet the needs of over 
5,000 homes/day.

Evoqua employees walked 2,500 
miles to raise funds for the 
organization, charity: water. This is 
the distance from San Francisco, CA 
to New York, New York. 

[1]This covers our facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Holland, Michigan; Tewksbury, Massachusetts; Thomasville, Georgia; Union, New Jersey.
[2]Evoqua Water Technologies’ anaerobic wastewater treatment systems produce approximately 540,000 m3 per day of biogas at installations around the world.  This is utilized to produce an estimated 
2,000,000 kWh of heat and 170,000 kWh of electricity every day. This estimate is based on average home electricity usage provided by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
OVERVIEW

08

HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR PROGRESS
IN SUSTAINABILITY

DOUBLED 
OUR IMPACT

BOARD 
DIVERSITY

We nearly doubled our charitable 
donations to non-profits working 
in education, science, social or 
humanitarian efforts from FY18.

In February 2020, our Board elected 
Lisa Glatch, an executive with 
extensive experience in energy, 
chemicals and infrastructure, 
as our Board’s newest member. 
Evoqua continues to focus on board 
diversity. Learn more about the 
diversity of our board on page 50.

SUCCESSFULLY 
PREVENTING 
CORRUPTION 

Our Anti-Corruption Policy is 
highly rated by ESG investor 
rating agencies such as MSCI, 
Sustainalytics and ISS.

OVERVIEW

09

CREATING VALUE 
FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS

FY2019 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW

7.8% GROWTH

2019

$1,444.4

2018

$1,339.5

2017

$1,247.4

s
n
o

i
l
l
i

m
n

i

s
r
a

l
l

o
D

E
U
N
E
V
E
R

D
E
T
S
U
J
D
A

A
D
T
I
B
E

8.3% GROWTH

2019

2018

$235.0

$216.9

s
n
o

i
l
l
i

m
n

i

s
r
a

l
l

o
D

2017

$207.7

REVENUE 
BY SEGMENT

REVENUE 
BY TYPE

63%

37%

59%

41%

Applied Product Technologies 

Integrated Solutions and Services

Products

Services

INVESTING IN INNOVATION 

In FY19, we acquired ATG-UV Technology 
Limited, a leading manufacturer of ultraviolet 
(UV) light disinfection systems used in a wide 
range of municipal, aquatics and industrial 
applications. Since 2016 we have acquired 
four UV and ozone technologies companies to 
expand our reach into chemical-free disinfection.

OVERVIEW

10

 
 
 
 
 
THE CHALLENGES 
OF WATER

Water scarcity, emerging contaminants in water and climate change are 
growing concerns around the world. In combination with urbanization 
and population growth, our available water resources are under stress. 

We can all have a meaningful part in helping to build a more sustainable 
water future for all.  Evoqua is committed to ensuring safe, clean and 
reliable water quality and quantity. Since the role water plays in our 
daily lives can often go unnoticed, we work to increase awareness 
of the issues facing our water systems and infrastructure by actively 
participating in programs such as Imagine a Day Without Water, Value 
of Water Campaign, and World Water Day

OVERVIEW

11

EVOQUA  
RECOGNIZES 
THAT WATER IS 
A FUNDAMENTAL 
HUMAN RIGHT 
Evoqua supports Water-4-Nations, whose 
mission is to bring clean and safe drinking water 
to communities in Haiti. 

ADD IMAGE

EVOQUA WORKS 
WITH NUMEROUS 
LOCAL AND GLOBAL 
ASSOCIATIONS TO 
PARTICIPATE IN BROAD 
DISCUSSIONS ON 
WATER ISSUES AND 
SOLUTIONS 

OUR ORGANIZATIONAL 
PARTNERS 

MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS

» American Water Works Association

»

British Water Membership

» Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management /

Water UK

» National Rural Water Association

» U.S. Water Alliance

» Water & Wastewater Equipment Manufacturers Association

» Water Environment Federation

» WaterReuse Association

OVERVIEW

14

MATERIALITY AND 
OUR APPROACH 

To chart a path to become more sustainable, we completed 
our first materiality assessment in the summer of 2019. This 
assessment focused on understanding the key aspects of 
sustainability that are important to our stakeholders. We 
interviewed and surveyed over 500 stakeholders from seven 
internal and/or external stakeholder groups.

The findings led us to two frames of reference for thinking 
about sustainability at Evoqua:

1. Our Handprint: enabling our customers to become more
sustainable through our solutions and service offering

2. Our Footprint: Evoqua’s responsibility to become more
sustainable in our internal operations

As an outcome of our materiality assessment, we 
developed a Sustainability Steering Committee overseen 
by our CEO and other members of our Executive 
Leadership Team to focus on five areas: social factors, 
corporate governance, internal environmental footprint, 
corporate social responsibility and innovation. The 
following table explains our goals that came from the 
materiality process.

Our current goals are broad and look at sustainability 
holistically. In FY20 and FY21 we plan to create more 
concise corporate-level goals matched by localized 
action at our numerous sites and business segments. 

OVERVIEW

15

GOALS FROM OUR 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 

GOAL 

WORK GROUP ACTIONS

Help our customers improve their sustainability 
performance for water, energy and waste

Explore product innovation by forming a 
innovation working group to increase the 
sustainability of our products

Lessen the environmental impact of our internal 
operations

Focus on our internal environmental 
footprint by forming a focused working 
group to track our impact

Help our employees, partners and communities 
thrive

Enhance our social sustainability with our 
employees, suppliers and our communities 
within a social factors working group

Ensure we have the best-in-class business ethics 
and governance practices

Continue to build on our good business 
ethics and corporate governance

Improve the communities in which we work

Enhance our external outreach for 
corporate social responsibility through an 
external outreach work group

OVERVIEW

16

ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP

WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS
MEET THEIR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 

As a trusted advisor to our customers, we are 
dedicated to bringing awareness to sustainability 
issues they face. We serve the needs associated 
with water quality and quantity in applications such 
as emerging contaminant removal, wastewater 
treatment and water reuse. Our solutions and 
services enable customers to reduce the strain on 
freshwater resources.

We are dedicated to helping our customers meet 
their sustainability goals. While SDG 6 is where 
our largest impact lies, we also help our customers 
meet other SDGs, including SDG 3, 7, 9, 12 and 13.  

We help our customers achieve their sustainability goals and are 
well positioned to so in the future as the world moves towards 
a circular and sustainable economy. Our offerings are aligned 
with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
allowing us to help our customers create a more sustainable 
future. 

ENERGY  
Our anaerobic digestion technology produces 
enough energy to meet the electricity needs 
of the equivalent of 5,000 American homes 
per day.[1]

SMART WATER 
Our Water One® platform provides 
customers with reliable water quality 
and quantity when they need it through a 
digitally- enabled, proactive service model.

[1] Evoqua Water Technologies’ anaerobic wastewater treatment systems produce approximately 540,000 m3 per day of biogas at installations around the world.  This is utilized to produce an estimated 
2,000,000 kWh of heat and 170,000 kWh of electricity every day. This estimate is based on average home electricity usage provided by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

18

WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS
MEET THEIR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 

HEALTH AND WELLNESS 
Disinfection and sanitization are critical to hospitals, 
laboratories and food processing operations. Evoqua’s 
advanced services and technologies, offer reliable 
solutions worldwide.

CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
Water reuse and recycling technologies, such as UV 
disinfection systems, help to provide a safe alternative 
water supply and reduce strain on fresh water resources.

CLIMATE CHANGE  
Evoqua has one of the largest fleets of temporary and 
rapid response mobile units in North America, ready to 
provide clean water when and where it is needed most. 

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

19

DELIVERING SOLUTIONS TO THE 
WORLD’S MOST PRESSING ISSUES 

PFOA and PFOS removal in 
Kennebunkport

Rapid response mobile solution for 
Apache Junction

Municipal wastewater reused for 
industrial plant to reduce local 
water stress

SOLUTION 
Granular Activated Carbon (GAC) lead-lag 
system using enhanced coconut-based carbon

RESULTS 
The installed system removes PFAS to non-
detect levels and delivers up to 160% longer 
bed life compared to the coal-based alternative 
(bituminous GAC) resulting in up to 40% lower 
life cycle costs.

SOLUTION 
Mobile clarification and horizontal filtration 
technologies

SOLUTION 
Enhanced ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis system 
with continuous online monitoring  

RESULTS 
Apache Junction was on a quickly approaching 
deadline of being able to provide potable water for 
the city's 19,000 residents.

Evoqua was able to meet the 2-week delivery and 
start-up time to fulfill capacity requirements, quality 
specifications and meet the needs of the residents.

RESULTS 
The municipal wastewater was able to be used 
within the plant even with variable feedwater 
quality. This aided in reducing local water stress.

OUR ROLE 
« Provide healthy and safe drinking water 

OUR ROLE 
« Mitigate the effects of extreme weather 

« Solve for emerging contaminants 

with rapid response units

>> Click here to read full case study

>> Click here to read full case study

OUR ROLE 
« Products and services for water reuse 

« Services that prolong product life 

« Products for efficient nutrient capture 

>> Click here to read full case study

 
DELIVERING SOLUTIONS TO THE 
WORLD’S MOST PRESSING ISSUES 

ThaiBev replaced over 80% of 
heating needs with green energy 
captured on site

St. Luke's Hospital receives 
dependable water with proactive 
Water One® service 

Recovery of potable water from 
a PFOA contaminated well in 
Stratmoor Hills

SOLUTION 
Provided full-scale ADI anaerobic digestion systems 
to treat molasses stillage at five different ThaiBev 
locations in Thailand 

SOLUTION 
Water One service combines remote monitoring 
and fast, local service to ensure reliable and 
consistent water quality

SOLUTION 
Ion selective IX resin helped Stratmoor Hills Water 
District solve an urgent PFC contamination problem 
and meet its customers’ drinking water needs 

RESULTS 
The primary purpose was to generate biogas as 
a means of reducing fossil fuel energy costs. The 
anaerobic digestion systems replaced over 80% of 
the energy needed for heating.  

RESULTS 
The continuous digital monitoring mitigates risk, 
automates tank exchanges and minimizes system 
downtime. 

RESULTS 
Stratmoor Hills Water District was able to remove 
contaminants to nearly non-existent levels and 
distribute safe water to municipal customers.

OUR ROLE 
« Products that reduce energy usage 

« Products that capture biogas

OUR ROLE 
« Integrated system for water, energy, product and 

OUR ROLE 
« Provide safe and healthy drinking water 

service efficiency

« Solve for emerging contaminants 

>> Click here to read full case study

>> Click here to read full case study

>> Click here to read full case study

 
 
SUSTAINABILITY IS 
A COLLABORATIVE EFFORT 

INDUSTRY
Aquatics and Pools

LOCATION
Atlanta, Georgia, USA

TECHNOLOGY
Sand Filter

Evoqua named Georgia Aquarium the recipient of the Evoqua Water Sustainability Award for 2019. 
The award recognizes excellence in water stewardship, including companies using new or existing 
technologies in innovative, sustainable ways and companies that have made significant strides in 
water efficiency.

For the second year, Evoqua employees nominated companies from among its 38,000-customer base 
for their sustainability efforts to treat, re-use, and conserve water. Other companies shortlisted for the 
award included Johnson & Johnson and Phillips66.

RESULT 
Saving nearly $1.5M by reusing more 
than 99% of 10M gallons

CASE STUDY:  
GEORGIA AQUARIUM

CLIENT

Preserving water—the world’s most valuable 
resource—is at the heart of everything 
we do at Evoqua. Each year, we’re excited 
to honor an organization that prizes 
sustainability as much as we do. Georgia 
Aquarium’s extraordinary LSS processes 
have made it a water savings hero, and 
we’re proud to be part of its efforts to enrich 
life through smart water use.

RON KEATING | EVOQUA CEO 

Georgia Aquarium, the largest aquarium in the Western Hemisphere, has been committed to work on 
behalf of all marine life through education, preservation, exceptional animal care and research across 
the globe since its opening in 2005. Located in Atlanta, Georgia, the Aquarium’s mission is to be an 
entertaining, educational and scientific institution featuring exhibits and programs of the highest 
standards. To achieve that, Georgia Aquarium needed a reliable, effective water treatment system—and 
turned to Evoqua’s Neptune-Benson solutions to provide it.

In 2005, Evoqua’s Neptune-Benson® provided over 150 fiberglass high-rate sand filters to process the 
facility’s then-8 million gallons of fresh and marine water. This water is home to more than 100,000 
animals, representing 500 species from around the world. When the Aquarium opened its second 
phase of habitats in 2010, Neptune-Benson supplied four high-rate sand filters for the penguin and sea 
otter exhibits. In 2011, 22 fiberglass high-rate sand filters were added for the new dolphin expansion. 
With each exhibit, Evoqua’s Neptune-Benson steel and fiberglass filters were custom engineered and 
fabricated to suit the unique needs of Georgia Aquarium.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

22

SUSTAINABILITY IS 
A COLLABORATIVE EFFORT 

CASE STUDY:  
GEORGIA AQUARIUM

CHALLENGE

RESULTS

Georgia Aquarium needed a supplier for its life support 
systems (LSS) processes – which involve the upkeep 
of water and associated filtration systems to ensure 
water is both clean and healthy. LSS systems consist of a 
combination of sand filtration, protein skimming and ozone 
disinfection. The Aquarium sought a water filtration system 
that would boost its ability to treat and reuse water within 
exhibits. Saving water was key for Georgia Aquarium, 
since producing artificial seawater is expensive at 14 cents 
a gallon. Additionally, Georgia Aquarium’s commitment 
to sustainability required a solution that would allow for 
more water reuse to meet their sustainability goal. To help 
fulfill its LSS needs, Georgia Aquarium turned to Evoqua’s 
Neptune-Benson as a trusted partner.

SOLUTION

The LSS team at Georgia Aquarium developed a process of 
denitrification using fiberglass-reinforced plastic vessels, 
custom-built by Evoqua’s Neptune-Benson, that house 
beneficial bacteria. This process reduces nitrates that 
form in the Aquarium’s 6.3-million-gallon Ocean Voyager 
exhibit, and one of the largest indoor aquatic habitats in the 
world. Evoqua’s Neptune-Benson supplied almost 100 sand 
filter vessels and 10 million gallons of artificial seawater to 
support the Aquarium’s LSS processes.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

Georgia Aquarium’s water filtration system  
supplied by Evoqua’s Neptune-Benson has 
successfully created a healthy balance of bacteria 
for its water habitats and allowed the Aquarium to 
save millions of dollars, and water consumption, 
through efficient water reuse. A recent study 
conducted by the Georgia Institute of Technology 
discovered that the types of bacteria found 
in Georgia Aquarium patented denitrification 
process, using custom Neptune-Benson fiberglass 
vessels, are nearly identical to those found in 
applicable natural marine settings. This means 
that the bacteria can naturally remove nitrates 
from the Aquarium’s water, which leads to a 
significant reduction in wastewater and make-
up water, contributing to Georgia Aquarium’s 
sustainability goals. By reducing wastewater and 
make-up water, Georgia Aquarium avoids needing 
to replace vast quantities of water. Due to the cost 
of producing artificial seawater and the amount 
of water used within these exhibits, the filtration 
systems have the potential to save Georgia 
Aquarium nearly $1.5 million annually by reusing 
more than 99% of the 10 million gallons of water 
in all its exhibits across seven major galleries. 

23

WE WORK 
RESPONSIBLY 
TO ENSURE OUR 
OPERATIONS 
LESSEN OUR 
IMPACT ON THE 
ENVIRONMENT

OUR ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT FROM OPERATIONS

Every day we help our customers lessen their environmental 
impact with our products and services. We also work  
internally to ensure we are operating responsibly in a way 
that lessens our impact on the environment. Our CEO-
endorsed Environment Health and Safety and Sustainability 
Policy (EHS&S), highlights our corporate commitment to 
sustainability. Our company-wide Environmental Management 
System helps to ensures we protect the environment in our 
operations. We are committed to monitoring and reporting 
our performance and performing better tomorrow than 
today by continuing to baseline our metrics and set new 
KPIs and targets over FY20. We will continue to report our 
environmental performance in our Sustainability Reports and 
consult with our stakeholders.

All our locations are governed by an environmental system 
(EMS) and our larger eight sites maintain their ISO 14001 

certifications. Our EMS has internal objectives, targets and 
deadlines with assigned roles to various employees and a 
monitoring program in place. We track our EMS performance 
records internally, conduct internal audits regularly and 
external audits periodically to ensure performance of our 
EMS. At the corporate level, we have trainings for employees 
in our EMS which is more robust at sites with certification. 
We have an awareness program at sites for visitors that 
is communicated to contractors and visitors through site 
brochures. As outlined in our company EHS&S Policy, we aim 
for 100% compliance with all environmental regulations and 
permits. When environmental concerns from our operations 
do arise, we take immediate corrective action to work with 
our stakeholders to resolve them. We have an internal and 
external communications process in place for environmental 
management issues.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

25

OUR CARBON 
REACTIVATION 
FACILITIES PREVENTED 
14,250 TONS OF 
CARBON FROM 
BEING LANDFILLED; 
APPROXIMATELY THE 
EQUIVALENT WEIGHT 
OF THE LEANING 
TOWER OF PISA

According to Primaziale Pisana, the Leaning Tower of Pisa weighs approximately 14,453 tonnes. 

SUSTAINABILITY IN 
OUR OPERATIONS 

Commercial LED Lighting is 
on the list of the top actions 
we can take to reduce 
climate change according to 
Project Drawdown.

Five of our larger manufacturing facilities have made a dedicated effort to be more sustainable 
in their operations. Pages 27 - 29 contain highlights from these five sites; Colorado Springs, 
Colorado; Holland, Michigan; Tewksbury, Massachusetts; Thomasville, Georgia. 

COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA 

LED lighting was installed in 75% of the building and 100% of parking lot.

Colorado Springs utilized the permaculture technique of xeriscaping to repurpose all ballast rock 
from their roof renovation. Thirty percent of the existing lawn is now xeriscaped which produced 
a 15% water savings.

TEWKSBURY, MA, USA

In addition to upgrading to LED lighting in FY18, the Tewksbury location installed occupancy 
sensors in the warehouse and manufacturing areas in FY19 which have reduced the use of LED 
high bay lighting by 30%. With the installation of the high-bay sensors and elimination of some 
3-phase power supplies, Tewksbury reduced their electricity usage from the previous year by 
10-14%. See lighting comparison image on the next page.

THOMASVILLE, GA, USA

Our Thomasville location replaced 200 wood pallets with plastic pallets, which last four times 
longer. 

This location also converted 50 shop lights to LEDs, which led to a total cost savings of $18,000 
and a reduction of approximately 180,000 kwh.

Project Drawdown® is a nonprofit organization that seeks to help the world 
reach “Drawdown”— the future point in time when levels of greenhouse gases in the 
atmosphere stop climbing and start to steadily decline.

27

 
SUSTAINABILITY IN 
OUR OPERATIONS 

LITTLE CHANGES CAN 
MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE. 
These photos highlight the 
difference occupancy sensors can 
make which led to a big energy 
savings in Tewksbury, MA  

WATER USAGE  
(gallons per employee)

FY17-FY19  

26% 

reduction

ELECTRICITY USAGE 
(Kwh per employee)

FY17-FY19

6% 

reduction

This covers our facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Holland, 
Michigan; Tewksbury, Massachusetts; Thomasville, Georgia; Union, 
New Jersey.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

28

 
SUSTAINABILITY IN 
OUR OPERATIONS 

On average, 
for every 1 ton 

             we sent to 
a landfill, 
we sent 2.2 tons 

to a recycling 
facility 
to be made into something new.* 

*This data is from five of our larger manufacturing facilities located in Colorado Springs, Colorado; 
Holland, Michigan; Tewksbury, Massachusetts; Thomasville, Georgia; Union, New Jersey.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

Evoqua continues to expand the development, monitoring, 
and reduction strategy of our overall environmental foot-
print. In FY20 we are seeking opportunities to reduce the 
idling rate of our roughly 1,200 vehicle fleet.

We have a role to play in the circular economy. Our carbon 
and resin reactivation services allow our customers to reduce 
waste and carbon footprint by regenerating spent resin and 
reactivating spent carbon so that they can have a new life 
and purpose that doesn’t include a landfill. Activated carbon 
is used to remove taste, odor and organics from municipal 
drinking water and removes chlorine for industrial processes. 
Our carbon reactivation facilities in FY19 alone, prevented 
our customers from landfilling 14,250 tons of spent carbon. 

29

OUR  
PEOPLE

HEALTH AND
SAFETY  

Our corporate EHS team closely monitors our program through monthly 
performance reviews at the executive level; our CEO and other leadership 
review every recordable accident; quarterly Operations Review meetings and 
Board of Director reports; daily interactions with operations' leaders; routine 
reviews of key performance indicators; and regular facility audits to verify 
compliance.  

The majority of our physically active employees work in manufacturing sites 
or on customer sites, primarily handling products and materials. The primary 
safety risks identified through analysis of historical safety data and our 
internal risk assessments are: slips, trips and falls; strains and sprains; and 
body parts in the line of fire. 

We have implemented targeted programs to ensure employees receive initial 
training, followed by refresher training regularly. We also cover and reinforce 
hazard awareness for slips, trips and falls; strains and sprains; and body parts 
in the line of fire in our employee safety orientation, routine in-person and 
online safety training, safety alerts and messages, monthly safety calls, and 
our corporate-wide newsletters. 

In addition, the majority of our sites have EHS committees that are responsible 
for investigating and reviewing accidents and communicating safety issues. 
All of our divisions hold monthly calls to review safety issues.   Our operating 
guidelines and procedures are relevant for our industry.

OUR PEOPLE

31

HEALTH AND
SAFETY  

Our prevention activities 
enabled us to 

reduce our total 
accidents by

14%

from FY18 to FY19, 
surpassing our target by 
10%

Safety is embedded in Evoqua’s core values. Evoqua considers EHS to be 
an organizational responsibility that is integral to our success. The safety of 
our employees, and anyone who visits our locations, is our top priority. 

Each year, Evoqua renews our commitment to safety with our EHS and 
Sustainability Policy, which is signed by our CEO. It states we “will provide 
our solutions, products and services in a safe, environmentally sound and 
socially responsible manner.” 

We maintain an EHS program focused on work environments where each 
employee is enabled, empowered and embraces personal accountability for 
protecting their health and safety, as well as that of their co-workers. Every 
employee is empowered to:

 »

 »

 »

Perform a Safe Performance Self-Assessment when they begin 
work.

Follow Standard Work Instructions for the job they are performing. 

STOP WORK when they have a concern or see the potential for 
injury.

OUR PEOPLE

32

HEALTH AND
SAFETY  

To maintain employee safety and to 
reduce our vehicle incident rates, 

1,200 employees who 

drive and/or fuel Evoqua vehicles 

participated in driver 
safety training in FY19. 

Our driver safety program has  
become standard for our internal 
fleet as a part of Learning and 
Development.

Through our Incident Report & Investigation program, which 
includes executive oversight, we have established reporting 
procedures for work-related injuries and significant non-injury 
losses that are focused on: 

 »

 »

 »

Ensuring prompt medical care for injured employees. 

Providing for accurate and timely reporting of incidents 
within the organization and to governmental agencies 
(as required). 

Providing management with the tools to determine 
the root causes of incidents, implement corrective and 
preventive actions to prevent their recurrence, and share 
this knowledge throughout Evoqua.

Evoqua manages an EHS management system that aligns 
with the basic elements of the ISO 14001:2015, and OHSAS 
18001:2007. 

OUR PEOPLE

33

EHS INDUSTRY
COMPARISON 

COMPARISON OF EVOQUA INCIDENT RATES WITH 
INDUSTRY AVERAGES

4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0

TRIR

DART

LTIR

Evoqua

Service Providing

NAICS 33339

Manufacturing

While our safety metrics are below the industry averages, we hold ourselves to higher standards and remain vigilant in lowering these rates.

Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), Days Away from Work, Days of Restricted Work Activity, Days of Job 
Transfer (DART), Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)

OUR PEOPLE

34

DIVERSITY 
AND INCLUSION 

To attract diverse talent, we 
use targeted recruitment 
methods that are aimed to 
bring in talent from across 
industries, background and 
lived experiences.  

WE EMBRACE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

We aim to empower all employees to succeed. Our Code of Ethics 
and Business Conduct outlines that we do not tolerate discrimination 
in our hiring or promotional practices based on race, color, creed, 
religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, age, physical or mental disability, 
marital status, pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, veteran, marital or military status or any other 
category protected under federal, state, local or applicable national and 
international law. This applies to employment, supplier and external 
partner decisions. 

In FY19 we conducted a Global Leadership Gender and Pay Analysis. The 
results were reviewed with our senior leadership. This analysis included 
a review by function and level, as well as STEM education levels, to 
correlate fair share diversity. While the analysis provides a macro view 
of pay equity, it does not account for individual circumstances, such as 
job titles, education and experience. From the analysis, we found that 
at a macro scale, we have relative pay equity across the genders of the 
groups surveyed. We have a global family architecture in place for all 
employment positions, and we conduct frequent checks to ensure we 
are reaffirming our long-term commitment to fairly compensating all our 
employees. 

OUR PEOPLE

35

ENABLING EMPLOYEES
FOR SUCCESS

Our success depends on our ability to attract, engage and retain 
a diverse group of employees. Our research shows that many 
of our employees chose Evoqua because we have a rich 100-
year history of solving the world’s most pressing water issues 
through our mission: Transforming Water. Enriching Life. 

In line with our culture, we work to enable employees to grow 
from within and develop their own interests in line with their 
career paths. Our Leading at Evoqua and Employee Learning 
programs provide support that can help them achieve their 
goals.

Leading at Evoqua is a customized six-month development 
program for managers. As part of a cohort managers build 
leadership capabilities that help them maximize employee and 
team success to drive bottom-line performance. Members 
of our Executive Leadership Team actively engage with 
participants during the learning experience, providing valuable 
insights on our strategy and leadership best practices that 
embody our High Performance Culture. We have developed a 
culture that is highly enabled to deliver, empowered to succeed 
and accountable to lead.

A total of 98 managers have 
completed our Leading at Evoqua 
training through December 2019

OUR PEOPLE

36

ENABLING EMPLOYEES
FOR SUCCESS

EMPLOYEE LEARNING

At Evoqua, we believe there is no one-size fits all approach 
to learning, and that most learning happens in the workplace 
through special projects, rotational programs, problem-solving 
opportunities, and job shadowing. These opportunities allow 
employees to learn new skills and gain experiences they can 
leverage throughout their careers. We follow a 70-20-10 model 
where 70% of employee learning is on the job, 20% through 
social learning and 10% through structured learning.

FLEXIBLE SELF-MANAGED TIME OFF

We are always looking for opportunities to differentiate the 
programs and benefits that we offer to our employees. As an 
added benefit to our full-time exempt employees, we offer 
flexible self-managed time off. This enables our employees to 
take the time they need when they need it.

WHAT IT MEANS TO WORK HERE

OUR MINDSET  
We know we succeed only when our customers succeed. To that 
end, we make decisions at lowest possible levels, at fastest possible 
speeds - freeing employees to respond to customers quickly and 
effectively without sacrificing safety or quality. 

OUR ORGANIZATION: WE WORK AS “ONE 
EVOQUA” 
We collaborate across our global enterprise in an increasingly 
competitive marketplace, no single product, group or unit succeeds 
on their own, no matter how remarkable they are. We are one team. 

OUR PEOPLE: WE HIRE FOR BRAINS AND HEART 
We are industry experts who foster great relationships with 
colleagues and customers. We value technical knowledge and 
experience, alongside business insight and people smarts. We 
nurture both the hard and soft skills of our talent. 

OUR LEADERSHIP: WE LEAD FROM WHERE WE 
ARE 
We take ownership. We lead from all levels. We value the 
opportunity to grow, as a business and as people. We hold each 
other accountable to make the right things happen for maximum 
performance. 

OUR PROMISE: GROW WITH THE BEST  
We are on the move. As the world’s first choice for water solutions, 
our workplace will continue to evolve and expand, and so will the 
opportunities. This is a workplace that nourishes talented people. 
Immerse yourself ... in Evoqua

OUR PEOPLE

37

INTERNSHIP
OPPORTUNITIES

LEADERSHIP
DEVELOPMENT

Evoqua is committed to providing internship opportunities 
that can help to develop the future workforce and build 
a pipeline of talent in our company. At our Pittsburgh 
Headquarters, we partnered with the Allegheny Conference 
on Community Development to host interns from across 
Western Pennsylvania as part of the Passport Program. 
Interns in the program who are not from the area have an 
opportunity to learn more about the many companies – 
like Evoqua – that are headquartered in Pittsburgh. Across 
numerous Evoqua locations, we hosted 28 Interns in 
FY19. Beyond internships, our Germany and UK locations 
host apprentice programs for students to receive hands-
on training while still in school. Our work with emerging 
talent allows us to develop future employees, foster a work 
ready workforce, and give valuable skills to the interns and 
apprentices involved.

OUR PEOPLE

Evoqua’s Leadership Development Program (LDP) was 
established to attract emerging talent to Evoqua and train 
them in a cross-functional development rotation within our 
organization. This approach allows the LDP participants to build 
the technical skills, business acumen and leadership aptitude 
that can help them land a full-time position with Evoqua. 
Currently, the LDP is focused on Sales, Operations, Information 
Technology, and Marketing & Product Management.  Evoqua 
hosted 13 participants in the LDP program in FY19.

Evoqua partnered with Thomasville-
Thomas County Chamber of Commerce 
and Thomas County Schools for Project 
Purpose.  The goal of Project Purpose is 
to connect Thomas County high school 
students to meaningful careers through 
work-based learning with companies 
in the County. Through the part-time 
apprentice program, Isaac King became 
the first Project Purpose participant to 
become a full-time Evoqua employee.   

EMPLOYEE HEALTH
AND WELLNESS

The wellness of our employees is extremely important at Evoqua. We 
recognize that our employee’s good health and well-being not only 
allows them to out-perform in the workplace, but also to live a happy 
and rewarding life. We offer full health benefits, matching 401K, and 
an employee assistance program. Beyond the traditional benefits, we 
think holistically about wellness. 

The mission of our LIVE WELL program is to create a work 
environment where employees have the tools, resources, and 
support system that will motivate and empower individuals to take 
responsibility for their health and live a healthier lifestyle. The LIVE 
WELL program consists of 40+ employee Wellness Champions at 
25+ locations that work to implement wholistic wellness activities at 
their sites. LIVE WELL’s pillars include:

» Move More: Making activity an active part of the day

» Eat Better: Enabling better food choices

» Be Safer: Engaging in preventative care and accessing the right

care as needed

» Be Mindful: Prioritizing career, social, community, and financial

well-being

The LIVE WELL Program hosted 
50+ events with 800+ employee 
participants

OUR PEOPLE

39

EMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT

We care for the employees in our Evoqua Family which we 
call "One Evoqua". We strive to build a work environment 
where employees are enabled to grow and develop 
the skills needed to not only succeed in their jobs, but 
to gain experiences. We work to provide employees 
engagement opportunities where they can spend quality 
time together to get to know each other and to build our 
workplace culture. While each site hosts its own employee 
engagement activities, some go above and beyond to 
create quality events, like our Colorado Springs location.

To inform our actions in 2019, we conducted a global 
employee survey the year before to gain a better 
understanding of employee engagement and satisfaction. 
Using the information gathered from the survey, we 
implemented a range of programs and took additional 
actions aimed at improving our employees’ experience.  
We complete our employee engagement survey 
approximately every two years.

Employees in 
Colorado Springs 
organized a team 
camping trip in 
July, 2019 

OUR PEOPLE

40

CHARITABLE 
GIVING

We direct our corporate giving towards: education, science, 
social and humanitarian efforts. Particularly those that 
satisfy our corporate objective to meet the needs for safe 
and clean water and sanitation. Our community relations 
and engagement sits with our VP of Brand and Strategy.  We 
do not make political contributions. To further our mission 
to transform water, we have been involved in lobbying 
efforts that further that goal. This information is publicly 
available online. 

OUR PEOPLE

41

IN FY19 WE 
DOUBLED OUR 
CORPORATE 
GIVING DOLLARS 
FROM THE 
PREVIOUS YEAR
One of the non-profits that we gave to was 
charity: water, whose mission is to bring 
clean and safe drinking water to people in 
developing countries.

SUSTAINABILITY IS 
A COLLABORATIVE EFFORT 

In FY19 we partnered with 
an employee-founded 
non-profit called Water-4-
Nations to bring drinking 
water disinfection systems 
to villages in northern Haiti.

Johnny Robinson, a sales manager with Evoqua Water Technologies, 
and his wife Sha live Evoqua’s mission statement: Transforming 
Water. Enriching Lives. Since 2011, they have been on a mission to 
improve the water quality in Haiti for those who do not have access 
to safe drinking water. While they can’t fix all water issues, they have 
found solutions to help three villages in Northern Haiti: Rochefort, 
Creve, and Trandemese.

Through Water-4-Nations, a nonprofit organization that Johnny 
and Sha created, they are building a water distribution system that 
supplies clean, potable water to the villages.

Less than half of people who live in the rural areas of Haiti have 
access to water. Only one-fourth have access to a toilet. Waterborne 
illnesses, like typhoid, cholera, and chronic diarrhea, are the cause of 
more than half of the deaths in the country every year.

“Providing safe and sustainable water in Haiti is complicated 
because it lacks the infrastructure to set up a sophisticated and 
efficient water cleaning system,” Robinson said, adding that “Haiti 
is approximately 200 years behind the U.S. in water treatment 
technology.”

OUR PEOPLE

43

SUSTAINABILITY IS 
A COLLABORATIVE EFFORT 

WATER-4-NATIONS STORY CONTINUES 

These stats don't sit well with Johnny, so he dedicates the majority 
of his personal time to supporting and raising funds for Water-4-
Nations. Johnny and Sha enlisted friends who are engineers and 
experts in the drinking water field and leveraged the contacts they 
have in various developing countries. Water-4-Nations also works 
with local Haitian organizations, including missionaries, churches, 
and community leaders, all of whom want to help provide safe water 
to their people. In 2019, Evoqua stepped in as a corporate sponsor.

Robinson designed an easy-to-operate batch chlorine disinfection 
water system, which filters and disinfects the water to make it 
potable. Batch sizes vary from 65 to 600 gallons and can be filtered 
approximately every hour depending on the raw water supply 
(captured rainwater or spring water). Water is pumped into a large 
tank, and the water flows by gravity through an overflow chlorinator 
where it picks up enough residual chlorine to clean it.

"Our technology is sustainable, easy to transfer and can be used 
in more parts of the world," said Robinson. Water-4-Nations is 
currently evaluating where to go next.

Having Evoqua’s support speaks to our corporate mission 
statement. Transforming Water. Enriching Life. With 
Water-4-Nations, we really are. 

JOHNNY ROBINSON   
EMPLOYEE & WATER-4-NATIONS FOUNDER

OUR PEOPLE

44

OUR EMPLOYEES SERVE
OUR COMMUNITIES

Pittsburgh cleanup 
with Allegheny 
Cleanways

16 Evoquians by boat 
and land removed 9 tires 
and 850 lbs of trash from 
Pittsburgh’s waterways.

OUR PEOPLE

45

OUR EMPLOYEES SERVE
OUR COMMUNITIES

For the past ten years, 
employees from our 
Lowell and Tewksbury 
locations volunteer 
monthly to prepare and 
serve dinner at a local 
soup kitchen.

OUR PEOPLE

46

OUR EMPLOYEES SERVE
OUR COMMUNITIES

COMMUNITY CLEAN UP IN THOMAS COUNTY, 
GEORGIA

On March 23, 2019 employees from Evoqua’s Thomasville office and 
their families took part in the local Keep Thomas County Beautiful Great 
American Cleanup Event. Keep Thomas County Beautiful is an affiliate of 
Keep America Beautiful.

The Great American Cleanup (GAC), which marked its 21st year in 2019, 
engages an average of more than 3 million volunteers and participants 
every year to create a positive and lasting impact. The initiative prompts 
individuals to take greater responsibility for their local environment 
by conducting grassroots community service projects that engage 
volunteers, local businesses and civic leaders.

The Thomasville GAC attracted more than 100 volunteers and collected 
a total of 564 lbs. of litter from the roadways in and around Thomasville 
within a three-hour time frame. 

This is the second year in a row that Evoqua employees have helped 
beautify their community through volunteering with Keep Thomas 
County Beautiful. Evoqua employee Richard Barnes serves on the 
organization’s Board of Directors.

Pictured (left to right): Evoqua employees Richard Barnes (Project 
Administrator); his wife, Libbi; Jeremy Glennon (Materials Support); his 
two sons, Alden (10) and Zan (7); and Shiloh Barnes (Painter).

OUR PEOPLE

47

OUR EMPLOYEES SERVE
OUR COMMUNITIES

SERVING THE COMMUNITY OF CAIRO, GEORGIA

Hurricane Michael brought devastation to the Florida coast, along with a lot of damage 
and destruction to the small town of Cairo, Georgia. Many Evoqua employees at the 
Thomasville, Georgia, facility live in and around Cairo. After the hurricane, Cairo worked 
together to regain some semblance of who they were before. 

Unfortunately, these efforts were short-lived. On Sunday, March 3, 2019 Cairo was hit by 
an F3 tornado that cut a path through the entire town. Many homes and businesses were 
destroyed. 

The residents of Cairo were once again banding together and reaching out to neighbors. 
One of those residents is Evoqua’s own Fergus Robinson, who works in Aftermarket Sales 
in Thomasville, and whose hometown is Cairo. 

Fergus decided to arrange lunch for the community on Saturday, March 9, 2019. He 
reached out to his many friends, family and Evoqua for donations and contributions. 
Fergus teamed up with another Evoqua employee, Andrew Cooper. They loaded Andrew’s 
truck with freshly prepared meals and distributed them throughout the neighborhoods. 

Georgia Congressman Sanford Bishop, Emergency Management Director Richard Phillips, 
and a few City Councilmen stopped by to share their appreciation with the team. 

“It’s just the right thing to do,” Fergus said. 

OUR PEOPLE

48

CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE

OUR BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS

We have a ten-member Board of Directors, at least a 
majority of which are independent. Our Board of Directors 
is led by an independent Chair. Under our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, the non-management members of 
our Board will appoint a Lead Independent Director if, in the 
future, the same person holds the Chair and CEO positions. 
Our Board of Directors has the following standing 
committees: Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, 
and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 
Our directors are engaged and have attended nearly 
100% of the meetings of the Board and the Committees of 
which they are a member. Additionally, non-management 
directors hold executive sessions without any members 
of management present following most Board meetings. 
To continually improve performance, our Board and each 
standing committee conducts an annual self-evaluation.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines are posted on our 
website. For specific information on our Board of Directors, 
please see our Proxy Statement. 

Our Board membership reflects diverse personal 
backgrounds and experience: 1 African American; two 
Asian Americans; one UK national; five with global 
business experience. Our Board also has been recognized 
by the Pittsburgh Business Times, among boards of other 
regional companies, for its racial diversity.[1] Our Board 
has adopted the Rooney Rule, which means the Board is 
committed to include women and persons of color in each 
pool of candidates from which we select new director 
nominees. In February 2020, our Board elected Lisa Glatch, 
a woman with extensive experience in energy, chemicals 
and infrastructure, as our Board’s newest member. 

[1] from April 5-11th, 2019 edition, pg. 15

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

50

PAY FOR 
PERFORMANCE  

Our Compensation Committee is advised by an 
independent compensation consultant. We hold an 
advisory “say-on-pay” vote at each Annual Meeting of 
Stockholders to provide our stockholders the opportunity 
to inform us of their view on our executive compensation 
program.

The FY19 compensation program for our principal executive 
officer, principal financial officer and our three other most 
highly compensated executive officers (named executive 
officers or NEOs) has a reasonable, straightforward 
structure and encourages long-term outlook: 44 – 58% 
of compensation is in the form of long-term incentives to 
provide strong alignment between NEOs’ and stockholders’ 
interests.  FY19 annual bonuses, if determined to be earned, 
for executive leadership were authorized to be paid in 
equity and not cash to further align management with the 
long-term interests of investors. 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

51

PAY FOR 
PERFORMANCE  

Our Annual Incentive Plan drives critical short-term achievements: 
challenges management to seek profitable sales growth on a 
company-wide basis and more efficient conversion of net earnings 
into deployable cash. Our equity compensation plan reflects good 
governance and reasonable compensation practices: 

 » Double-trigger change-in-control provisions for all stock-
based awards under our equity compensation plan

 »

Stockholder approval required to increase share reserve 

 » No discounted stock options or stock appreciation rights 

 »

Repricing of equity awards not allowed 

 » No liberal share recycling 

 » No tax gross-ups   

To strongly align their interests with stockholders’ interests, 
our officers and directors are required to build ownership of a 
significant amount of Evoqua stock (5x base salary in the case 
of our CEO; 3x base salary for all other executive officers; and 
5x annual cash retainer in the case of our non-management 
directors). We also prohibit our officers and directors from 
hedging, margining, pledging, short-selling or publicly trading 
options in our stock. We adopted a robust Clawback Policy 
that allows recoupment of incentive compensation earned by 
executive officers or other employees in the event of a material 
restatement of our financial statements or certain misconduct 
that causes economic or reputational damage to Evoqua.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

52

ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE 

ANTI-CORRUPTION 
POLICY

Our Global Ethics and Compliance Program is overseen 
by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. On 
a more frequent basis, our compliance team reports 
to our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and 
Corporate Secretary, who also serves as our Chief 
Compliance Officer. We have a Code of Business Ethics 
and Conduct publicly available on our website that 
contains many of our policies. We we have outlined a 
few in this Report that are of specific interest to those 
with ESG in mind.

Evoqua has a comprehensive anti-bribery/anti-
corruption program that includes: policies prohibiting 
bribes, both governmental and commercial; training on 
anti-corruption policies and procedures; due diligence 
on all third-party intermediaries, with continuous 
monitoring of high-risk third parties; strict requirements 
around gifts, travel and entertainment of government 
officials; and internal auditing of anti-corruption 
program policies, procedures and controls. To prevent 
corruption, our management team receives periodic, 
targeted anti-corruption training. For more details on 
our strong anti-corruption and related policies, please 
see our publicly available Code of Conduct.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

53

WHISTLEBLOWER
PROGRAM AND POLICY

Evoqua is committed to conducting business in an ethical 
and legal manner. This is underlined by the principle 
that no profit is ever worth compromising employee 
safety or the Company’s integrity. The purpose of the 
Employee Concern Policy is to: encourage employees to 
raise concerns internally for investigation and resolution, 
provide avenues for employees to raise concerns and 
assure employees that they will be protected from 
retaliation.  

Evoqua’s Compliance Helpline is staffed by a third party 
and is available twenty-four hours a day, seven-days-
a-week. Our Employee Concern Policy ensures that 
anyone using the Helpline can report anonymously and 
without fear of retaliation. Employee concerns are taken 
seriously, and the Company is committed to investigating 
and responding to every report. Our independently run 
Helpline is available for all internal and external parties 
in six different languages twenty-four hours a day, seven 
days a week. The availability of the Helpline is proactively 

communicated to employees through our electronic 
employee newsletter, the Intranet, printed materials at 
every Evoqua location, as well as regular communication 
throughout the year, including during employee Town 
Hall meetings.  

The helpline and compliance team are available to help 
employees by providing guidance on compliance-related 
topics or any other concerns that could impact the 
Company’s integrity. To build upon our High Performance 
Culture and corporate Values, which include Integrity 
as a key component of doing business, and to ensure 
our leaders are equipped with the tools and resources 
necessary to foster a positive work environment, we offer 
Positive Employee Relations (PER) training. This program 
emphasizes to managers that they play a key role in 
creating a workplace free of harassment and retaliation. 
It also stresses the importance of collaboration and open 
communication at work.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

54

OUR SUPPLY 
CHAIN

We maintain a cost-effective, diversified procurement program 
through strong relationships with strategic suppliers across key inputs. 
The top materials in our supply chain include metal, calcium nitrate, 
membranes and ion exchange resin. Further, we seek to insource 
certain products that align with our existing core competencies, 
including our manufacturing capabilities, and further enable us to 
provide our customers with a complete lifecycle solution. We seek 
sources of supply from multiple suppliers and often from multiple 
geographies. We believe that our supply chain is well positioned to 
remain stable.

We have a comprehensive, legally binding Supplier Code of Conduct  
for our suppliers that ensures we are partnering with businesses that 
share our desire to respect international human and environmental 
rights through good business ethics. The procedures we have in 
place help us manage compliance-related issues associated with our 
vendors and customers. We provide training to our employees on our 
monitoring program to vet and monitor our customers and suppliers.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

55

OUR SUPPLY 
CHAIN

We are dedicated to ensuring that we respect human rights 
throughout our supply chain. We do this through our Supplier 
Code of Conduct, Employee Code of Conduct, Modern Slavery 
Statement and Conflict Minerals Policy. 

In our Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier onboarding process, 
we question our suppliers to ensure that they are limiting negative 
environmental impacts in their operations and require certification 
through a Declaration in the Supplier Code prior to engagement. 
In order to assure that we engage only suppliers who follow 
fundamentally compliant and ethical business practices, and who 
share our commitment to these principles, we have a two-phased 
process in our Supply Chain Protocol. This includes an initial 
assessment that each supplier must complete and submit our 
Supplier Questionnaire which is evaluated to determine if we will 
use their products, followed by a second assurance phase, our 
Compliance Requirement Auditing processes.  We also monitor 
our suppliers and customers for major compliance incidents. We 
systematically monitor our suppliers for major environmental 
controversies. In FY20 and FY21 we will be working to build this 
out to a more proactive and innovative program. 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

56

TRANSFORMING WATER.
ENRICHING LIFE.

© 2020 Evoqua Water Technologies LLC 
Subject to change without notice 

CONTACT US 
We are excited about our journey ahead 
within our growing sustainability program. 
If you would like to engage with us, please 
email sustainability@evoqua.com

210 Sixth Avenue 
Suite 3300 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
+1-724-772-0044 
www.evoqua.com

 
