201 6 SUSTAI NAB I LIT Y SU M MARY

TR ANSFORMING 
WATER .   
ENRICHING
LIFE .

TABLE  
OF CONTENTS

OV E RV I E W

04 

Sustainability. It starts with a clear strategy

05  About Evoqua

06 

07  

Purpose, mission, vision & values

Environmental, health and safety

E N V I R O N M E N TA L  S T E WA R D S H I P

10 

11 

12 

14 

15 

16 

2016 key operational impacts

Sustainability – continuous improvement

Conservation through enhancements, modifications, and leveraging lean thinking

Conserving resources through solid waste reduction and metals recovery

Achieving sustainability through carbon reactivation

Helping our customers achieve sustainability

CO R P O R AT E G OV E R N A N C E

18 

21 

Corporate governance programs

Evoqua’s Compliance Process

S O C I A L FAC TO R S

23  Human rights assurance

24 

Supply chain protocol

0 2

OVERVIEW

SUSTAINABILITY 
IT STARTS WITH A CLEAR STRATEGY

Evoqua has been a leader in sustainability 

Our 2016 Sustainability report provides a glimpse 

for decades…generations before it became a 

of just a few of our corporate responsibility 

standard practice across industry.

accomplishments.  We invite you to learn more 

about how we Transform Water and Enrich Life 

and engage with us. 

For more than 100 years, we have worked 

to protect water, protect the environment 

and protect employees…both our own and 

customers’.  It’s why we say our Purpose is 

Transforming Water and Enriching Life.  

The foundation for everything we do is in our 

Values (see page 6). Evoqua is committed to 

ensuring all of our employees live our Values 

each and every day.  The same holds true for 

our Business Conduct Guidelines.  It is through 

this commitment that we achieve measurable 

success.

0 4

RON C. KEATING  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

OVERVIEWEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYABOUT EVOQUA

Evoqua Water Technologies is the global  

Evoqua’s unparalleled portfolio of proven brands, 

leader in helping municipalities and industrial 

advanced technologies, mobile and emergency 

customers protect and improve the world’s  

water supply solutions and service helps cities 

most fundamental natural resource: water. 

across the world provide and discharge clean 

Evoqua has a more than 100-year heritage of 

water, and enable commercial industry to 

innovation and industry firsts, market-leading 

maximize productivity and profitability.

For more information, visit www.evoqua.com.

expertise, and unmatched customer service, 

where we continue to transform water and 

wastewater. Our cost-effective and reliable 

treatment systems and services ensure 

uninterrupted quantity and quality of water, 

enable regulatory and environmental compliance, 

increase efficiency through water reuse, and 

prepare customers for next-generation demands. 

AS PART OF THE WHITE HOUSE WATER SUMMIT HELD APRIL 22, 2016 IN CONJUNCTION 
WITH THE UNITED NATIONS WORLD WATER DAY, EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 
ANNOUNCED IT WILL DOUBLE THE AMOUNT OF WATER IT TREATS FOR REUSE AND 
RECLAMATION TO 5 BILLION GALLONS OF WATER A DAY BY 2021, OR ENOUGH TO  
SERVE 50 MILLION AMERICANS A DAY AT CURRENT CONSUMPTION RATES.

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS 
CONDUCT

At Evoqua, we live our values each day in our 

interactions with each other, our customers and our 

third party partners. Every time we perform a task in  

our daily work, it’s another chance to do the right 

thing and make decisions in the best interests of 

the Company. At the end of the day, our business 

decisions are not just about profits; we impact people, 

communities and the environment. Working with this 

knowledge and making prudent decisions is what it 

means to work with integrity.

Protecting the environment and conserving natural 

resources is of the highest importance for our Company. 

Sustainable conduct forms the basis of our business 

decisions and dealings with our stakeholders. Through 

management leadership and employee commitment, 

Evoqua Water Technologies strives to conduct its 

operations in a manner that is safe for the environment 

and continually improves environmental performance. 

View the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.

0 5

OVERVIEWEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYOUR PURPOSE, MISSION,  
VISION & VALUES

Evoqua’s Purpose, Mission, Vision and Values 

OUR PURPOSE 

OUR VALUES

guide everything we do. And reinforce our 

unwavering commitment to customer service.

Transforming water. Enriching life.

Integrity: Do what’s right

OUR MISSION

•  We work safely

•  We are honest and keep our word

•  We lead by example and are good  

Evoqua will produce superior returns for our 

corporate citizens

customers, employees, and shareholders by 

•  We respect our employees, business 

providing best in class water solutions. We will 

partners and environment

double the reach of our business over the next 

5 years through served market and product 

Customers: The foundation of our success

expansion. In accordance with our values,  

we will operate with integrity while delivering 

on our promises as a trusted partner to our 

customers and our stakeholders.

•  We are responsive and reliable

•  We provide high quality solutions

•  We add value as a trusted partner

OUR VISION

The world’s first choice for water solutions

Performance: Deliver on promises

•  We will be even better tomorrow than today

•  We collaborate to win together

•  We meet or exceed expectations

0 6

OVERVIEWEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYENVIRONMENT, HEALTH
AND SAFETY

Evoqua is committed to conducting business in a 

OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES

manner that protects the health and safety of our 

employees, environment, customers, partners, and 

our communities. This commitment is reflected in 

the very first aspect under our stated Values – that 

as a basis of Integrity, “We will Work Safely.” Our 

practices, programs, and policies are proven and 

proactive, assuring compliance with applicable 

laws and regulations as a minimum foundation. 

Our facilities are designed and operated to high 

standards with the systematic anticipation, 

recognition, evaluation, and control of safety, 

health, and environmental risks.

EVOQUA WAS AWARDED THE 2015 GOLD AWARD 
FOR EXCELLENT SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT THE 
CHEVRON REFINERY IN EL SEGUNDO, CALIF. 
THIS AWARD IS CHEVRON’S HIGHEST SAFETY 
RECOGNITION, PRESENTED ON AN ANNUAL 
BASIS TO ITS PARTNERS WHO CONSISTENTLY 
PROVIDE INCIDENT-FREE, ON-SITE SERVICES 
OVER AN ENTIRE CALENDAR YEAR PERIOD.

•  We will plan and perform our work in a 

•  We strive for continuous improvement in 

manner that is protective and respectful of 

all aspects of our EH&S Program, including 

our shared environment. We will meet or 

training, implementation, and motivation.

exceed all government regulations affecting 

•  Commitment to our EH&S standards is an 

our facilities. 

integral part of every employee’s job and a 

•  All employees are encouraged and expected 

key criterion of our performance evaluation 

to take an active role in our EH&S program, 

process.

and to accept a personal responsibility for 

protecting their own safety and health.

•  All employees are aware that they have 

both the right and responsibility to 

immediately halt and report unsafe or 

noncompliant activities that could endanger 

themselves, other personnel, property, or our 

environment. Management support of this 

policy is total and absolute.

•  We provide employees with education, 

training, equipment, and other resources so 

that they can effectively plan and perform all 

assigned work tasks in a safe, healthful, and 

compliant manner.

At Evoqua, we recognize that our employees 

are our most important resource. To protect this 

resource, we have implemented and maintained 

an effective EH&S Program targeted at building a 
work environment where every worker is enabled 
and empowered, and embraces a personal 
accountability for protecting their safety and 
health, as well as that of their co-workers. 

A key component of our Program is our behavior-

based process (our Loss Prevention System).

07

OVERVIEWEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYENVIRONMENT, HEALTH
AND SAFETY

As one indicator of Evoqua’s effective EH&S 

policies and processes, we have successfully 

achieved ISO certification for Quality 

LOSS PREVENTION SYSTEM – A SMARTER 
AND SAFER WAY TO DO BUSINESS

RESULTS

Loss Prevention System (LPS) is a set of tools 

Management Systems (9001), Environmental 

that proactively enable employees to identify and 

Management Systems (140001) and also 

eliminate at-risk behaviors that can lead to losses 

for Occupational Health and Safety (18001) 

and near losses, such as:

at 14 locations across the US and overseas.  

These certifications demonstrate that we 

have adequate controls in place to minimize 

production defects (which decrease the 

generation of wastes), environmental impacts, 

and to prevent unsafe conditions our workplaces.  

Our multiple ISO 14001 certified facilities are 

of particular relevance to sustainability as they 

demonstrate our on-going commitment to 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Personal injuries or illnesses

Equipment or property damage

Environmental releases

Regulatory violations

•  Operational or system inefficiencies

•  Motor vehicle accidents

EVOQUA’S LPS PHILOSOPHY

protecting our environment and reducing our 

At Evoqua, LPS is not simply a safety program, 

carbon footprint. 

it is a philosophy embedded in our culture 

and corporate strategy. Basic elements of this 

philosophy include:

• 

• 

• 

Incorporating LPS into our overall business plan

Ensuring company-wide participation

Recognizing and eliminating or controlling 

hazards before incidents occur

As depicted below, we have achieved and maintained excellent 

EH&S incident rates, indicative of the effectiveness of our 
EH&S programs and processes. Based on the most-recently 
published data from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, our 

incident rates are an average of more than 70% below the 

national rates for our industry and also for all private industry 
in the US. This proven performance has been recognized by our 
customers, as demonstrated by our receipt of the prestigious 

Gold Award for Safety from Chevron in 2016.

We are fully committed to ensuring the health and safety of 

all our employees and we are confident that we have the right 

systems in place to continue with this exceptional performance.  

COMPARISON OF EVOQUA INCIDENT RATES 
WITH NATIONAL RATES*

4

3

2

1

0

RIR

DART
¡ Evoqua    ¡ Private Industry    ¡ NAICS 3333    ¡ NAICS 2213

LTIR

*Source: US Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics

0 8

OVERVIEWEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP

E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T E WA R D S H I P

2016 KEY OPERATIONAL IMPACTS

THROUGH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF LEAN 
THINKING AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 
ACTIVITIES, EVOQUA IS REDUCING ITS 
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT WHILE 
CONTINUING TO EXCEED THE NEEDS  
OF OUR CUSTOMERS.

“Our operations are laser focused on efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle. By leveraging the 
Evoqua Lean Management philosophy, we are continuously searching for opportunities to 
eliminate waste. Waste minimization and energy usage reduction targets are established  
at the beginning of our Fiscal Year and included in the performance plans of plant leadership.  
Our approach has proven to be good for the environment and good for business. Our experience 
shows by applying Lean thinking to our sustainment activities we are able to consistently  
deliver solid returns on any required investments we make.” 

– Bob Myers, Sr. Director of North American Manufacturing

1 0

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYSUSTAINABILITY –  
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT

In 2016, Evoqua has taken several significant 

• 

Establishment of a Sustainability Committee 

Evoqua's success in our continuing sustainability 

steps to advance our commitment and processes 

comprised of volunteers from a cross section 

improvement activities have resulted in clear 

on Sustainability. Examples of these steps have 

of disciplines from around our company, 

benefits, and has resulted in recognition from key 

included:

with the full and outward endorsement of 

customers and regulators. As one example, in 

Executive Leadership

2016 Evoqua was recognized by the New Jersey 

•  Creation and implementation of written 

Department of Environmental Protection with 

Sustainability Charter

an Environmental Stewardship certification for 

our “voluntary and proactive measures taken to 

go beyond compliance in an effort to improve the 

environment and ensure a sustainable future.”

• 

Implemented processes that better 

measure our carbon footprint from key 

North American operations using concepts 

produced by the CDP, formerly the Carbon 

Disclosure Project.  These processes enable 

the measurement and management of 

environmental impacts.  Some examples are 

summarized below:  

 - Scope 1 Fleet emissions –  
(in tons CO2e) = 21,674

 - Scope 2 Operation emissions –  

(in tons CO2e) = 48,671

1 1

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYCONSERVATION THROUGH  
ENHANCEMENTS, MODIFICATIONS,  
AND LEVERAGING LEAN THINKING

Evoqua Water Technologies operates in more 

automatically adjust temperature settings during 

our engineering team, the facility was able to 

than 130 locations throughout North America. 

periods of low space utilization, and; equipment 

select and install our state-of-the-art “Nexed” 

The following examples highlight four of 

test facilities have been modified to allow 50% of 

technology and realize water reduction benefits 

our most notable operations and continued 

the test water to be reused. 

while maintaining water quality at the highest 

commitment to sustainability through 

conservation activities. 

Colorado Springs, CO -  Our Colorado 
Springs operation has taken a comprehensive 

Through the engagement of the entire team, 

test level. 

Colorado Springs continues to discover effective 

Additionally, through the application of Lean 

and efficient ways to operate, preserving our vital 

tools (in this case, value stream mapping), the 

resources and reducing our environmental 

Tewksbury team identified a cardboard solid 

approach to resource conservation:  Offices and 

footprint.

conference rooms have been equipped with 

motion detectors; Energy efficient lighting has 

been installed throughout the facility; Fixtures 

have been converted to a low water flow 

design; HVAC systems have been designed to 

Tewksbury, MA – Through the application 
of new and innovative Evoqua process water 

technology, the Tewksbury operation was able 

to reduce a process waste water stream in 

the testing operation by 50%. Working with 

waste stream associated with process shipping.  

Working with the material supplier and driving 

the philosophy of zero discharge facilities, a 

reuse and recycling process was developed that 

completely eliminated this cardboard waste 

stream. 

Solid Waste Disposal (pounds of waste generated per hours worked)

Water Usage (gallons used per hours worked )

Power (Kwh per hours worked)

Direct Labor Hours

FY13

3.88

54.08

26.57

FY14

2.87

48.95

21.45

FY15

3.17

36.65

24.11

FY16

3.31

30.22

23.12

352,115

357,940

333,598

369,374

Reduction from FY13 to FY16

10%

41%

13%

1 2

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 
CONSERVATION THROUGH  
ENHANCEMENTS, MODIFICATIONS,  
AND LEVERAGING LEAN THINKING

Rockford , IL – Evoqua provides industrial 
customers services and products utilizing 

Fleet Management – Evoqua operates a fleet of 
over 1,600 vehicles, which includes 600 trailers 

Evoqua has made measurable and continuing 

progress over past years on several key 

ion exchange resins to produce high-purity 

used to deliver water and wastewater treatment 

sustainability metrics. For example, for Fiscal 

deionized process water. As part of this offering, 

solutions to our customers. In 2016, we engaged 

Years (FY) 2013-2016, metrics for waste 

we condition and regenerate these resins for 

in an initiative to right-size our fleet which 

disposed, water usage, and power usage from 

recurring use.  Through extensive testing and 

resulted in the elimination of 14 under-utilized 

our key manufacturing facilities (i.e. Colorado 

analysis, our Rockford facility implemented 

vehicles and the replacement of over 25% of the 

Springs, CO; Holland, MI; Tewksbury and 

innovative ideas to recycle Sodium Hydroxide in 

fleet with more fuel efficient vehicles. The results 

Lowell, MA; and Thomasville, GA, and Union, 

our regeneration process. The result was a 25% 

of this initiative will reduce Evoqua’s annual fuel 

NJ) were established and monitored (as 

reduction in Sodium Hydroxide usage, lower 

consumption by more than 35,000 gallons per 

presented in the table on page 12). Varying 

processing costs, and a reduction in the caustic 

year. Evoqua’s Fleet Management team 

levels of business activity are accounted for by 

discharge waste stream.

continually evaluates sustainability 

dividing or “normalizing” the solid waste, energy 

By performing a mass balance of incoming 

materials, Rockford identified opportunities 

to reduce wood pallet, cardboard, and metal 

waste streams. Through partnership with local 

service providers, this waste stream was reduced 

by 75%, with all materials being recycled for 

alternate uses. 

improvements to provide the right balance 

consumption, and water consumption data by 

between lessening our environmental impact 

total direct labor hours for the five facilities.  

while maintaining an effective and efficient  

Over this period, the data demonstrate an  

fleet to service our customers.

overall improvement in efficiency over the  

FY13 – FY16 period.

1 3

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYCONSERVING RESOURCES THROUGH SOLID WASTE 
REDUCTION AND METALS RECOVERY

REDUCTION INITIATIVES

METALS RECOVERY

• 

Established a National Contract with 

• 

Eliminating or recycling wooden pallets

Evoqua operates a centralized treatment and 

Waste Management with a goal to increase 

•  Designing import crates to be re-used for 

recovery facility in Roseville, MN that processes 

diversion of landfill waste to reuse/recycle 

finished product shipment

metal-bearing aqueous materials received from 

by 4%

•  Distribution program established with key 

our customers. We work aggressively to recover 

• 

Implementing formal recycling programs 

suppliers to utilize pallets and containers 

and reclaim these metals. As shown in the table 

for cardboard, plastics, and other landfill 

from other supply streams

materials with local municipalities and  

waste handlers

• 

Reducing corrugated box use for  

incoming materials

METALS RECOVERY

below, these efforts have resulted in the recovery 

of over 628 thousand pounds of metals including 

Cadmium, Chrome, Copper, Lead, Magnesium, 

Nickel and Zinc.

FY 13

FY 14

FY 15

Cadmium

Chrome

260

204

420

32,451

43,631

44,690

Copper

51,849

53,190

65,387

Lead

473

387

382

Magnesium

2,491

4,747

2,446

Nickel

26,921

23,296

27,430

Zinc

94,588

78,496

75,202

In Pounds, FY = fiscal year
FY16 data will be available next year due to the timing of regulatory reports.

Total

209,033

203,951

215,956

628,940

1 4

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY  
THROUGH CARBON REACTIVATION

Evoqua’s carbon reactivation facilities utilize 

This carbon recycling process helps our customers 

a thermal processes to remove and destroy 

meet their sustainability goals by eliminating the 

Chemical Industry 
Removes pesticides, alcohols and  

organic constituents from spent activated 

need to land dispose spent carbon, and helps 

solvents from the water leaving plants 

carbon, reactivating the carbon and restoring its 

reduce the resource requirements (primarily coal 

adsorptive properties for reuse as an effective 

mining and other extractive technologies) as 

treatment medium. State-of-the-art pollution 

compared  to producing virgin activated carbon.

Petroleum Industry 
Reduced concentrations of phenols, heavy 

metals, volatile and semi-volatile organics

controls are employed to meet stringent emission 

control requirements at each of these facilities. 

We also strive to minimize our carbon footprint 

through energy recovery and control  

as demonstrated in the chart below.

LBS OF CO2 EMITTED PER LBS OF  
ACTIVATED CARBON PRODUCED

In addition to these significant waste minimization 

Substances containing greater than ninety 

and resource reduction benefits, the use of 

percent carbon can be utilized to manufacture 

reactivated carbon provides substantial benefits 

activated carbon, including varying grades of 

toward battling climate change. An independent 

coal, coconut shells, bones and walnut shells. 

study conducted by the University of California 

Reactivated carbon consists of cleaning out the 

Berkeley estimated that the reactivation of carbon 

pore structure through a burning process utilizing 

generates one eighth the carbon dioxide equivalents 

a kiln. The reactivation process recycles spent 

as compared to the production of virgin carbon.

carbons into new activated carbon materials that 

.80

.75

COMMON USES  
FOR ACTIVATED CARBON:

Municipal Drinking Water 
Removes taste/odor and organic 

Food and Beverage Industry 
Removes color and chlorine from  

process water used in products

FY 13

FY 14

FY 15

FY 16

FY = fiscal year

continue to provide excellent performance in 

many treatment applications. Evoqua supports 

our customers in their continued commitment 

to utilize reactivated carbon when permitted by 

industry regulations.

Learn more about Carbon Reactivation.

1 5

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYHELPING OUR CUSTOMERS  
ACHIEVE SUSTAINABILITY

Evoqua services over 200,000 installations 

Rimini, Italy - Consolidating Waste Treatment 

Even with this capacity, the MBR expansion occupies a small 

across the globe and services 90% of the Fortune 

Centers in an Environmentally Sensitive Region

footprint and helps cut the plant's overall energy costs.

500 companies. Here are a few examples of how 

we help our customers achieve their sustainability 

goals and meet environmental compliance. 

Set in the "Roman Riviera" on the Adriatic Sea, 

With the system in full operation, the plant is meeting or 

Rimini is the heart of a region that is historic, 

exceeding all of the strict requirements for discharge into 

scenic and fragile. Densely populated to begin 

surface water, and its effluent is compliant with reuse 

Evoqua is helping customers make generating 

with, the area receives a huge population influx 

requirements. Energy consumption is below industry 

sustainable energy a cleaner and more efficient process.

every tourist season that puts a strain on the 

benchmarks. Most important, because of the compact 

•  An Evoqua Boiler Feedwater Makeup System 

will help LA Sanitation meet a commitment 

to reduce its carbon footprint by operating 

the Hyperion Water Reclamation Plant on 

100% renewable energy.

• 

Evoqua to provide energy developer DCO 

Energy, LLC with a boiler feedwater makeup 

system and a condensate polishing system 

region's aging water resources. Rimini needed to 

footprint of the MemPulse MBR technology, Rimini was  

expand its Santa Giustina wastewater treatment 

able to complete the upgrade without acquiring and 

plant from serving 220,000 people to a 

developing new real estate, preserving the beauty and 

maximum of 560,000, absorbing and 

heritage of the land as well as the sea in this special  

demolishing two existing treatment plants in  

part of the world.

the area. The overall goal: to eliminate discharges 

to the Adriatic Sea by 2020 and preserve the 

beauty of this legendary seacoast region.

for a new $200 million 50 MW biomass/

The resulting solution is one of the largest 

wood waste-to-energy cogeneration project 

Membrane Bioreactor wastewater treatment 

for consumer products giant Procter & 

facilities in Europe. Its total filtration area is 

Gamble Co. This project will help our 

approximately 150,000 square meters and 

customer’s customer meet a commitment  

includes nearly 4,000 Mempulse MBR modules. 

to operate on 100% renewable steam.

1 6

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIPEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYCORPOR ATE
GOVERNANCE 

CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS

ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM 

Evoqua is committed to doing business the 

right way. We’re continually striving to earn 

and keep the trust of our customers and the 

communities where we work and live. One way 

we meet that commitment is through our ethics 

and compliance program. Our program identifies 

key risks in our organization, develops standards 

and processes to address those risks, and then 

brings those standards and processes to life in 

our business.

The Company’s ethics and compliance platform 

weaves the basic elements of an effective 

program through each initiative. Among other 

things, an effective compliance program 

identifies and prevents misconduct, encourages 

employees to report potential problems, and 

develops procedures that allow the prompt, 

thorough investigation of alleged misconduct.

1 8

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYThe Evoqua Ethics and Compliance Program 

•  Training and Communication 

•  Reporting and Investigating 

addresses the following elements: 

Compliance programs include customized 

The organization encourages employees who 

• 

Standards of Conduct 
Our newly redesigned and issued  

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  

firmly establishes our commitment to  

“Do what is right.”

•  Governance and Oversight 

An ethics and compliance program 

is established each fiscal year. The 

organization’s ethics and compliance 

function reports up through the Company’s 

Legal Department and has the support  

of Internal Audit. The function provides 

regular reporting to executive management 

on key compliance programs.

training issued organization wide. 

become aware of a violation or a potential 

Communication plans are tailored to 

violation to report the issue through a variety 

applicable audiences and employees where 

of means: Management, Human Resources, 

English is a second language are given due 

or the organization’s Compliance Helpline. 

consideration through translated policies, 

Employees can also submit questions or 

forms, and training.

•  Monitoring and Auditing 

Implemented compliance programs include 

key preventative and detective controls. 

Ethics and Compliance partners with Internal 

Audit, as well as external experts to perform 

concerns to the Compliance Helpline either 

via phone or the web. The Helpline is staffed 

by a third-party and is available 24/7/365. 

Reports to the Helpline can be made 

anonymously. Evoqua pledges to investigate 

and react to every report.

compliance reviews. 

•  Response, Prevention, Enforcement,  

and Discipline 
Evoqua’s Ethics and Compliance programs 

are designed to respond appropriately to 

misconduct and to prevent further similar 

misconduct, including making any necessary 

modifications to the current program and 

taking corrective action.

1 9

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYTAKING A STAND AGAINST BRIBERY 
AND CORRUPTION

Evoqua enhanced our Anti-Corruption program 

Policies and forms were translated for  

during fiscal 2016 through the following 

our global workforce.

We are committed to maintaining a best in 

class Anti-Corruption Program. We strive to 

make continual improvements to our program 

to ensure we have effective preventative 

and detective controls in place to address 

misconduct. 

activities: 

The Company strictly prohibits bribery in 

•  A new, improved Anti-Corruption Policy for 

any form and at any amount or value. The 

both employees and indirect sales channels

organization fully supports any employee, officer, 

•  An improved indirect sales channel due 

director, or third party acting on the Company’s 

diligence program, which includes third-

behalf who declines an opportunity or advantage 

party training and Code of Conduct sign-off

in a business transaction if engaging or 

• 

Live, customized Anti-Corruption training 

participating in the transaction would place  

provided to the global organization

the Company at legal or reputational risk. 

• 

Improved gifts and entertainment,  

reporting, tracking, and monitoring

•  A new Employee Concern policy that 

reiterates the Company’s commitment 

against retaliation (e.g. "whistle-blower" 

protections)

•  A new, improved Code of Ethics and 

Business Conduct with enhanced bribery, 

corruption, and anti-retaliation

2 0

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYEVOQUA'S COMPLIANCE PROCESS

Effectiveness
Evaluation

Risk Assessment

INDIVIDUAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAM PROCESS

Policy

•  Review and revise existing policy or 
  create policy
•  Establish new policy

Procedure

•  Review and revise established procedure
•  Establish new procedure
•  Establish controls and monitoring process

Comm.

•  Establish “need to know” population
•  Communicate policy/process/training

Establish 
Compliance 
Plan

Monitoring

Training

•  Create and execute training program
•  Monitor completion
•  Update on regular cadence

Auditing and 
Coordination with IA

2 1

CORPORATE GOVERNANCEEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYSOCIAL   
FACTORS 

HUMAN RIGHTS ASSURANCE 

At Evoqua, we treat each other with respect 

and courtesy. Consistent with our corporate 

principles and with the employment laws of the 

countries in which we work, we do not tolerate 

discrimination, intimidation, harassment, 

bullying, or indecent conduct of any kind. These 

principles apply to both internal cooperation  

and conduct towards external partners.

EMPLOYEES, PARTNERS AND  
SUPPLIERS OF EVOQUA DECLARE

Respect for basic human rights:

•  To provide fair remuneration and to 

•  To promote equal opportunities for and 

treatment of employees irrespective of 

race, color, religion, sex, national origin, 

age, disability, genetic information, gender 

identity or expression, or veteran status

•  To respect the personal dignity and rights 

of each individual allowing for a safe, 

comfortable, and professional  

work environment

•  To refuse to employ or make anyone work 

against his or her will

•  To refuse to tolerate any unacceptable 

treatment of an individual that unreasonably 

interferes with operational objectives

•  To prohibit behavior including gestures, 

language, and physical contact, that is 

sexual, coercive, threatening, abusive, or 

exploitative

guarantee the applicable national statutory 

minimum wage

•  To comply with the maximum number of 

working hours according to applicable law

•  To recognize the right of free association 

of employees and to neither favor nor 

discriminate against members of employee 

organizations or trade unions

Prohibition of child labor:

•  To not employ child or forced labor in 

any of our global facilities as defined by 

International Labour Organization (ILO) 

Convention 138.

2 3

SOCIAL FACTORSEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYSUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

Evoqua expects its suppliers to share our  

values. Furthermore, we require suppliers to 

act in accordance with the following principles 

concerning responsibilities to its stakeholders 

and the environment:

•  Comply with all applicable laws

SUPPLIER SELF-ASSESSMENT  
QUESTIONNAIRE

As part of our supplier qualification process, 

selected suppliers are required to complete a 

self-assessment questionnaire. The selection 

criteria for when a supplier is to complete the 

self-assessment is based on several factors  

Prohibit corruption

• 

• 

Respect basic human rights of employees

such as: 

•  Comply with laws prohibiting child labor

•  Take responsibility for the health and safety 

of employees

•  Act in accordance with applicable  

statutory and international standards 

regarding environmental protection

• 

Further promote this Supplier Code of 

Conduct to their own suppliers

The Supplier Code of Conduct is required for  

all new suppliers to sign and return to Evoqua. 

•  The part is an Evoqua designed part

•  The supplier is in a high-risk country as 

defined by TI/CPI* guidelines

•  The purchased part is within a critical 

commodity (such as castings, fabrications), 

the part is produced using a critical process 

(such as welding, galvanizing)

•  The part is a critical component of the end 

product (as defined by Engineering)

•  There is a potential for a high for dollar 

spend (either estimated annual spend is 

greater than $50,000 or a single PO dollar 

amount in excess of the same amount) 

*  The high risk designation is based on the Corruption Perceptions Index 
(CPI) score which is published annually by Transparency International

2 4

SOCIAL FACTORSEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

SUPPLY CHAIN RISK ASSESSMENT 

During Fiscal Year 2016, Evoqua established 

a Supply Chain Risk Assessment process to 

identify supplier spend in high-risk countries. The 

Risk Assessment process utilizes Evoqua supplier 

spend and location data from the current year 

and correlates the data against country risk 

rankings from Transparency International and the 

World Bank. 

Risk factors included are: 

•  Voice and Accountability: the extent to 

which a country's citizens are able to 

participate in government selection, freedom 

of expression, freedom of association, and 

free media*

• 

Political Stability and Absence of Violence: 

the likelihood of political instability and/

or politically-motivated violence, including 

terrorism*

* World Bank Governance Indicators

•  Government Effectiveness: the quality 

of public services, civil service, policy 

formulation and implementation*

• 

Regulatory Quality: the ability of the 

government to formulate and implement 

sound policies and regulations that permit 

and promote private sector development*

• 

Rule of Law: the extent to which agents 

have confidence in and abide by the rules 

of society, and in particular the quality 

of contract enforcement, property rights, 

the police, and the courts, as well as the 

likelihood of crime and violence*

•  Control of Corruption: the extent to which 

public power is exercised for private gain, 

including both petty and grand forms of 

corruption, as well as "capture" of the state 

by elites and private interests*

The results of the first assessment will inform 

the creation of additional supply chain controls 

to complement the existing supplier due 

diligence process. This newly established Risk 

Assessment process supplements our existing 

programs for Modern Slavery Act and California 

Transparency in Supply Chains Act compliance. 

The Risk Assessment process also provides 

senior leadership with greater insight into the 

organization’s supply chain.

2 5

SOCIAL FACTORSEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY 
SUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT 

In order to assure that we engage only suppliers 

periodic basis of at least once every 3 years  

who follow fundamentally compliant and 

(or more frequently if an Evoqua employee 

ethical business practices, and who share 

suspects or discovers a violation of our  

our commitment to these principles, we have 

Supplier Code of Conduct).

In 2016, 100% of new Suppliers that we 

engaged completed and submitted Supplier 

Questionnaires.

implemented a two-phased process in our 

Supply Chain Protocol. This includes an initial 

assessment that each Supplier must complete 

and submit (our Supplier Questionnaire) which 

is evaluated to determine if we will use their 

products, followed by a second assurance 

phase (our Compliance Requirement Auditing 

processes) which involves conducting actual 

onsite audits at the Supplier’s facilities to 

evaluate how well Supplier Questionnaire 

responses align with their actual practices and 

operations. Suppliers undergo an audit on a 

* Supplier provided Code of Conduct included the same  
information as Evoqua Supplier Code of Conduct.

2 6

SOCIAL FACTORSEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYSUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP

The minerals identified as contributing to human 

Evoqua requires that suppliers respond in a 

Evoqua continues our commitment to developing 

internal processes that align with both the 

California Transparency in Supply Chain Act and 

the SEC’s requirements on Conflict Minerals to 

mitigate the risk of slavery and human trafficking 

in our supply chain. 

In 2010, Congress enacted the Conflict Minerals 

provisions (“Section 1502”) of the Dodd-Frank 

Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 

Act. Section 1502 requires public companies to 

disclose annually to the Securities and Exchange 

Commission (“SEC”) their due diligence design 

and process utilized to determine whether 

certain minerals used in applicable products 

originated from conflict mines located in the 

Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) or 

other adjoining countries.

rights abuses in the DRC and adjoining countries 

timely and accurate basis to requests regarding 

by funding armed groups are gold, columbite-

conflict mineral usage for products and services 

tantalite (coltan), cassiterite and wolframite, and 

necessary to the functionality or production of 

their derivatives (i.e. tantalum, tin and tungsten.  

the product. Full transparency and thorough 

Although Evoqua is not currently a public 

supply chain due diligence is required to identify 

company subject to the Conflict Minerals filing 

mineral smelters (when applicable) as part of 

requirements, we respect the intent of Section 

doing business with our Company.

1502 to decrease human rights abuses in the 

DRC and adjoining countries and is committed  

to responding to customer requests for 

information on our products and services.

Evoqua relies on information obtained 

downstream from key suppliers to provide 

conflict mineral information to customers.   

We requires suppliers to contractually commit 

to our "Code of Conduct for Evoqua Suppliers”, 

and we expect that these standards will be 

promoted down the supply chain to any lower-

tier contractors or suppliers.

Suppliers are encouraged to utilize certified 

conflict free smelters (CFS) and refiners for the 

production of EWT products and services. 

In addition, suppliers must certify that they are 

in compliance with the laws in the countries 

in which they operate. Suppliers who are in 

violation of our Supplier Code of Conduct and 

local law are subject to corrective action plans  

or termination.

2 7

SOCIAL FACTORSEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARYCONTACT US

181 Thorn Hill Road 

Warrendale, PA 15086 USA

+1 (866) 926-8420

evoqua.com

© 2016 Evoqua Water Technologies, LLC.  

Subject to change without notice.

2 8

OVERVIEWEVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY