Transforming Water. 
Enriching Life.® 
2018 SUSTAINABILITY SUMMARY

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
OVERVIEW 

04  CEO letter

05     Who we are

07   How we do it: environment, health and safety

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

14 

2018 leading by example

16   Our sustainable future

17   Conservation: solid waste and energy reduction, metals recovery and 

carbon reactivation

20   Achieving sustainability through waste to energy solutions

21  Achieving sustainability through resource recovery

22  Sustainability is a collaborative effort 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

24  Corporate governance programs

SOCIAL FACTORS 

28  Human rights assurance 

29  Supply chain protocol

02

OVERVIEW

OVERVIEW

CEO LETTER

Transforming Water. Enriching Life. This is our brand promise to customers, 
employees and shareholders and it forms the foundation of our purpose at 
Evoqua.

For more than a century, Evoqua and our brands have been leaders in 
protecting water, preserving the environment and supporting our employees 
who bring our purpose and vision to life every day.

Our values provide a framework for how we operate as a business and engage 
as individuals with our colleagues, customers, partners and communities. 
These shared values are intrinsically woven into the fabric of our corporate 
culture. They reflect Evoqua’s dedication to sustainability and inspire us to 
continue developing solutions for the World’s complex water challenges. 

The same holds true for our Business Conduct Guidelines. Covering areas 
including ethics and compliance, anti-corruption, supply chain protocols and 
human rights, these corporate governance programs support our shared values 
and help us achieve measurable success. 

Our 2018 Sustainability report provides more detail on our corporate 
responsibility programs and accomplishments. We invite you to engage with us 
and learn more about how we Transform Water and Enrich Life.

RON C. KEATING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

OVERVIEW

WHO WE ARE

Evoqua Water Technologies is a leading 
provider of mission critical water 
treatment solutions to support our 
customers’ full water life-cycle needs. 
Evoqua Water Technologies has worked 
to protect water, the environment 
and its employees for over 100 years, 
earning a reputation for quality, safety 
and reliability around the world. 

Evoqua’s unparalleled portfolio of 
proven  advanced technologies, mobile 
and emergency solutions and integrated 
services enable industries to optimize 
performance and minimize discharge; 
assist municipalities to achieve water 
quality and quantity targets; and  help 
recreational facilities provide safe, 
healthy environments. 

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 

At Evoqua, we exercise our values each day in our 
interactions with each other, our customers and our third-
party partners. Every time we perform a task in our daily 
work, it’s another chance to do the right thing.

At the end of the day, our business decisions are not just 
about profits; we impact people, communities and the 
environment. Working with this purpose and making prudent 
decisions is what it means for each of use to work with 
integrity.

Protecting the environment and conserving natural resources 
is of the highest priority for our Company. Sustainable 
practices form the basis of our business decisions and 
dealings with our stakeholders. 

OVERVIEW

WHAT IT MEANS
PURPOSE, MISSION, VISION & VALUES 

Evoqua’s purpose, mission, vision 

and values guide everything we 

do. It reinforces our unwavering 

commitment to customer service.

OUR PURPOSE

OUR VALUES

Transforming water. Enriching life.

Integrity: Do what’s right

OUR MISSION

Evoqua will produce superior returns for our 
customers, employees, and shareholders by 
providing best in class water solutions. We will 
strive to double the reach of our business over the 
next 5 years through served market and product 
expansion. In accordance with our values, we 
will operate with integrity while delivering on our 
promises as a trusted partner to our customers and 
our stakeholders.

OUR VISION

The world’s first choice for water solutions.

•  We work safely
•  We are honest and keep our word
•  We lead by example and are good corporate citizens
•  We respect our employees, business partners and 

environment

Customers: The foundation of our success

•  We are responsive and reliable
•  We provide high quality solutions
•  We add value as a trusted partner

Performance: Deliver on promises

•  We will be even better tomorrow than today
•  We collaborate to win together
•  We meet or exceed expectations

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

06

OVERVIEW

HOW WE DO IT
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 

OUR PROMISE:

•  Providing safe and engaging work places for our employees, and protecting the safety of the 

Evoqua will provide our solutions, 
products, and services in a safe, 
environmentally sound and socially 
responsible manner. We will conduct our 
operations in a manner that meets the 
needs of Evoqua and our stakeholders, 
while protecting and sustaining the 
human and natural resources that will be 
needed into the future. Evoqua considers 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), 
and Sustainability to be an organizational 
responsibility that is integral to our 
success.

communities in which we operate

•  Achieving compliance, at a minimum, with applicable EHS legal requirements, and 

conforming to other requirements to which the company subscribes

•  Protecting the environment by managing the usage of raw materials and energy while 

reducing waste, preventing pollution, and re-using and recycling materials and resources to 
the extent that is economically and technically feasible 

• 

Improving EHS management system and performance by establishing meaningful objectives 
and targets

•  Monitoring and evaluating EHS performance as it relates to applicable requirements and 

established objectives and targets

•  Managing EHS risks and ensuring the integration of EHS considerations into business 

decisions

•  Providing qualified and adequate resources to implement EHS best practices for our 

industry.

•  Communicating our EHS and Sustainability activities and performance with integrity and 

transparency

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

07

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
WE ENABLE AND EMPOWER

ENABLED AND EMPOWERED

At Evoqua, we recognize that our employees are our most 
important resource. To protect this resource, we have 
implemented and maintained an effective EH&S Program 
targeted at building a work environment where each 
employee is enabled and empowered and embraces a personal 
accountability for protecting their safety and health, as well as 
that of their co-workers

Our EH&S processes are an integral part of 
every employee’s job and a key criterion of our 
performance evaluation process. 

Two primary components of our EHS Program 
are our own behavior- based process (our 
Loss Prevention System) and our internal EHS 
Management System.

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

08

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY
OUR BLENDED APPROACH 

LOSS PREVENTION SYSTEM AND EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

Loss Prevention System (LPS)

Environment, Health & Safety System

The LPS is a system to prevent or reduce 
losses using behavior-based tools and proven 
management techniques. The objective is to 
eliminate undesirable behaviors which can lead 
to incidents. The program includes:

Pre-job task review

• 

Job Safety Analysis

•  Observations

• 

• 

Incident Investigations

Stewardship

At Evoqua, the EHS Management System (SM) 
outlines our program elements of how we integrate 
EHS into the business. Our EHS Leadership and 
Stewardship Networks are embedded in our culture 
and corporate strategy. Basic elements of this 
program include:

• 

Leadership Commitment

•  Organizational Roles & Responsibilities

• 

Planning

•  Communication & Participation

•  Governance & Oversite 

The use of the LPS tool has resulted in 
Evoqua maintaining a zero incident rate 
at a majority of our business locations in 
fiscal year 2018.  

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

09

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY
OUR BLENDED APPROACH CONT.

Evoqua empowers all employees to work safely and prevent injuries. The primary tool 
our employees utilize to ensure safe working conditions is the Safe Performance Self 
Assessment (SPSA). All employees are trained to perform an SPSA which mandates 
that before beginning any activity, task or job each employee shall:

•  Assess the Risk
•  Analyze How to Reduce the Risk
•  Act to Ensure Safe Operations

Every Evoqua employee has the right, authority and responsibility to stop any unsafe 
work without repercussion.

GOAL
<0.20 
2019 GLOBAL 
LOST TIME 
INJURY RATE

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

10

ISO ACHIEVEMENTS 

We have successfully achieved ISO certification for the 
Environmental Management Systems (14001-2015) at 
multiple locations globally and for the Occupational Health 
and Safety Assessment Series (OHSA 18001) at locations in 
Europe and Australia. These certifications demonstrate that 
adequate controls are in place to minimize defects (which 
decrease the generation of wastes), environmental impacts, 
and to prevent unsafe conditions in our workplaces.  Our 
multiple ISO 14001-2015 certified facilities demonstrate our 
on-going commitment to sustainability by protecting our 
environment and reducing our carbon footprint.

ACTIONS

Evoqua has prevention-based tools which focus on the reporting of Near Losses (NL’s) and a robust 
employee observation program. These processes are intended to get out in front of events before 
they occur.  Evoqua’s Leadership and Stewardship networks are responsible for cascading Leadership’s 
Vision for Safety throughout the Evoqua Business Segments.  

These groups meet routinely to discuss trends, issues, current topics and develop action plans relative 
to those items.

REDUCING OUR RISKS

Even with this level of activity, leadership and 
engagement, incidents will occasionally occur.  
When injuries or incidents occur, Evoqua uses 
tools to investigate and determine the causes of 
incidents.  

Evoqua issues summaries for the outputs of 
incident investigations as Lessons Learned 
throughout the organization. The intent is to learn 
from past events to prevent recurrence. 

ADDRESS WHAT 
DISRUPTS SAFETY

C

O

H

P

E

H

R

I
L

E

N

O

T

S

O

S

A

P

F

H

E

Y

T

Y

TREND FAILURE TYPES 

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

12

 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP

2018 LEADING BY EXAMPLE

Rockford , IL – Evoqua provides 
industrial customers services and 
products utilizing ion exchange 
resins to produce high-purity 
deionized process water. As part 
of this offering, we condition and 
regenerate these resins for recurring 
use. Through extensive testing 
and analysis, our Rockford facility 
implemented innovative ideas to 
recycle Sodium Hydroxide in our 
regeneration process. The result was 
a 25% reduction in Sodium Hydroxide 
usage, lower processing costs, and 
a reduction in the caustic discharge 
waste stream.

In 2018, the Chesterfield County Department 
of Utilities Industrial Waste Pretreatment 
Program awarded Evoqua Water Technologies 
a Platinum Award for having achieved 
excellence in environmental stewardship 
through compliance with local and federal 
standards related to industrial wastewater 
treatment located in the North Chesterfield, 
Virginia facility.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

OUR SUSTAINABLE FUTURE

FLEET MANAGEMENT 

Evoqua operates a fleet of over 1600 units, which includes 
600 trailers utilized to deliver water and waste treatment 
solutions to our customers. We continually work to minimize 
our footprint through focusing on vehicles that deliver value 
to our business with a lower environmental impact.  

Our customer service driven philosophy demands that 
we identify opportunities that increase efficiency without 
compromise. The expansion of GPS units into all commercial 
and non-commercial vehicles in 2018 is providing greater 
visibility that is assisting in fewer miles being driven.   

As a result of updating our fleet vehicles, Evoqua purchased 
20,000 fewer gallons of fuel this year than in the previous 
year. Evoqua will field test our first hybrid vehicles in 2019, 
delivering continued reduction in fuel consumption. 

Evoqua’s Fleet Management team continually 
evaluates sustainability improvements to provide the 
right balance between lessening our environmental 
impact while maintaining an effective and efficient 
fleet to service our customers.  

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

16

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

Evoqua Water Technologies operates in more than 130 locations throughout North America.

WASTE REDUCTION INITIATIVES IMPLEMENTED

• 

• 

• 

• 

Establish a national contract with Waste Management with a goal to increase diversion of landfill waste to 
reuse/recycle

Implement formal recycling programs for cardboard, plastics, and other landfill materials with local 
municipalities and waste handlers

Reduce corrugated box use for incoming materials

Eliminate or recycle wooden pallets

•  Design import crates to be re-used for finished product shipment

• 

Establish distribution program with key suppliers to utilize pallets and containers from other supply streams

36% WATER  
REDUCTION 
FROM FY17*

18% POWER  
REDUCTION 
FROM FY17*

*Data from the major manufacturing facilities: Thomasville, Union, Tewksbury, Holland, Colorado Springs
*Data is compiled using gallons per hour worked/Kwh per hours worked

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

17

CONSERVATION THROUGH SOLID WASTE AND ENERGY REDUCTION ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

CONSERVATION THROUGH METALS RECOVERY

Evoqua operates a centralized treatment 

and recovery facility in Roseville, MN 

that processes metal-bearing aqueous 

materials received from our customers. 

We work aggressively to recover and 

reclaim these metals. As shown in the 

table below, these efforts have resulted 

in the recovery of over 621 tons of 

metals including (but not limited to): 

Cadmium, Chromium, Copper, Lead, 

Magnesium, Nickel and Zinc.

621TONS 

RECOVERED IN 
THE LAST 6 YEARS

THE STATUE 
OF LIBERTY
MONUMENT 
NEARLY

X3*

Fiscal Year

Cadmium

Chromium

Copper

Lead

Magnesium

Nickel

Zinc

Total Pounds

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

260

204

420

459

406

364

32,451

43,631

44,690

44,722

42,442

41,327

51,849

53,190

65,387

64,952

65,228

63,088

473

387

382

395

335

304

2,491

4,747

2,446

1,374

1,219

1,094

26,921

23,296

27,430

21,611

23,341

4,584

94,588

78,496

75,202

72,051

70,130

73,973

209,033

203,951

215,956

205,562

203,101

204,734

*Statue of Liberty weighs 225 tons as described by The Statue of Liberty - Ellis Island Foundation, Inc. 

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

18

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

CONSERVATION THROUGH CARBON REACTIVATION

In addition to these significant waste minimization and 
resource reduction benefits, the use of reactivated carbon 
provides substantial benefits toward battling climate change 
and reducing air pollution emissions. An independent study 
conducted by the University of California Berkeley estimated 
that the reactivation of carbon results in substantial reduction 
of pollution emissions as compared to the production of virgin 
carbon.

Using the methodologies established in the Berkeley study, 
carbon reactivation from Evoqua fiscal year 2015 through 
2018 has resulted in the elimination of over 514,000 tons of 
carbon dioxide emissions, as well as 870 tons of Nitrogen 
Dioxide, 2206 tons of Sulfur Dioxide, 48 tons of Particulate 
Matter and 78 tons of hazardous air pollutants.

514,000

TONS OF 
CARBON DIOXIDE 
EMISSIONS

2,206 

TONS OF SULFER
DIOXIDE 
EMISSIONS

870 

TONS OF 
NITROGEN DIOXIDE 
EMISSIONS

78 

TONS OF
HAZARDOUS 
AIR POLLUTANTS

48

TONS OF 
PARTICULATE 
MATTER

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

19

ACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH 
WASTE-TO-ENERGY SOLUTIONS 

Biogas, a byproduct of the anaerobic 
digestion process, is rich in valuable 
methane, a high-energy fuel with incredible 
money-saving potential. With rising energy 
costs and growing concerns about climate 
change, biogas is an economically attractive 
green energy source. It can be used to 
replace conventional energy sources such 
as natural gas and electricity, while also 
reducing a plant’s carbon footprint. Pipeline 
quality biogas can even be used as a vehicle 
fuel. 

Evoqua supplies complete biogas handling, 
treatment, and utilization systems for 
the recovery of this renewable energy 
from wastewater and organic waste. We 
engineer our systems to ensure maximum 
biogas utilization with minimum capital and 
operating costs.

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

ACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH 
RESOURCES RECOVERY

On February 15-16, Orange County Water District 
(OCWD) and Orange County Sanitation District 
put our membranes to the test as they set a new 
GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS® Title for the 
most wastewater recycled to drinking water in 24 
hours. The title was achieved by the Groundwater 
Replenishment System (GWRS), which is the 
world’s largest water purification facility of its kind.

Evoqua’s membranes are just one of the important 
pieces of equipment in the wastewater treatment 
train used in the GWRS at OCWD; a system that 
has set the standard for indirect potable reuse. 
Not only are we excited to support OCWD  to 
achieve this challenge, we’ve been a proud 
supplier of membranes to OCWD for 15 years. Our 
long-standing relationship, in the realm of water 
recycling, is a testament to Evoqua’s commitment 
to innovation and being recognized as a leader in 
membrane technology.  

Today, approximately 125 million 
gallons of water are flowing through 
Evoqua membranes every day, 
enabling a reliable supply of water to 
more than 2.4 million people.  

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

21

ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP

SUSTAINABILITY IS A COLLABORATIVE EFFORT 

Evoqua services over 200,000 
installations across the globe and 
services 90% of the Fortune 500 
companies.  For this reason, we 
understand the profound impact we 
have in providing solutions that ensure 
our customers and partners meet or 
exceed their sustainability goals. It is 
our promise and our responsibility.

CINTAS CORPORATION SAVES UP TO 599M GALLONS OF 
WATER PER YEAR 

Cintas saves up to 599* million gallons of water per year through its 
company-wide system. Of note, Cintas Industrial Laundry is capable 
of delivering significant improvements in water use compared to home 
laundry by providing approximately 20 percent water savings – in addition 
to significant energy and soap savings. Cintas has also demonstrated 
leadership in sustainability by taking steps to lower water use and minimize 
environmental impact at several facilities through enhanced wastewater 
treatment, as well as enhanced water reuse efforts. 

For example, at its recently upgraded Newmarket, Ontario facility, Cintas 
has saved more than two million gallons of water in the first three months 
of operation through a new reuse system. Other Cintas facilities are taking 
significant steps to lessen water impact across operations utilizing water 
reuse with dissolved air flotation systems and, in some cases, reuse coupled 
with ultrafiltration and microfiltration systems.    

*calculations supplied by Cintas Corporation 

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

22

CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS 

ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

Evoqua is committed to doing business the right way. 
We’re continuously striving to earn and maintain the 
trust of our customers and the communities where we 
work and live. 

We meet that commitment through our ethics and 
compliance program. The program identifies key risks 
in our organization, develops standards and processes 
to address risk, and then brings those standards and 
processes to life in our daily work.

Our ethics and compliance platform weaves the 
basic elements of an effective program through each 
initiative. We recognize an effective compliance 
program identifies and prevents misconduct, 
encourages employees to report potential problems, 
and develops procedures that allow the prompt, 
thorough investigation of alleged misconduct.

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

1224

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS 

The Evoqua Ethics and Compliance Program 
addresses the following elements:

STANDARDS OF CONDUCT 

Our best in class Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct firmly establishes our commitment to 
“Do what is right.”

Compliance programs include customized 
training issued organization wide.  
Communication plans are tailored to 
applicable audiences and employees where 
English is a second language are given due 
consideration through translated policies, 
forms, and training.

GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT

An ethics and compliance program is established 
each fiscal year. The organization’s ethics and 
compliance function reports up through the 
Company’s Legal Department and has the 
support of Internal Audit. The function provides 
regular reporting to executive management on 
key compliance programs.

MONITORING AND AUDITING 

Implemented compliance programs include 
key preventative and detective controls.  
Ethics and Compliance partners with Internal 
Audit (IA), as well as external experts to 
perform compliance reviews.

TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION

REPORTING AND INVESTIGATING 

The organization encourages employees who 
become aware of a violation or a potential 
violation to report the issue through a variety 
of means: Management, Human Resources, or 
the organization’s Compliance Helpline. 
Employees can also submit questions or 
concerns to the Compliance Helpline either 
via phone or the web. The Helpline is staffed 
by a third-party and is available 24/7/365. 
Reports to the Helpline can be made 
anonymously. Evoqua pledges to investigate 
and react to every report.

RESPONSE, PREVENTION, ENFORCEMENT,  
AND DISCIPLINE 

Evoqua’s Ethics and Compliance programs 
are designed to respond appropriately to 
misconduct and to prevent further similar 
misconduct, including making any necessary 
modifications to the current program and 
taking corrective action.

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

25

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS 

TAKING A STAND AGAINST BRIBERY 
AND CORRUPTION  

We are committed to 
maintaining a best in class 
Anti-Corruption Program. We 
strive to make continuous 
improvements to our program 
to ensure we have effective 
preventative and detective 
controls in place to address 
misconduct.

Evoqua’s Anti-Corruption program is focused on 
preventing incidents and detecting risk through the 
following activities:

•  An Anti-Corruption Policy for both employees and 

indirect sales channels

•  A continuously improved indirect sales channel 

due diligence program, which includes third- party 
training and Code of Conduct sign-off

•  Customized Anti-Corruption training provided to 

the global organization

•  Thorough gifts and entertainment reporting, 

tracking, and monitoring

•  An Employee Concern policy that reiterates the 
Company’s commitment against retaliation (e.g. 
“whistle-blower” protections)

•  A best in class Code of Ethics and Business 

Conduct with enhanced bribery, corruption, and 
anti-retaliation policies 

Policies and forms were translated for our global 
workforce.

The Company strictly prohibits bribery in any form 
and at any amount or value. The organization 
fully supports any employee, officer, director, or 
third party acting on the Company’s behalf who 
declines an opportunity or advantage in a business 
transaction if engaging or participating in the 
transaction would place the Company at legal or 
reputation risk.

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

26

SOCIAL 
FACTORS

SOCIAL FACTORS

HUMAN RIGHTS ASSURANCE

At Evoqua, we treat each other with respect and 
courtesy. Consistent with our corporate principles 
and with the employment laws of the countries in 
which we work, we do not tolerate discrimination, 
intimidation, harassment, bullying, retaliation, or 
indecent conduct of any kind. These principles 
apply to both internal cooperation and conduct 
towards external partners.

EMPLOYEES, PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS OF 
EVOQUA DECLARE

Respect for basic human rights: 

•  To promote equal opportunities for and 

treatment of employees irrespective of race, 
color, religion (creed), sex, national origin, age, 
disability, genetic information, gender identity 
or expression, sexual orientation or veteran 
status

•  To respect the personal dignity and rights of 
each person allowing for a safe, comfortable, 
and professional work environment

•  To refuse to employ or make anyone work 

against his or her will 

•  To refuse to tolerate unacceptable treatment 
of a person that unreasonably interferes with 
operational objectives 

•  To prohibit behavior including gestures, language, 
and physical contact, that is sexual, coercive, 
threatening, abusive, or exploitative 

•  To provide fair remuneration and to guarantee the 
applicable national statutory minimum wage

•  To comply with the maximum number of working 

hours according to applicable law

•  To recognize the right of free association of 

employees and to neither favor nor discriminate 
against members of employee organizations or 
trade unions

Prohibition of child labor:

•  To not employ child or forced labor in any of our 

global facilities as defined by International Labour 
Organization (ILO) Convention 138

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

28

SOCIAL FACTORS

SUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

Evoqua expects its suppliers to share our 
values. Furthermore, we require suppliers to 
act in accordance with the following principles 
concerning responsibilities to its stakeholders and 
the environment:

•  Comply with all applicable laws

• 

• 

Prohibit corruption

Respect basic human rights of employees

•  Comply with laws prohibiting child labor

SUPPLIER SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE 

As part of our supplier qualification process, selected 
suppliers are required to complete a self-assessment 
questionnaire. The selection criteria for when a supplier 
is to complete the self-assessment is based on several 
factors such as:

•  Take responsibility for the health and safety of 

•  The part is an Evoqua designed part

employees

•  Act in accordance with applicable statutory 
and international standards regarding 
environmental protection

• 

Further promote this Supplier Code of 
Conduct to their own suppliers

The Supplier Code of Conduct is required for all 
new suppliers to sign and return to Evoqua.

•  The supplier is in a high-risk country as defined by 

TI/CPI* guidelines

•  The purchased part is within a critical commodity 

(such as castings, fabrications), the part is 
produced using a critical process (such as welding, 
galvanizing)

•  The part is a critical component of the end product 

(as defined by Engineering)

*The high-risk designation is based on the Corruption Perceptions 
Index (CPI) score which is published annually by Transparency 
International

SOCIAL FACTORS

SUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

SUPPLY CHAIN RISK ASSESSMENT

Evoqua employs an established Supply Chain Risk 
Assessment process to identify supplier spend in 
high-risk countries. The Risk Assessment process 
utilizes Evoqua supplier spend and location data 
from the current year and correlates the data 
against country risk rankings from Transparency 
International and the World Bank.

•  Control of Corruption: the extent to which public 
power is exercised for private gain, including 
both petty and grand forms of corruption, as well 
as “capture” of the state by elites and private 
interests*

The results of the first assessment will inform the 
creation of additional supply chain controls to 
complement the existing supplier due diligence 
process. This newly established Risk Assessment 
process supplements our existing programs for 
Modern Slavery Act and California Transparency in 
Supply Chains Act compliance. The Risk Assessment 
process also provides senior leadership with greater 
insight into the organization’s supply chain.

Risk factors included are: 

•  Voice and Accountability: the extent to which 

a country’s citizens are able to participate in 
government selection, freedom of expression, 
freedom of association, and free media*

• 

Political Stability and Absence of Violence: 
the likelihood of political instability and/ 
or politically-motivated violence, including 
terrorism*

•  Government Effectiveness: the quality of public 
services, civil service, policy formulation and 
implementation*

• 

• 

Regulatory Quality: the ability of the government 
to formulate and implement sound policies and 
regulations that permit and promote private 
sector development*

Rule of Law: the extent to which agents 
have confidence in and abide by the rules of 
society, and in particular the quality of contract 
enforcement, property rights, the police, and 
the courts, as well as the likelihood of crime and 
violence*

* World Bank Governance Indicators

*World Bank Governance Indicators

EVOQUA WATER TECHNOLOGIES   2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  

30

 
 
SUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT

In order to assure that we engage only suppliers who follow 
fundamentally compliant and ethical business practices, 
and who share our commitment to these principles, we 
have implemented a two-phased process in our Supply 
Chain Protocol. This includes an initial assessment that 
each Supplier must complete and submit (our Supplier 
Questionnaire) which is evaluated to determine if we will 
use their products, followed by a second assurance phase 
(our Compliance Requirement Auditing processes) which 
involves conducting actual on site audits at the Supplier’s 
facilities to evaluate how well Supplier Questionnaire 
responses align with their actual practices and operations. 
Suppliers must undergo an audit on a periodic basis of at 
least once every 3 years (or more frequently if an Evoqua 
employee suspects or discovers a violation of our Supplier 
Code of Conduct).

*Supplier provided Code of Conduct included the same information as 
Evoqua Supplier Code of Conduct.

SUPPLY CHAIN PROTOCOL

CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP

Evoqua continues our commitment to developing 
internal processes that align with both the California 
Transparency in Supply Chain Act and the SEC’s 
requirements on Conflict Minerals to mitigate the risk 
of slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain.

In 2010, Congress enacted the Conflict Minerals 
provisions (“Section 1502”) of the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. 
Section 1502 requires public companies to disclose 
annually to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(“SEC”) their due diligence design and process 
utilized to determine whether certain minerals used 
in applicable products originated from conflict mines 
located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
(“DRC”) or other adjoining countries. 

The minerals identified as contributing to human rights 
abuses in the DRC and adjoining countries by funding 
armed groups are gold, columbite- tantalite (coltan), 
cassiterite and wolframite, and their derivatives (i.e. 
tantalum, tin and tungsten. 

Evoqua relies on information obtained downstream 
from key suppliers to provide conflict mineral informa-
tion to customers.

We require suppliers to contractually commit to our 
“Code of Conduct for Evoqua Suppliers”, and we expect 
that these standards will be promoted down the supply 
chain to any lower- tier contractors or suppliers.

Evoqua requires that suppliers respond in a timely 
and accurate manor to surveys and other related 
requests regarding conflict mineral usage for 
products and services necessary to the functionality 
or production of the product. Full transparency and 
thorough supply chain due diligence is required to 
identify mineral smelters (when applicable) as part of 
doing business with our Company.

Suppliers are encouraged to utilize certified conflict 
free smelters (CFS) and refiners for the production of 
Evoqua products and services.

In addition, suppliers must certify that they are in 
compliance with the laws in the countries in which 
they operate. Suppliers who are in violation of our 
Supplier Code of Conduct and local law are subject to 
corrective action plans or termination.

Transforming Water. 
Enriching Life. 

CONTACT US

210 Sixth Avenue  
Suite 3300 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
+1-724-772-0044

Media Relations: communications@evoqua.com
Investor Relations: ir@evoqua.com
evoqua.com

© 2018 Evoqua Water Technologies, LLC
Subject to change without notice
TMP2018

