Environmental 
Responsibility Report

2017 Progress Report, Covering Fiscal Year 2016

We are now protecting and creating enough sustainably managed forests in China and the United States to cover all of Apple’s product packaging needs.Page 3 

Environmental Responsibility at Apple

Page 5 

Climate Change

Page 16 

Resources

Page 28 

Safer Materials 

Page 32 

Better Together

Page 36 

Page 41 

Page 47 

Appendix A 
Apple’s Operations: Environmental Data
• Facilities Environmental Key Performance Indicators
• Scopes 1 and 2 Building Carbon Emissions
• FY2016 Natural Gas and Electricity Use

Appendix B
Data Center Energy Supplement

Appendix C 
Assurance and Review Statements
•  Corporate energy, carbon, waste and water data
•  Product life cycle carbon footprint
•  Fiber footprint

Page 57 

Appendix D 
Environmental Health and Safety Policy Statement 

2

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Responsibility at Apple

To ask less of the planet,  
we’re asking more of ourselves.

Our work is led by Lisa Jackson, 
Apple’s Vice President of Environment, 
Policy and Social Initiatives, reporting 
directly to CEO Tim Cook. The Office of 
Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives 
works with teams across Apple to set 
strategy, engage stakeholders, and 
communicate progress. Our integrated 
approach means that decisions about 
Apple values, including environment, are 
reviewed and supported at the highest 
levels of the company. 

Can we power a global business with the sun, wind, and water?

Can we get 100 percent of our supply chain to move to 100 percent 
renewable energy?

Can we one day stop mining the earth altogether?

Can we use only 100 percent recycled and responsibly sourced  
paper in our packaging?

Can we improve on the world’s best materials?

That’s Apple: asking bold questions, tackling big problems, and relentlessly 
innovating to solve them. The approach also lies at the heart of our global 
environmental strategy—driving us to make not just the best products in 
the world, but the best products for the world.

Apple’s 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 
2016, is our tenth annual update. It highlights the ambitions we have set 
for ourselves and our progress toward meeting them. We remain focused 
on three priorities through which we—and our stakeholders—believe 
Apple can make the biggest difference: 

•  Reduce our impact on climate change by using renewable energy  

sources and driving energy efficiency in our products and facilities. 

•  Conserve precious resources so we all can thrive. 

•  Pioneer the use of safer materials in our products and processes.

We still have a long way to go and a lot to learn. But we’re making 
tremendous progress.

In 2016, 96 percent of the electricity used at our global facilities came  
from renewable energy, reducing our carbon emissions by nearly 585,000 
metric tons. We’re 100 percent renewable in 24 countries—and all of 
Apple’s data centers. 

3

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Our new corporate campus, Apple Park, is on track to be the largest LEED 
Platinum–certified building in North America. Over 80 percent of the new 
campus is open space with more than 9000 drought-tolerant trees. And,  
of course, it’s powered by 100 percent renewable energy.

We’re pushing our manufacturing partners to join us in the fight against 
climate change. Seven major suppliers have now pledged to power their 
Apple production entirely with renewable energy by the end of next year. 
And we’re making strides toward our commitment to bring 4 gigawatts of 
renewable power online by 2020, a key step in reducing our manufacturing 
footprint. We launched our supplier clean energy program in October 2015.  
But between our own clean energy projects to target emissions from upstream  
suppliers and those our direct suppliers have embarked on, we already 
have commitments for 2 gigawatts of clean energy in our supply chain.

To preserve precious resources, over 99 percent of the paper in our 
product packaging is from recycled or responsibly managed sources.  
And, in only two years, through partnerships with the Conservation  
Fund and World Wildlife Fund, we have achieved our goal of protecting  
or creating enough sustainably managed working forests to cover all of  
our product packaging needs.

That’s just a start. We’re going deeper to pioneer a closed-loop supply 
chain, where products are made using only renewable resources or 
recycled material to reduce the need to mine materials from the earth. 
That means continuing to invest in ways to recover materials from our 
products—like Liam, our line of disassembly robots—and encouraging 
our customers to return products through Apple Renew, our recycling 
program. And we’re launching projects and experiments that help us learn 
how to close loops. For example, we’ve melted down iPhone 6 aluminum 
enclosures recovered from Liam to make Mac mini computers for use in  
our factories, and we’re transitioning to 100 percent recycled tin solder  
on the main logic board of iPhone 6s.

We’re also continuing our quest to make our products and processes  
even safer by pioneering ways to reduce and remove toxins. We again 
expanded our Environmental Testing Lab, where our chemists and 
toxicologists look for any potentially harmful substances in our products. 
And, through our Full Material Disclosure program, we’ve identified all the 
substances present in more than 20,000 individual components—up from 
10,000 a year ago—so we can understand their effect on people’s health 
and the environment.

It’s clear to us that now, more than ever, we can show the way to a better 
future. We’re constantly working to show what’s possible and inspire others 
to create a healthier environment.

We’re devoted to improvement and openness, and we encourage you to 
join us in working to leave the world better than we found it.

4

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Climate Change

How can we lead the fight against  
climate change?

137.2

126.7

124.1

122.1

114.1

97

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Carbon emissions per product (kg) 

We’ve decreased carbon emissions per  
product every  year since 2011.

96%

Of the electricity that powers our 
global facilities, 96 percent comes 
from renewable sources.

We mapped our carbon footprint,  
and we’re working to eliminate it.

When we measure our carbon footprint, we include hundreds of 
suppliers, millions of customers, and hundreds of millions of devices. 
And we’re always looking for ways to make the biggest difference in 
five major areas: manufacturing, product use, facilities, transportation, 
and recycling. 

To reduce our carbon footprint, we design each generation of our 
products to be as energy efficient as possible. We’re sourcing lower-
carbon materials to make our devices, we’re partnering with suppliers  
to add clean energy to their facilities, and we produce and procure  
clean, renewable energy for 96 percent of the electricity used at our 
global facilities.

In 2016, our comprehensive carbon footprint was 29.5 million metric 
tons, compared with 38.4 million the year before. A variety of factors 
contributed to the 23 percent decline, including benefits of our 
environmental programs (such as reduced emissions from aluminum 
manufacturing and installing clean energy in our supply chain), a  
year-over-year decline in the total number of products sold, and changes 
to our carbon footprint calculations. Every year we refine our product 
life cycle analysis, moving from industry-average data to more Apple-
specific data whenever possible, and in 2016 we developed more detailed 
information about the carbon intensity of the integrated circuits we use. 
Without the methodology changes, our carbon footprint would have 

declined by 10 percent.

5

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Click here for more information on how 
we calculate our carbon footprint using 
life cycle analysis.

Our comprehensive 2016 carbon footprint. 

29,500,000

metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions

77%

Manufacturing

17%

Product Usage

4%

Product
Transportation

1%

Corporate
Facilities

1%

Recycling

Top contributors to our  
manufacturing carbon footprint

Manufacturing a smaller footprint. 

Manufacturing 

35% 
29% 
13%  
5% 
4%  

Integrated Circuits 
Aluminum 
Boards and Flexes¹ 
Display 
Glass

Manufacturing makes up 77 percent of our carbon footprint. Most of  
it is due to carbon emissions from the electricity used to make our  
products—over 60 percent of our manufacturing emissions. So we’re 
sourcing lower-carbon materials, partnering with our suppliers around 
the world to reduce their current energy use, and helping them switch 
to renewable energy. We believe that together we can transform the 
manufacturing process to dramatically reduce emissions.

We’re helping our suppliers switch to renewable energy.
Since the electricity used to process raw materials, make parts, and 
assemble our products is the largest contributor to our overall carbon 
footprint, we’re helping our suppliers reduce the amount of energy  
they use.

In 2015, we started engaging directly with suppliers to find ways to 
reduce their energy use, such as replacing outdated or inefficient  
heating, cooling, and lighting systems; repairing compressed air leaks; 
and recovering waste heat. We aim to promote continual improvement, 
build technical capabilities, and increase awareness of the environmental 
and financial benefits of energy efficiency.

By the end of 2016, we conducted 34 energy audits at supplier facilities. 
These audits identified over $55 million in annual savings opportunities, 
with an average payback period of about 1.4 years. In 2016, the energy 
efficiency improvements made by suppliers avoided more than 150,000 
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO₂e).²

In 2016, we implemented an energy training program and conducted 
training for 19 supplier sites. Trainees from these supplier sites applied 
their skills and identified and implemented additional energy efficiency 
projects. We are continuing to expand the program for even greater 
impact, focusing on creating systems to educate and reach a broader 
supplier base.

6

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Our 4 gigawatts of renewable energy 
projects by 2020 will produce clean 
power equivalent to taking more than 
1.5 million cars off the road every year 
for over 20 years.³

Partners committed to  
100 percent renewable energy  
for Apple production by 2018

• Biel Crystal Manufactory Ltd.

• Catcher Technology

• Compal Electronics

• Ibiden

• Lens Technology

• Solvay Specialty Polymers

• Sunwoda Electronics

An increasing number of suppliers  
have committed to using only renewable 
energy to produce Apple parts and 
products.

Download Supplier Update  ↓⃝

Our efforts go beyond energy efficiency to spur the development and 
procurement of renewable energy within our global supply chain. We’re 
investing in renewable energy projects to address upstream emissions that 
are beyond the influence of our direct suppliers. To date, Apple has installed 
485 megawatts of wind and solar projects across six provinces of China. 
Using these projects as a model, our direct suppliers are developing their 
own renewable energy projects, many of which are already under way.  
It’s all part of the clean energy program we launched in 2015.

As part of our clean energy program, Apple and our suppliers will generate 
and procure more than 4 gigawatts of new clean power worldwide by 
2020, including 2 gigawatts in China alone, and use it to reduce emissions 
associated with manufacturing. Already, commitments made as of April 
2017 represent a total of 2 gigawatts. Once completed, the 4 gigawatts of 
clean power will represent 30 percent of our current manufacturing carbon 
footprint. Because it can be difficult for suppliers to access clean energy, 
we also launched the Clean Energy Portal. It offers regional guidance and 
tools for procuring clean energy and is available in the languages spoken 
where the majority of our manufacturing takes place—including Mandarin, 
Japanese, and Korean.

Progress toward 4 gigawatts

Operational
Committed
Goal

0

1

2

3

4

To date, seven suppliers have committed to 100 percent clean energy for Apple  
production. In addition, Apple has installed 485 megawatts of wind and solar  
projects across six provinces of China to address upstream emissions and serve  
as a model for suppliers.

Apple is constantly evaluating the global energy policy landscape to  
best support suppliers and regulations that promote energy efficiency 
and renewable energy. Renewable technologies are rapidly developing, 
the economics of renewable energy are evolving, and energy and carbon 
policies are in flux. We engage with governments in our key manufacturing 
markets, ensure that our program is aligned with their priorities, and 
encourage policies that scale renewable energy capacity and enable utility 
customers to choose their energy source. While some of our suppliers 
have deep expertise in energy and climate change, many do not. Through 
the Clean Energy Portal, Apple is now able to share our global insights and 
updates on renewable energy with hundreds of manufacturers around the 
world. We’re giving manufacturers better technical, economic, and policy 
data to accelerate their transition to clean energy.

7

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our direct partners are already making a big difference. Ibiden, which 
produces integrated circuit packaging substrates, has committed to 
generating renewable energy equivalent to the energy used to make Apple 
products by the end of 2018. Ibiden will be our first supplier in Japan to make 
the switch. Its floatovoltaic project will be one of the largest floating solar 
projects in the country. Biel Crystal Manufactory Ltd. is another great example 
of leadership—it has already contracted 50 percent of its Apple energy load 
to come from wind and solar and will increase this to 100 percent in 2018. 
Other partners across our supply chain are installing or investing in sizable 
solar projects, running their factories on wind power, and purchasing clean 
energy from reputable utility programs. 

The transition to renewable energy can be highly technical. It often requires 
complicated deal structures across many regions with their own regulatory 
requirements. Apple is experienced in sourcing and building renewable 
energy—quickly and at a high standard across the globe—so we are 
working alongside our suppliers to overcome many of these challenges. 
For example, in China direct power purchases for renewable energy 
are rare. Our teams sought guidance from the national government and 
stakeholders, made introductions between our suppliers and reputable 
renewable energy developers, and coordinated discussions with local 
government. Our suppliers have now entered into cost-effective renewable 
energy power purchase agreements in a number of provinces—among the 
first of their kind in China, paving the way for others to follow.

Ibiden’s floating solar project in  
Japan will help it reach its 100 percent  
renewable energy goal for Apple by 
the end of 2018.

8

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Previous generation

13-inch MacBook Pro

Greenhouse gas emissions associated 
with the aluminum enclosure of the 
13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar 
are 48 percent less than the previous 
generation.

Lowering carbon emissions by focusing on aluminum.
We sell millions of phones. So making even small adjustments to the 
production of iPhone can have a powerful impact on our carbon footprint. 
For instance, we changed how we make the aluminum enclosure because 
the emissions associated with aluminum manufacturing across all Apple 
products represented close to 30 percent of our manufacturing carbon 
footprint. We prioritized aluminum that was smelted using hydroelectricity 
rather than fossil fuels. And we reengineered our manufacturing process to 
reincorporate the scrap aluminum. As a result, the iPhone 7 enclosure uses 
27 percent less virgin aluminum than iPhone 6, and emits 60 percent less 
greenhouse gas emissions. Applying the same approach to the 13-inch 
MacBook Pro with Touch Bar resulted in 48 percent less greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with the aluminum enclosure compared with that of 
the previous-generation MacBook Pro. 

Our goal is to power our facilities world-
wide with 100 percent renewable energy.

In 2016, 96 percent of the electricity we used at our corporate facilities 
came from clean, renewable sources. That number now factors in the 
footprints of not only our offices, retail stores, and the data centers we run 
ourselves but also our product distribution centers and leased, colocated 
data centers. These efforts have lowered emissions from our facilities to 
1 percent of our comprehensive carbon footprint. But our goal is to make 
them entirely renewable. We’ve already reached that goal in every single 
Apple-operated data center and across all our facilities in 24 countries—
including the United States, the United Kingdom, China, and Australia.

Apple’s renewable energy use

Apple (worldwide)

Apple (U.S.)

100%

75%

50%

25%

0%

’10     ’11      ’12      ’13     ‘14      ’15     ’16

In just six years, Apple’s use of renewable energy to power its corporate facilities, 
retail stores, and data centers worldwide went from 16 percent in 2010 to 96 percent 
in 2016.

9

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY201695 percent of the material from  
the demolished buildings at the site  
was recycled or reused in the new 
Apple campus.

Apple Park is populated by over 9000 
trees, including more than 7000 newly 
planted shade and fruit trees.

We’re building the greenest corporate headquarters  
on the planet.
Apple Park in Cupertino is on track to be the largest LEED Platinum–certified  
office building in North America—and that includes facilities dedicated to 
energy-intensive research and development. It’s powered by 100 percent 
renewable energy, 75 percent of which is generated onsite by a 17-megawatt 
rooftop solar installation and 4 megawatts of baseload biogas fuel cells. Any 
additional energy required is drawn from the California Flats Solar Project  
in nearby Monterey County. When the building has less use—on weekends, 
for example—it will actually generate renewable energy that’s delivered to 
Pacific Gas and Electric for use in the public grid. Over 80 percent of the  
new campus is open space with more than 9000 drought-tolerant trees. 
Most of them are oak, and many are shade and fruit trees. We also reclaimed 
old-growth oak trees from California landscapes where they would otherwise 
have been destroyed. To conserve water, the new campus uses 75 percent 
recycled nonpotable water to care for its dense forest and to run other onsite 
facilities where fresh water isn’t required.

In 2016, Apple opened a new 38-acre campus in Austin, Texas, housing 
more than 5300 employees. The project is expected to be certified to 
the Gold level of the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED rating system. 
The development’s environmental design features include LED lighting, 
high-efficiency water fixtures, stormwater detention ponds and wetland 
treatment, and native drought-tolerant plants, which will be irrigated using 
a 600,000-gallon rainwater cistern. Together, the environmental design 
features are expected to save over 6,692,000 kilowatt-hours, 26,700 therms 
of energy, and 4,336,200 gallons of water each year, compared to local 
building code requirements. During construction, 94 percent of building 
demolition waste was either reused or recycled. In addition, the Austin 
campus contains a 1.4-megawatt distributed rooftop solar installation, which 
is anticipated to generate up to 1,959,900 kilowatt-hours of renewable 
energy each year. Any additional electricity needs will be covered by the local 
utility’s 100 percent renewable green energy program. The campus’s central 
plant also makes use of thermal ice storage, making ice at night to be used 
for daytime cooling, reducing the draw on the power grid during peak times.

10

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016We worked with Sunseap to source  
100 percent clean energy in Singapore 
from a first-of-its-kind project: roughly 
32 megawatts of solar panels on more 
than 800 rooftops in the city. 

Apple’s renewable energy projects (megawatts)  

Apple has installed 315 megawatts of Apple-owned renewable energy projects and 
projects with long-term agreements. An additional 618 megawatts of renewable energy 
projects are in construction. This does not include Apple-owned projects supporting 
the supplier clean energy program, such as the 485 megawatts of solar and wind  
projects in China.

Producing renewable energy to meet our own needs.
Burning coal, oil, or natural gas to produce electricity releases carbon 
dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. So we’ve 
committed to power all our corporate offices, retail stores, and data 
centers worldwide using only renewable energy. We’re producing a lot of 
it ourselves, developing our own solar, fuel cell, water, and wind projects. 
For example, we connected 40 megawatts of new solar energy to China’s 
national grid, producing more than enough electricity for all our corporate 
offices and retail stores in China. Since 2011, these projects have reduced 
the emissions from our offices, data centers, and retail stores worldwide by 
60 percent and prevented more than 1.6 million metric tons of CO₂e from 
entering the atmosphere. In 2016 alone, they reduced CO₂e emissions by 
nearly 585,000 metric tons. Without renewable energy, these emissions 
would have more than tripled since 2011. We’ve also issued a $1.5 billion 
green bond, which is dedicated to financing environmental projects, 
including renewable energy initiatives at our facilities around the world.

Apple scopes 1 and 2 building emissions 

Worldwide corporate, data centers, and Apple Stores

t
n
e

l

a
v

i

u
q
e

2
O
C
s
n
o
t

c

i
r
t
e
m

700,000

600,000

500,000

400,000

300,000

200,000

100,000

0

Default grid emissions 
Total emissions if Apple  
had no renewable program

Apple emissions 
Emissions after accounting 
for Apple’s renewable  
energy program

FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016

In February 2017, we issued our  
first Green Bond report, covering 
fiscal year 2016. 

Download now  ↓⃝

Since 2011, Apple has reduced emissions from our offices, data centers, and retail 
stores worldwide by 60 percent. Without renewable energy and energy efficiency 
measures, these emissions would have increased over 200 percent since 2011.  
In fiscal year 2016, we added colocation facilities and distribution centers to our  
electricity footprint, contributing to the increase in default emissions. More detailed 
emissions data is provided in Appendix A.

11

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY20160                    250                   500                   750         1000               OperationalIn Construction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our renewable energy strategy

1. Energy efficiency

2. Renewable energy

An important first step in 
managing energy use is to 
ensure our facilities use 
as little as possible. That’s 
why we design them for 
maximum energy efficiency 
and regularly audit our facility 
energy use to identify further 
opportunities for energy 
optimization.

Renewable energy ownership. Where feasible, we produce our own renew-
able energy by building our own renewable energy facilities, including solar 
arrays, wind farms, biogas fuel cells, and micro-hydro generation systems.

Dedicated renewable energy contracts. Where it’s not feasible to build  
our own generation, we sign long-term renewable energy purchase contracts, 
supporting new, local projects that meet our robust renewable energy  
sourcing principles. 

Grid purchased renewable energy and environmental attributes. In cases 
where we aren’t able to create new renewable energy projects ourselves due to 
local constraints, we directly purchase renewable energy from newer projects in 
nearby markets, or through available utility green energy programs. When these 
options are not available, we are willing to procure strong renewable energy 
credits (RECs) tied to recently constructed renewable energy projects, applying 
the same rigor to our grid-purchased renewables as we do to our Apple-created 
renewables. When Apple acquires RECs, we require that they are Green-e Energy 
certified and come from the same power grid—and preferably the same state—
as the Apple facility they support.

Wind

Water

Biogas fuel cell

Geothermal

Solar

Our renewable energy sourcing principles. 
We encounter many legal and regulatory frameworks around the world that limit our renewable energy supply 
options. In each location, we endeavor to choose the strongest approach available to us as defined by these 
guiding principles.

Displacement. We seek to displace more-polluting forms of energy in the same electric grid region as our  
facilities. We accomplish this by taking power directly from Apple-owned installations and by delivering into  
the grid an amount of renewable energy equal to the amount of energy we take from that grid.

Additionality. We strive to create new clean energy that adds to the energy sources already delivering to the  
grid. This generally means participating in renewable energy projects that would not have been built without 
Apple’s involvement. We make sure that the energy we count toward our goals is not counted toward regulatory 
obligations that utilities must meet, such as the Renewable Portfolio Standards adopted by many states.

Accountability. We apply rigor in measuring and tracking our energy supply resources, and use third-party  
registries such as WREGIS and NC-RETS, certification programs such as Green-e Energy, and contractual  
provisions to ensure that all renewable energy supplied to Apple is supplied only to Apple. When no such  
system exists, we work with industry partners and governmental entities to create them.

12

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Transportation emissions

Transportation emissions 
per employee

The cleanest energy is the energy you never use. 
We’ve made energy efficiency a priority across all of our facilities,  
seeing energy savings of 25 percent or more in the buildings assessed. 
We have conducted extensive energy efficiency projects at our corporate 
headquarters in Cupertino, California, and the surrounding Santa Clara 
Valley where we operate more than 180 buildings. We’ve done the same  
at other campuses with high energy use—such as Elk Grove and Austin. 
As buildings age and our working needs change, we’ve undertaken 
aggressive programs to improve the comfort and function of our facilities, 
while ensuring they require less energy.

From efficiency improvements made over the past six years, in fiscal 
year 2016 we saved 55 million kilowatt-hours of energy—equivalent to 
the electricity needed to power 4500 homes for a year. The efficiency 
improvements include upgrading to LED lighting, retro-commissioning 
building controls, and upgrading heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning 
systems. When designing new buildings, we optimize energy through use 
of high-efficiency lighting and heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning  
systems and through careful selection of windows, insulation, shading, 
and roofing materials to reduce heating and air-conditioning loads.

We’re lessening our impact when we commute or hit  
the road. 
Even as we shrink the carbon footprint of Apple’s facilities, we’re 
continuing to look for ways to reduce carbon emissions from business 
fleet vehicles, employees’ commute, and business travel. Those emissions 
grew by 8 percent in fiscal year 2016, primarily because our employee 
count increased by 15 percent in the same period. However, emissions 
from air travel and rental car mileage decreased despite our growth, 
reflecting an emphasis on only business-critical travel. We also offer 
our U.S. employees a transit subsidy of up to $100 per month, and at 
our Cupertino and surrounding Santa Clara Valley campus, we offer free 
coach buses to commute to and from our corporate offices. In fiscal year 
2016, use of these coach buses increased by 4 percent. When Apple Park 
opens, we will add 700 new electric vehicle charging ports, over 1000 new 
campus bicycles, and a dedicated transit center.

13

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016metric tons CO2emetric tons CO2e/employee200,000160,000120,00080,00040,000FY13FY14FY15FY1602.01.51.50.50.0FY13FY14FY15FY16Business Fleet Vehicles (Scope 1)Employees’ Commute (Scope 3)Business Travel (Scope 3)100%

Apple data centers are powered by  
100 percent renewable energy.

Product Usage

We take responsibility for every watt  
of power you use on your device.

The energy it takes to run your device during its expected lifespan is 
added to our carbon footprint. That includes the energy it takes to  
charge your device, which often comes from carbon-intensive sources 
such as coal or natural gas. So we’re always developing new ways to make 
our products as efficient as possible. For example, macOS puts storage 
media to sleep and runs processors in an ultralow power mode when 
you’re not hard at work. And when you are, it uses less energy for apps 
that are open but not visible, and pauses animated website plug-ins until 
you give the OK. It can even idle the processor to its lowest power state 
between keystrokes and while the display is on. These energy savings 
might seem tiny, but when multiplied by every Apple computer in the 
world, they’re huge.

iMessage, FaceTime, and Siri run on 100 percent  
renewable energy. 
Every time you send an iMessage, make a FaceTime call, ask Siri a 
question, download a song, or share a photo, it takes energy. We’re proud 
to say that all those tasks are handled by Apple data servers running on 
100 percent renewable energy. All told, in 2015 our data centers avoided 
187,000 metric tons of CO₂e emissions. And in 2016, that number grew 
to more than 330,000 metric tons. When we need additional capacity, 
we work with third-party data centers. Even though we don’t own these 
colocation facilities, and share them with other companies, we still 
include them in our renewable energy goals. So we’re working with these 
providers to get them to 100 percent renewable energy too. And we’re 
proud that in 2016, more than 99 percent of their electricity came from 
renewable sources.

Each of our data centers has unique design features that reflect the 
climate and other aspects specific to its location. Our data centers are 
built with the environment in mind, often including innovative energy 
efficiency measures. Our data centers in North Carolina, Oregon, and 
Nevada earned LEED Platinum certification from the U.S. Green Building 
Council—the highest level possible. For more information about Apple’s 
industry-leading efforts to green our data centers, see Appendix B.

14

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY201623.2 24.2

21.8

17.7

14.6

11.2

8.8

8.4

7

2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

Product energy use (kWh/yr)

We continue to reduce the average energy 
our products use compared with previous 
generations.

Since 2008, we’ve reduced the average energy consumed 
by Apple products by 70 percent.⁴
MacBook Pro consumes 15 percent less energy than the previous 
MacBook Pro models. iMac consumes 97 percent less energy in sleep 
mode than the first generation. Mac mini consumes 40 percent less 
power when idle than the previous generation. And you can charge your 
iPhone 7 once a day for a year for only 61 cents.⁵ These advancements  
are bringing down our overall carbon footprint and your electricity bill at 
the same time.

A10

iPhone 7 uses the A10 Fusion chip, which 
is the most powerful chip ever in a smart-
phone, and it’s extremely efficient.

97%

iMac consumes 97 percent less energy  
in sleep mode than the first generation.

7x

Mac mini exceeds ENERGY STAR 
requirements by up to seven times.⁶

Product Transportation and Recycling

We’re taking responsibility for shipping 
and recycling.

We include all the energy used for shipping and recycling in our carbon 
footprint. So we make our devices lighter and our packaging smaller to 
consume less fuel when they’re transported by air and sea. Because it’s 
better for the environment, we ship by sea as often as we can. We’re also 
adjusting our recycling practices. When collecting end of life products, 
we maximize the environmental benefits of recycling by weighing the 
availability of local recovery technology with the impacts of shipping 
waste. When we have to ship recycled materials, we do it responsibly. 
And nothing is discarded unsafely. 

15

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resources

In the future, can we make 
products without taking finite 
resources from the earth? 

Apple Renew

Recycle your Apple device at any  
Apple Store or request a prepaid ship-
ping label online and send it to us. 

Learn more >

Finite Resources 

Our goal is a closed-loop supply chain.

Traditional supply chains are linear. Materials are mined, manufactured as 
products, and often end up in landfills after use. Then the process starts 
over and more materials are extracted from the earth for new products. 
We believe our goal should be a closed-loop supply chain, where 
products are built using only renewable resources or recycled material. 
We already have programs in place to ensure the finite materials we use 
in our products are sourced responsibly through strict standards and 
programs on the ground that drive positive change. We’re also challenging 
ourselves to one day end our reliance on mining altogether. To start, we’re 
encouraging more customers to recycle their old devices through Apple 
Renew. And we’re piloting innovative new recycling techniques, like our 
line of disassembly robots, so we can put reclaimed materials to better 
use in new products. It’s an ambitious goal that will require many years 
of collaboration across multiple Apple teams, our suppliers, and specialty 
recyclers—but our work is already under way.

Closing the loop in our supply chain

16

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Learn more about Liam, Apple’s  
experiment in disassembly technology.

Download the white paper  ↓⃝

To prioritize which materials to tackle first, we created Material Risk 
Profiles for 44 elements in our products. The profiles identified global 
environmental, social, and supply risk factors spanning the life of each 
material. We then combined the risk profiles with data that’s more specific 
to Apple, like how much of a material we use, how unique our use is, or 
where we think we can create the most change. The results from our first 
round of analysis reinforced the need to work on aluminum—which we had 
already identified as a priority through our carbon footprint work—and on 
materials like tin and cobalt. 

As we embrace the circular economy and embark on this journey, we’re 
tailoring our approach to the specific properties of each material and how 
we use it. Each project is a bit different.

For aluminum, we found that one of the best sources of recycled material 
was our own products and processes. This is because we specify such  
a high grade of the material—it’s part of what makes our products so 
strong and durable. Today, the only way to keep aluminum at this level  
of quality is to keep a clean material stream—not to mix it with existing 
scrap aluminum, which is what typically happens at recycling facilities.  
Our challenge is to recover the aluminum from our products without 
degrading its quality.

That’s why our investments in new recycling technologies are so 
important. Existing techniques, such as shredding, only recover a few 
kinds of materials and often diminish their quality. So we invented Liam, 
a line of robots that can quickly disassemble iPhone 6, sorting its high-
quality components with the goal of reducing the need to mine more 
resources from the earth. With two Liam lines up and running, we can 
take apart up to 2.4 million phones a year. It’s an experiment in recycling 
technology that’s teaching us a lot, and we hope this kind of thinking will 
inspire others in our industry.

We’ve already begun using the reclaimed aluminum to build new devices. 
We took aluminum enclosures Liam recovered from iPhone 6, melted 
them down, and reused the material to create Mac mini computers that 
we use in our iPhone final assembly facilities. We wanted to show it was 
possible to use our own scrap to build new products. Now we’re looking 
for opportunities to expand this pilot.

For tin, we took a different approach. Unlike aluminum, there is an existing 
market supply of recycled tin that meets our quality standards. So we 
are tapping into that supply for iPhone 6s, and now using 100 percent 
recycled tin for the solder on the main logic board, where the majority of 
tin in the device is found.7

17

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016For every 100,000 iPhone 6 
devices, Liam has the potential 
to recover the following  
materials:

Aluminum (1900 kg) 
Copper (800 kg) 
Gold (0.3 kg) 
Platinum Group Metals (0.4 kg) 
Silver (7 kg) 
Tin (55 kg) 
Rare Earth Elements (24 kg) 
Cobalt (550 kg) 
Tungsten (3.5 kg) 
Tantalum (2.5 kg)

But sourcing isn’t enough—we want to recover as much tin as we’re using 
and make sure it’s put back into the world’s supply. Unfortunately, tin is 
not recovered by all electronics recyclers. So we are working to identify tin 
recyclers and ensure that the material is being consistently recovered and 
recycled from our products. To start, we are sending iPhone 6 main logic 
boards recovered by Liam to a recycler who can reclaim the tin in addition 
to the copper and precious metals. We are now looking for ways to do this 
on a larger scale for tin—and apply what we’ve learned to other materials. 
For example, we’re experimenting with ways to recover cobalt from our 
lithium-ion batteries and use recycled cobalt.

Throughout this process, we’re learning a lot about how to create closed-
loop supply chains. For some materials, sourcing recycled content will be 
sufficient as long as we ensure the same amount is recovered, recycled, 
and put back on the market. Where recycled content isn’t available at 
the desired quality, we can drive improvements in recycling technologies 
and a tighter closed loop—such as using material from old Apple devices 
to build new ones. And when there are materials for which recycling 
technologies don’t yet exist, we’ll need to invest in research and other 
technology solutions.

18

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Liam is a line of robots that  disassembles iPhone 6 into  individual components, making  it easier to recover finite  resources such as aluminum, tungsten, and cobalt.We’re finding new ways to keep old materials out  
of landfills
We’re committed to making sure all the waste created by our supply 
chain is reused, recycled, composted, or, when necessary, converted into 
energy. Reaching this goal requires collaboration among multiple Apple 
teams, local governments, and specialty recyclers, but we’ve already seen 
great success. In 2015, our facility in Cork, Ireland, was the first outside 
North America to receive UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill validation. And most 
recently, 17 of our 18 final assembly sites—including all 14 sites in China—
have received UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill validation, diverting more than 
240,000 metric tons of waste from landfills since January 2015. We’ve 
recently expanded this initiative to 25 more suppliers.

When we first started working with suppliers, we found that facilities  
were already diverting on average 70 percent of the waste generated from 
manufacturing, cafeterias, and employee support facilities. The challenge 
was to address the remaining low- or no-value, mixed-waste materials 
that most recyclers will not accept. We worked closely with our suppliers 
to find innovative ways to reduce, recycle, eliminate, or incinerate this 
waste for energy recovery. For example, at many of our iPhone and Apple 
Watch final assembly facilities, we implemented waste sorting on the line 
to separate recyclable materials. We also implemented a component tray 
reuse program for iPhone, allowing single-use trays to flow through the 
supply chain multiple times. At other sites, suppliers established waste 
reduction campaigns and worked with local recyclers to process materials 
not previously accepted. In response to this program, all iPhone and 
Apple Watch final assembly suppliers now have “zero waste” or “green” 
teams to support this program and other environmental improvements. 
The impact of this program extends far beyond our suppliers’ walls: It has 
strengthened local recycling networks, increased the use of recyclable 
and reusable materials, and inspired other component suppliers who want 
to learn how to follow suit.

At our corporate offices and retail stores, we’re creating robust recycling 
and composting programs to minimize the environmental impact of the 
waste we produce. In fiscal year 2016, we generated approximately 
21.6 million pounds of waste, and diverted over 28.2 million pounds of 
materials from landfill through recycling and 13.7 million pounds through 
composting, due in part to a food scraps recovery program launched in 
2016 for our offices in Sunnyvale, California. Our rate of landfill diversion 
was 66 percent in fiscal year 2016. We continue to work to improve our 
rate of landfill diversion through a variety of actions, including expanding 
composting at our corporate campuses, and pursuing a zero waste effort 
at our nearly 490 retail stores. 

Apple disposes of hazardous waste responsibly. We complete regular 
audits of the Transportation, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF), 
where hazardous waste is ultimately sent to be treated, incinerated, or 
recycled. Only facilities we audit and approve are allowed to accept and 
treat the hazardous waste Apple generates. We take this commitment 
seriously—if the TSDFs do not meet our strict standards for environment, 
health, safety, and waste management protocols, we switch facilities.

19

Landfill diversion rate for  
office waste

100%

90%

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

FY12

FY13

FY14

FY15

FY16

Waste, recycling, and compost data  
is collected or estimated for all Apple  
facilities, including our retail stores.

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Renewable Resources 

When we use renewable resources,  
we make sure to use them responsibly.

The earth’s most precious resources, like water and paper, are renewable 
if they’re managed responsibly. So we do everything we can to conserve 
them. We’re measuring our water footprint and finding ways to reduce or 
reuse water wherever possible. We’re also using paper and plastic more 
efficiently in our packaging, and tackling our zero-waste-to-landfill goals 
at our campuses and retail stores. And we’re committed to protecting and 
creating more sustainable forests than we’re using.

We hold ourselves accountable for every drop of  
water we use.
Water is essential to all life. We need it to drink, to grow our food, and to 
maintain natural ecosystems throughout the planet. And though water is 
a renewable resource, its scarcity makes it precious in many parts of the 
world. So we hold ourselves accountable for the water we use, whether 
at our headquarters in California or in our suppliers’ facilities around the 
globe. We’re constantly seeking ways to conserve water and discharge 
wastewater safely.

At our own offices, data centers, and retail stores across the world, 
we monitor water use within our cooling, landscaping, and sanitation 
processes so we can develop targeted ways to conserve water. In fiscal 
year 2016, Apple used 630 million gallons of water, up 10 percent from  
the previous year. This increase was driven primarily by growth at our  
data centers, both from increased construction and cooling needs. We 
have also transitioned our Mesa, Arizona, facility from a corporate office  
to a data center.

Corporate water use

)
s
n
o

l
l

a
g
f
o
s
n
o

i
l
l
i

m

(
e
s
U
r
e
t
a
W

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

Retail

Data Centers

Corporate

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

We calculate our corporate water use for our data centers, retail stores, and  
corporate offices.

20

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
Using the water risk analyses we began in 2015, we have targeted water 
conservation efforts at some of our highest-priority locations, based on 
water stress and use. These include our offices in Santa Clara Valley and 
Israel, as well as our data centers. In Santa Clara Valley, we continued to 
expand our deployment of high-definition flow sensors and sub-meters in 
our landscaping. This will reduce irrigation water use by up to 30 percent 
compared with fiscal year 2015—saving about 15.3 million gallons per year. 

Once opened, Apple Park will use recycled water from the city of Sunnyvale 
for flushing, cooling and irrigation needs, reducing our freshwater usage by 
over 20 million gallons annually. In Israel, our buildings have installed a smart 
water monitoring and leak detection system to conserve water, a system 
that is now being tested in Santa Clara Valley offices. As a result of these 
conservation efforts, our corporate water use per employee declined by  
2 percent in fiscal year 2016.

We also installed extensive sub-metering at our data centers to pinpoint 
areas of use, detect leakage, and develop better ways to conserve  
water. At our Maiden data center, our newest building uses captured  
rainwater for cooling, cutting our water needs by 50 percent from  
previous designs. Today, recycled water makes up 1 percent of our water 
usage across all facilities, and we continue to look for opportunities to  
reuse and recycle water. For example, we are working with the city of 
Prineville, Oregon, to build a wastewater treatment plant that will supply  
our cooling needs, reducing our reliance on potable water and leaving it 
available for other users. 

21

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016We’re planting more than 9000 drought-resistant trees at our new campus in Cupertino. We selected many tree  varieties that were native to the area  as well as others that could thrive in  a range of climate change scenarios. 8 billion

Since our Clean Water Program began, 
we’ve helped our suppliers save more 
than 8 billion gallons of water—enough 
to provide every person on the planet 
with 18 glasses of water.

The vast majority of our product water footprint is found in manufacturing, 
so in 2013 we established the supplier Clean Water Program to help our 
partners conserve water and prevent water pollution. We put a special 
emphasis on working with suppliers with high water usage and in water 
scarce regions, as well as makers of components that our life cycle water 
assessments have identified as particularly water-intensive. These  
life cycle assessments include water that’s consumed in energy production—
such as for oil extraction, distillation, and processing—as well as non-
energy sources including water consumed during metals processing and 
product recycling. Through employee training, baseline assessments, 
performance evaluations, and technical support, we helped our suppliers 
conserve more than 3 billion gallons of water in 2016 alone, increasing 
average water reuse to 36 percent across 86 sites. And since many of our 
suppliers also build components for other companies, we’re reducing the 
water footprint of non-Apple products too.

We mapped our water use to different 
levels of water risk (as defined by 
WRI’s Aqueduct tool) across the world 
to understand where we should be 
focusing our conservation efforts. Water 
risk takes into consideration indicators 
such as water scarcity, business risk, 
and habitat and livelihood impact to the 
basins in which we operate.

Source: World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct, 
www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct

How we think about water.

The impact of water use varies significantly depending on the watershed 
conditions where the water is being used. So we’ve continued to look 
at more sophisticated ways to measure and analyze our water use. The 
way we manage water is different based on the climate and nature of our 
operations across our facilities, whether it’s our data centers, corporate 
offices, manufacturing sites, or retail stores. We map our global water 
use against scarcity indicators. This analysis helps us prioritize our 
conservation efforts across our operations.

Corporate water use by level of risk (FY2016)

Millions of gallons

250

200

150

100

50

0

Data Centers

Corporate Offices

Retail Stores

Low

Low-Medium

Medium-High

High

22

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016All our suppliers must adhere to 
Our sustainable fiber specification.

Download now  ↓⃝

We’re not just protecting forests. We’re protecting future  
generations of them.
Forests provide wood fiber for the paper we use in our packaging. They 
also clean our air, purify our water, and shelter wildlife. So we work hard  
to minimize our impact by sourcing paper responsibly and using it as  
efficiently as possible. But that’s not enough. The world’s forests still  
face widespread destruction due to illegal logging, poor management,  
and aggressive land development. That’s why we’re determined to protect  
and create enough sustainably managed forests around the world to  
cover all our packaging needs and produce fiber for generations.⁸

Using paper more efficiently.
We’re constantly looking for ways to make our packaging smaller, creating 
technologies that use paper more efficiently, and using recycled paper 
whenever we can. In fiscal year 2016, we used 131,000 metric tons of 
fiber, of which 62 percent was recycled, 38 percent was virgin fiber from 
responsibly managed sources, and less than 1 percent was virgin fiber 
that did not comply with our sustainable fiber specification. We’re also 
designing our packaging to use fewer plastics, in favor of renewable, 
responsibly sourced fiber. For example, the accessory tray in the iPhone 7 
box is made from a mix of sustainably harvested bamboo fiber and bagasse, 
a waste by-product of sugarcane manufacturing.

Fiscal year 2016 fiber footprint

131,000

metric tons

  62% 

 Recycled fiber 

38% 

<1%

Responsibly sourced fiber 

Other virgin fiber

Our fiscal year 2016 fiber footprint includes all paper used to package and ship  
products, as well as all in-box paper and paper retail bags. This year, we also 
included our corporate paper use, which accounts for about 1 percent of our total 
footprint. We calculate our fiber footprint to reflect fiber losses during the paper 
production process.

Note: Due to rounding, total percentages don’t add up to 100.

23

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
Sourcing virgin paper responsibly.
When we use virgin paper in our packaging, our suppliers must source it 
from sustainably managed forests or controlled wood sources. And we 
conduct regular audits to ensure that they adhere to our specifications. 
In fiscal year 2016, over 99 percent of the paper used in our packaging 
and corporate offices was from either sustainably managed forests or 
controlled wood or recycled sources.

53%

The 21.5-inch iMac product packaging 
consumes 53 percent less volume and 
weighs 35 percent less than packaging 
for the original 15-inch iMac.

84%

U.S. product packaging of iPhone 7  
uses 84 percent less plastic than in the 
previous-generation iPhone packaging 
and contains 60 percent recycled 
content.

100%

For the paper used in packaging 
iPad Pro, 100 percent comes from 
responsibly managed forests or is made 
from post-consumer recycled content.

Protecting sustainable forests.
We continue to protect and create sustainable working forests because 
when properly managed, they can provide abundant resources for a long 
time. In addition to specifying that all of our virgin fiber be sourced from 
responsibly managed forests, we also wanted to make sure we weren’t 
diminishing the world’s supply of responsibly sourced paper. So we 
set a goal to protect or create enough responsibly managed forests to 
cover all of our product packaging needs. In 2017, we met this goal for 
the first time: Yearly production from our forest conservation projects 
is now greater than the amount of virgin fiber used in Apple’s product 
packaging during fiscal year 2016. As our paper demands grow and 
change, we will continue protecting and creating enough responsibly 
managed forests to cover all our packaging needs.

In partnership with The Conservation Fund, we’ve protected 36,000 
acres of sustainable forest in the Eastern United States. In Maine, we’re 
protecting more than 32,400 acres in the Reed Forest, which includes 
wetlands and upland forest habitats that are important for numerous 
wildlife species in Maine’s iconic North Woods. This project adds to more 
than a million acres of conserved lands and interconnected forest habitat 
that stretches into Canada, and provides habitat to rare and threatened 

24

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016100%

We have protected or created enough 
responsibly managed forests to cover the 
49,000 metric tons of virgin paper we 
used in our packaging in fiscal year 2016. 

plants and animals like the elusive Canada lynx. The Reed Forest is 
certified to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable Forestry 
Initiative (SFI) standards. In late 2016, Apple and The Conservation Fund 
donated a conservation easement to the Forest Society of Maine for the 
entire 32,400-acre property. The conservation easement ensures forests 
at Reed won’t be developed or converted to other uses, and promotes 
economically and ecologically sustainable production of fiber and other 
wood products. Apple supported the Fund’s donation of an endowment to 
the Forest Society of Maine, which will help ensure that the easement can 
be monitored and enforced for centuries to come.

In North Carolina, we’re protecting more than 3600 acres of pine and 
hardwood forest in Brunswick County, along the southern coast of North 
Carolina. This property sits adjacent to the 17,000-acre Green Swamp 
Preserve, which helps enable connectivity and halts fragmentation for 
this National Natural Landmark. With high-quality pine savannas, along 
with striking and rare plants and flowers, like the carnivorous Venus fly 
trap, Brunswick has long been a conservation priority for local and state 
partners. The Conservation Fund is working to place a conservation 
easement to make sure the Brunswick forest stays a forest. The Brunswick 
forest is certified to the SFI standard. 

In 2015, we announced a five-year partnership with World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF) to transition up to one million acres of forest, across southern 
provinces of China, into responsible management by 2020. WWF’s work  
has three primary components:

1. Increase responsible management of working forests in China—by 

creating up to 300,000 acres of FSC–certified forests, and up to 700,000 
acres of forests under improved management.

2. Improve China’s policy framework to encourage responsible forest 

management. 

3. Establish long-term market incentives in China for responsibly sourced 

paper. 

In just two years, we’re close to achieving the first goal by transitioning 
approximately 320,000 acres of forest in China—nearly 500 square miles 
and 20,000 acres more than the project goal—toward FSC certification. This  
progress was made through collaboration with two companies in Hunan and  
Guangxi provinces, one of which will be the largest FSC-certified plantation 
area in the Chinese pulp and paper sector. WWF worked with both companies  
to create forest management plans and train their employees to identify 
High Conservation Value Forest—both necessary for FSC certification.

25

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016WWF has also secured commitments from eight forestry companies, 
representing over 450,000 acres, to improve their forest management 
practices. These companies are located in seven provinces of southern 
China⁹ that are at the heart of the commercial timber production 
area in China. Their experiences will not only benefit their own forest 
management, but also inform the development of a Best Practices 
Guideline, which is designed to influence other forest managers 
throughout the country. 

Our ambition is to shift the dynamics of the world’s paper market in both 
the short and long term, and in the process protect some of the world’s 
most important forests.

26

© Theodore Kaye/WWF-China

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016An aerial view of eucalyptus forests in Guangxi Province, China. In partnership with WWF, we have transitioned approxi-mately 320,000 acres of forest in China into sustainable management.To ensure that they can stand up to 
repeated use, the keys on MacBook 
are pressed millions of times.

Product Durability

A durable device is a greener device.

When products can be used longer, fewer resources need to be extracted 
from the earth to make new ones. So we assess all of our products in our 
Reliability Testing Lab, using rigorous testing methods that simulate our 
customers’ real-world experiences with their devices. For example, we 
analyze how devices stand up to extreme heat and cold, exposure to water 
and everyday chemicals, and scratching tests from materials like steel wool 
and denim. In addition to industry-standard measures, we also devise our 
own tests and even build custom testing machinery. We design these tests 
based on our studies of user behavior and by analyzing returned products 
to fully understand any problems.

In the event that something does break, we have programs like AppleCare 
and Apple-certified repair services to help our customers use their 
devices longer. We also release regular free software updates that keep 
our products current and extend their lives as long as possible. And we 
design those software updates to be compatible with older generations 
of products. macOS Sierra, for example, is compatible with Mac models 
dating back to late 2009. And when customers decide to upgrade to new 
devices, the old ones often have new lives with friends or family, or in the 
refurbished market through programs like Apple Renew.

27

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Safer Materials

How do we make sure our products stay  
safe for people and planet?

Learn more about how Apple is  
integrating toxicological assessments 
into our materials selection process. 

Download the white paper  ↓⃝

We run our own environmental  
testing lab. 

To protect people and the planet, we set strict standards on the  
materials used in our devices, often going far beyond what’s required 
by law. We also built the Environmental Testing Lab, where our chemists 
and toxicologists look for any potentially harmful substances rather than 
waiting for a third party to identify them for us. One process we use 
involves laser-based instruments—just like the one used by the Mars 
rover to analyze soil samples—to ensure that our products are free of 
beryllium. The lab also uses tools like inductively coupled plasma mass 
spectrometry, X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, and ion, liquid, or gas 
chromatography. If we find an issue, we work with the supplier to correct 
it. Since creating our Cupertino Environmental Testing Lab in 2006, we’ve 
grown it to over 20 times its original size, and have regularly updated it 
with state-of-the-art equipment. We’ve also been building out testing labs 
at our manufacturing facilities to test and validate products throughout 
the manufacturing process.

Our scientists have cataloged and analyzed more than  
20,000 individual parts.
We started our Full Material Disclosure program to identify all the 
substances we use in all the parts we use. We’ve already looked at more 
than 20,000 individual components out of the 40,000 present in all our 
products, prioritizing materials that come into frequent skin contact and 
those present in greatest quantity, and we get data on more parts every 
day. We assess the different chemicals in those components using  
18 different criteria. This helps us understand their effect on people’s 
health and on the environment.

28

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016We start this process early in the design and manufacturing phases so we 
can take appropriate actions to remove or replace hazardous chemicals. 
In some cases, few replacements are readily available, so we work with 
our suppliers to find substitutions, switch to another supplier that uses 
safer materials, or explore how to eliminate the need for that substance. 

It took us four years to remove polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, from our power 
cords and headphone cables. We tested dozens of formulations until 
we finally found the right blend of durability, safety, and environmental 
performance in the nonchlorinated and nonbrominated thermoplastic 
elastomers that we used as replacements. 

Biocompatibility

To ensure the safety of Apple Watch, 
we make our own sweat.

We carefully test all product materials that come in contact with skin. For 
example, many people are allergic to nickel, which is common in many 
alloys like stainless steel. So we do nickel leach testing on Apple Watch 
and other wearable devices to measure how quickly nickel can transfer 
from metal parts into sweat. We even create artificial sweat to conduct 
such tests. By placing different components in jars of the artificial sweat, 
we can closely monitor samples to ensure that nickel and other allergens 
and irritants stay where they belong. 

And we go far beyond sweat in our testing. We analyze materials that 
someone might put in their mouth—like an Apple Pencil you might chew 
on while considering the next line in your drawing—to make sure they’re 
safe. We also evaluate products after they’ve undergone extensive 
reliability testing to ensure that they remain safe for our customers, even 
after years of use and exposure to different environmental conditions.

29

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016In an incubator that simulates the  temperature of the human body,  Apple Watch bands are placed in  jars of artificial sweat to undergo  analytical testing.All our suppliers have to adhere to our 
Regulated Substances Specification. 

Download now  ↓⃝

100%

At our 18 final assembly facilities,  
100 percent of all process chemicals 
were free of Apple-restricted  
substances.

Setting high standards for the safety of our products.  
And the people who help make them. 
We also work to protect the health and safety of the people who work in 
our supply chain. The standards we set for our suppliers go far beyond 
what’s required by law, like our Regulated Substances Specification 
(RSS) list, which identifies the toxic chemicals we limit or prohibit in our 
manufacturing processes and products. We lead audits that inventory 
chemical purchasing and map chemicals across our supply chain. During 
these audits, we also review our suppliers’ hazard assessments, industrial 
hygiene monitoring, risk controls, hazard communication, worker training, 
medical surveillance records, and chemical spill prevention plans. To date, 
we’ve conducted over 40 hazard assessments for all the chemicals in the 
cleaners and degreasers used in our final assembly sites. We’ve removed 
benzene, n-hexane, toluene, and chlorinated organic compounds from 
all of our final assembly sites, and we continue to work with our suppliers 
to help them better manage chemicals used in manufacturing processes. 
And for suppliers with higher-than-average risks of occupational health 
exposure, we work with them even more closely to assess and improve 
chemical management practices. 

In addition to mapping chemical use annually across all final assembly 
sites, our team of experts works with suppliers to assess their 
manufacturing process and identify substitutions or opportunities 
for reenginering wherever possible. We’ve already assessed 81 
manufacturing sites, including all 18 of our final assembly sites and  
63 subcomponent supplier sites—together employing approximately 
860,000 workers. And we plan to assess 50 more sites in 2017. 

30

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Eliminating Toxins

The worst toxins and what we’ve done 
about them.

After we identify toxins in our products, we reduce them, remove them, 
or develop new materials that are safer. These efforts also remove toxins 
from our manufacturing and recycling processes, which protects workers 
and keeps pollutants out of the land, air, and water.

Beryllium
Eliminated from all new product 
designs. Beryllium is found in copper 
alloys used to make connectors and 
springs.

Mercury
Eliminated in 2009. We use energy-
efficient, mercury-free LEDs and OLEDs 
instead of mercury-based fluorescent 
lamps in all our displays.

Lead
Phased out of display glass and  
solder in 2006.

Arsenic
Eliminated from display glass since 
2008. Arsenic was traditionally used  
in glass.

PVC and Phthalates
Replaced with safer thermoplastic  
elastomers.¹⁰ Both are still used by  
other companies in power cords  
and headphone cables.

Brominated Flame Retardants (BFRs)
Eliminated from thousands of parts  
such as enclosures, cables, circuit 
boards, and connectors in 2008.  
We use safer metal hydroxides and 
phosphorus compounds in their place. 

31

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Better Together

Can we be a ripple in the pond  
to inspire greater change? 

No one company can solve the world’s challenges alone. So we engage 
across sectors, listen to diverse perspectives, and share the latest 
research to identify the solutions.

For 2016, Apple increased our focus on inspiring others, influencing  
public policy, and contributing to improving global outcomes beyond  
the borders of our business interests. We deepened our engagement  
with key organizations, shared our vision and our journey at important 
conferences and events, collaborated with peer organizations, supported 
legislative efforts through advocacy, and found new ways to engage with 
our customers on the importance of protecting our planet.

Joining forces with other organizations.

We’ve increased our memberships and engagement in industry, 
sustainability, and cross-sector organizations. These organizations 
provide the opportunity for us to share our knowledge while learning  
from subject-matter experts in strategic areas. We prioritize associations 
that share our values, passion, and deeply held belief that companies  
can make a difference. 

Great relationships are built over time. So we have renewed our 
commitments to Ceres, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Corporate 
Eco Forum, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD), the GreenBiz Executive Network and the Paulson Institute, 
among others. And we’ve expanded our relationship with Advanced 
Energy Economy (AEE), becoming members of its Leadership Council.

We formed our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board, made up of some of 
the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics. The board 
helps us identify innovative ways to minimize or eliminate toxins from our 
supply chain. We also invite experts from around the world to meet with 
leaders at Apple. Together, we focus on eliminating toxins at each stage  
of our process. 

32

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016In 2016, we joined several influential organizations, including:

•  RE100, an initiative by The Climate Group, created to support companies 

that commit to 100 percent renewable energy. Our membership in 
RE100 will enable us to collaborate with other clean energy leaders 
across various sectors, and provide us the opportunity to share our 
approach to driving clean energy in the manufacturing supply chain.

•   ChemSec, a Swedish-based nonprofit that works with decision-makers, 

industry, NGOs, and scientists to achieve a toxic-free environment. 
As members of its Business Group, we will work with like-minded 
companies across a diversity of sectors to refine our knowledge of  
safer materials.

•  The Aluminum Stewardship Initiative, a global, multi-stakeholder, 

nonprofit organization that sets standards and certifies sustainability 
performance. ASI membership is an important piece of our efforts to 
source aluminum responsibly and advance the transition to cleaner 
sources across the entire industry.

Collaborating for joint success.

This year, we’ve continued to work with cross-sector companies, 
researchers, suppliers, thought leaders, and technical experts to  
forge new paths, build unique solutions, and inspire others to continue 
their efforts.

We are building relationships with key academic institutions worldwide. 
Our CEO, Tim Cook, sits on the Advisory Board of Tsinghua University’s 
School of Economics and Management in Beijing, where we are funding 
a $3 million endowed chair professorship focused on Responsible 
Innovation. We also collaborated with Tsinghua to launch an App Innovation 
Contest and a Green Innovators program, focusing on creative solutions 
to environmental challenges, governance, and public administration 
through entrepreneurship.

Our partnership with app developers and customers across the world 
led to Apps for Earth, an initiative that generated over $8 million to 
support World Wildlife Fund’s global environmental projects. The projects, 
spanning all seven continents, will focus on funding conservation in seven 
key areas: 

•  Conserve coastal riches by expanding and reinforcing marine protected 

areas, conserving critical migratory corridors for marine life, and 
protecting the livelihoods of coastal communities for future generations.

•  Combat climate change by piloting low-impact, habitat-friendly energy 
usage in Arctic communities, protecting critical habitat areas of the 
Arctic, and leveraging corporate purchasing activity to power the shift 
to renewables.

33

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016•  Preserve forests by enhancing forest protections, creating habitat-

friendly development plans in emerging economies, and reenforcing 
community stewardship efforts.

•  Ensure sustainable food sources by engaging with communities to 

advance sustainable agriculture practices, expand food access and 
livelihoods, and influence business and retailers to make smart choices 
to protect the planet for future generations.

•  Provide safe and secure water by advancing efforts to restore a critical 

binational river system, highlighting links between vulnerable water 
systems and global security, and creating a model of success for 
regional water and sanitation development.

•  Save sea turtles and tigers by enhancing technology for tracking, and 

protecting critical habitats.

•  Harmonize people, nature, and wildlife by deploying new technologies  

to protect key species, and strengthening communities to reduce 
human-wildlife conflict.

For 10 days in April 2016, Apple and 24 
developers worked together to launch 
Apps for Earth, a global campaign to  
benefit WWF and help the planet, one  
app at a time.

34

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Sharing best practices.

We believe that sharing our vision and our commitment can make a  
difference well beyond Apple’s business. To increase our impact, our 
team presented at several notable conferences, meetings, and  
events, including:

•  The Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM7) and Low Carbon Technology 

Partnerships initiative conferences, both in San Francisco, where we 
advocated for climate action by companies and stronger clean-energy 
policies by governments.

•  Electronics Goes Green conference in Berlin, where we shared our  

progress on circular economy, resource efficiency, and safer materials.

•  Ceres Conference in Boston, where we discussed the importance of 
integrating safer materials strategies into product design processes.

•  Climate Week in New York City, where we shined a spotlight on our  

work to gain renewable energy commitments from our manufacturing 
suppliers.

Advocating for strong policies.

We believe it’s important to stand alongside those who share our values 
and our passion for this work. To defend the best ideas and to amplify  
our beliefs. And to speak out when our voice will have a powerful impact.

In April 2016, Apple joined Google, Microsoft, and Amazon to sign an 
amicus brief in support of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean 
Power Plan. As leading U.S. businesses, we wanted to send a clear 
message to lawmakers that renewable energy is great for business.

In June 2016, Lisa Jackson addressed 700 senior government, business, 
and community leaders, at the seventh Clean Energy Ministerial, where 
she called for governments across the world to put a price on carbon to 
address climate change. 

35

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Appendix A
Apple’s Operations: Environmental Data

Facilities Environmental Key Performance Indicators  
(Page 37)

Scopes 1 and 2 Building Carbon Emissions (Pages 38–39)

Fiscal Year 2016 Natural Gas and Electricity Use (Page 40)

36

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Facilities Environmental Key  
Performance Indicators 

The following table summarizes key environmental performance 
indicators relating to Apple’s global facilities, including our data  
centers, corporate offices, and almost 490 Apple Stores, together  
occupied by 116,000 Apple employees.¹ 

KPI

Unit

Fiscal Year

Scope 1

Natural gas, Diesel,  
Propane²

Fleet vehicles

Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions

Scope 2⁴

Scope 3⁵

metric tons  
CO₂e

2016

 34,320

2015

 28,100 

2014

2013

 28,490 

 29,300 

2012

 21,220 

 26,954 

 19,360³

 20,710 

 22,090 

 14,300 

 7370 

 41,600 

 303,910 

 117,550 

 186,360 

 8740 

 42,460 

 312,910 

 139,940⁶ 

 172,970 

 7780 

 63,210 

 7210 

 91,510 

 6920 

 139,160 

 259,130 

 225,630 

 202,060 

 110,940 

 148,190 

 90,948 

 134,685 

 85,090 

 116,970 

 379,830 

 383,470

 350,830 

 346,440 

 362,440 

million kWh

million btu

 1450 

 1170 

 280 

 974,570 

 901,950 

 72,620 

 996 

 831 

 166 

 851,660 

 794,830 

 56,830 

 839 

 702 

 137 

 708 

590

118

608

—

—

 922,860 

 764,550 

 304,000 

840,490

82,370

676,630

87,920

240,230

63,770

kWh

 55,288,800 

37,875,000

31,225,000

26,241,600 

11,354,200 

million  
btu 

 4,448,300

2,706,900

2,041,900

1,543,600

54,900

%

 96 

 93 

 87 

 73 

 60 

metric tons CO₂e

585,000

362,000

 283,000 

 214,000 

 118,000 

million  
gallons

pounds

630

207

99

324

573

166

111

296

494 

 113 

 103 

 278 

430 

 69 

 94 

 267 

345 

 57 

 71 

 217 

 21,618,850 

 13,110,880 

 6,833,000 

 5,923,810 

 4,850,160 

 28,198,560 

 19,599,570 

 14,621,940 

 15,866,650 

 11,464,020 

 13,737,320 

 3,006,170⁹ 

—⁹

—

—

Business travel

Employee commute

Total Facilities Emissions 
(Scopes 1, 2, 3)

Electricity

U.S.

International

Natural gas

U.S.

International

Electricity saved as a result of 
energy efficiency measures 
(cumulative since 2011)

Natural gas saved as a result 
of energy efficiency measures 
(cumulative since 2011)

Renewable energy sourcing 
(calendar year)

Emissions avoided as a  
result of renewable energy 
sourcing (scopes 1 and 2)

Total

Data centers

Retail

Corporate

Landfilled

Recycled 

Composted

Energy Use

Energy  
Efficiency⁷

Renewable  
Energy⁸

Water Use

Waste  
Generation

Hazardous waste

 2,287,320 

 1,002,300 

 508,040 

 70,550 

 123,460 

Landfill diversion rate

%

66

63

68

73

70

Notes:  
Apple’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Company’s fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014 ended on September 24, 2016, September 26, 2015,  
and September 27, 2014, respectively, and each spanned 52 weeks.
¹As reported in Apple’s Annual Report filed with the SEC (Form 10-K) for the fiscal year ending September 24, 2016 (fiscal year 2016).
²Scope 1 emissions for fiscal year 2016 include 261,580 gallons of diesel use in emergency back up generators at data centers and 21,840 kg of propane in corporate offices. Scope 1 emissions for fiscal year 2016 now 
include natural gas use at distribution centers.
³In fiscal year 2015, we adjusted our methodology to better reflect locations where natural gas is used. We estimate natural gas usage in offices and retail stores where we are not billed based on usage (e.g., leased
office space or retail stores within malls). This more accurate methodology resulted in a decrease in emissions in fiscal year 2015.
⁴Beginning in fiscal year 2016, we include distribution centers and colocation facilities as part of Apple’s electricity use and association greenhouse gas emissions. We had previously reported colocation center 
electricity use separately.
⁵Scope 3 emissions reported in this table include only those emissions associated with employee commute and business travel, calculated by employee miles traveled. Scope 3 emissions associated with product
life-cycle emissions are disclosed separately. 
⁶In fiscal year 2015, we adjusted our methodology to reflect actual travel instead of booked travel. Using this more accurate methodology revealed overestimates for previous years.
⁷Because energy efficiency measures have lasting benefits, energy efficiency savings are calculated cumulatively since 2011.
⁸We calculate and report our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy by calendar year. In calendar year 2016, we used 1,572 million kilowatt-hours of electricity worldwide.
⁹Prior to fiscal year 2015, composted quantities were reported as part of the “recycled” figure.

37

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Scopes 1 and 2 Building Carbon  
Emissions (metric tons CO₂e)

Fiscal Year 2016

Location

Default Utility Emissions³

Apple Emissions 
(incl. Renewable Energy)

Default Utility Emissions³

Apple Emissions  
(incl. Renewable Energy)

Scope 1¹

Scope 2²

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA 
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV
Mesa, AZ
Colocation Facilities⁴

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Fiscal Year 2015

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Fiscal Year 2014

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

22,109
18,693
397
248
883
780
65
38
1005

28,731
26,119
139
1077
713
683
 — 

3679
1597
2082

54,519

16,960
14,792
369
233
121
892
0
117
435

24,543
24,530
0
13
0

3800
2269
1531

45,303

16,716
14,310
411
148
115
1000
51
385
296

26,854
26,835
0
18
0

5355
2812
2543

48,924

20,537
17,121
397
248
883
780
65
38
1005

2738
126
139
1077
713
683
 — 

3679
1597
2082

26,954

15,423
13,256
369
233
121
892
0
117
435

136
123
0
13
0

3800
2269
1531

19,359

15,335
12,929
411
148
115
1000
51
385
296

18
0
0
18
0

5355
2812
2543

20,708

166,990
52,884
3790
32,305
7476
8915
8084
10,878
42,658

334,824
103,296
24,993
83,912
31,222
7601
83,800

97,708
42,050
55,658

599,522

106,134
42,074
3279
20,874
2715
6227
5310
9050
16,605

186,586
99,907
26,519
39,507
20,653

86,070
42,543
43,527

378,790

86,842
36,496
2516
15,149
2270
7678
6852
8577
7304

148,320
92,306
38,278
10,392
7344

82,770
45,041
37,729

317,932

30,408
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30,408

2269
0
0
0
0
0
2269

8924
0
8924

41,601

19,564
0
0
0
0
0
3767
2201
13,596

0
0
0
0
0

22,893
0
22,893

42,457

21,555
0
0
0
0
0
6852
8577
6126

0
0
0
0
0

41,658
11,036
30,662

63,213

38

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Fiscal Year 2013

Location

Default Utility Emissions³

Apple Emissions 
(incl. Renewable Energy)

Default Utility Emissions³

Apple Emissions 
(incl. Renewable Energy)

Scope 1¹

Scope 2²

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Fiscal Year 2012

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Fiscal Year 2011

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Notes:  

— Energy source not yet online.

15,211
12,231
509
83
337
743
50
390
868

19,360
19,360 
0
0
0

6158
3548
2610

40,729

13,160
10,949
560
59
237
715
32
—
609

146
146
0
0

2812
787
2025

16,118

14,425
11,007
556
45
564
804
—
—
1449

0
0
0

2600
746
1854

17,025

13,727
10,747
509
83
337
743
50
390
868

2201
2201
0
0
0

6158
3548
2610

22,086

15,423
13,256
369
233
121
892
0
117
435

46
146
0
0

2812
787
2025

14,301

12,656
9238
556
45
564
804
—
—
1449

0
0
0

2600
746
1854

15,256

85,354
43,116
4400
12,162
2463
5320
5826
7490
4578

123,855
75,836
36,959
9965
1095

77,425
44,606
32,819

286,634

84,611
39,457
6952
10,635
4265
4801
4946
1049
12,505

87,732
52,977
33,492
1263

83,285
—
—

255,628

82,183
39,428
7930
10,139
2141
4598
3243
280
14,424

51,651
22,663
28,988

65,769
—
—

17,503
0
0
0
0
0
5826
7490
4187

0
0
0
0
0

74,002
44,606
29,397

91,505

48,215
25,450
0
0
4265
0
4946
1049
12,505

7664
0
7664
0

83,285
—
—

139,164

59,516
39,428
0
0
2141
0
3243
280
14,424

28,988
0
28,988

65,769
—
—

199,603

154,273

¹Scope 1 emissions result from natural gas use for facilities, and gasoline use for fleet vehicles. As is typical, these emissions are tracked separately from our 100 percent renewable energy claim.

²Scope 2 emissions result from electricity use for facilities. In addition, in fiscal year 2014, Apple owned a facility in Mesa, Arizona, that was operated by a supplier, which had default grid emissions of 151,279 tons  
CO2e and effective emissions of 0 tons CO2e in fiscal year 2014. It was removed from operation in fiscal year 2015.

³Default Utility Emissions are based on utility-scale and regional default grid emission factors (using the most granular data set available).

⁴In FY2016, we began tracking electricity used at colocation facilities as part of Apple’s footprint. 

39

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Fiscal Year 2016 Natural Gas and  
Electricity Use

The chart below provides a detailed breakdown of fiscal year 2016 energy 
use, which is used to calculate our carbon emissions.

Fiscal Year 2016

Location

Total Gas
(mmBTU)

Renewable Biogas
(mmBTU)

Total Electricity
(million kWh)

Renewable Electricity
(million kWh)

Natural Gas

Electricity

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.¹
Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International¹

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV 
Mesa, AZ 
Colocation Facilities²

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Percent Renewable³

— Data not tracked

414,003
351,905
7456
4668
16,552 
13,767
0
1874
17,779

491,378
491,159
0
185
0
33 
—

69,197
29,994
39,203

974,577

29,712
29,712
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

491,159
491,159
0
0
0
0 
—

0
0
0

520,871

53%

473
260
13
54
20
14
18
12
82

778
244
130
115
90
19
180

203
99
104

1454

419
260
13
54
20
14
18
12
28

775
244
130
115
90
19
177

191
99
92

1385

95%

¹Includes energy used at distribution centers, beginning in FY2016.

²In FY2016, we began tracking electricity used at colocation facilities as part of Apple’s footprint.

³For ease of accounting, we calculate our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy on a calendar year basis, while we track and report all other environmental impacts on a fiscal year basis. In calendar year 
2016, 96 percent of the 1,572 million kWh electricity we used came from renewable sources.

40

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Appendix B 
Data Center Energy Supplement

Apple’s data center presence continues to grow. Each data center  
has unique design features that reflect the climate and other aspects  
of its specific site. All of our data centers operate on 100 percent 
renewable energy and power billions of iMessages, answers from Siri,  
and song downloads from iTunes. That means no matter how much  
data they handle, there is a zero greenhouse gas emissions impact  
from their electricity use. These data centers use renewable energy 
sources like solar, wind, biogas fuel cells, and micro-hydro power  
from onsite and locally obtained resources.

Maiden, North Carolina
On any given day, between 60 and 100 percent of our Maiden data  
center’s energy use is generated through 68 megawatts of Apple  
projects: two 20-megawatt solar arrays, an 18-megawatt solar array,  
and 10 megawatts of biogas fuel cells. In 2015, we took a new approach  
to support further growth at our Maiden data center: We partnered with 
the local utility, Duke Energy, to help build five solar PV projects through 
Duke Energy’s Green Source Rider program. These solar PV projects, 
which started coming online in late 2015 to support our Maiden data  
center, were Duke Energy’s first Green Source Rider projects to become  
operational. We worked with Duke Energy for several years to develop  
this green energy tariff option, which allowed Apple and Duke Energy  
to work together to develop new renewable energy projects. The five  
projects have a combined peak capacity of 20 megawatts. All told,  
Apple’s data center will be supported by projects that generate 244  
million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year, which is equivalent  
to the energy used by 17,906 North Carolina homes.*

Among Maiden’s energy efficiency features are the use of outside air  
cooling through a waterside economizer during night and cool-weather 
hours, which, along with water storage, allows the chillers to be turned  
off more than 75 percent of the time.

* Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2015 data:  

www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf.

41

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Solar arrays + Fuel Cell Family

Wind

Maiden, North Carolina—100% renewable since opening June 2010

Duke Energy Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Nuclear

Coal

Other

51%

33%

16%

Apple’s Solar PV Projects

Biogas Fuel Cells

Duke Green Source Rider  
(100% Solar PV)

Renewable

<1%

NC GreenPower (80% solar)

2016 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

103,296

2016 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

From Duke Energy Carolinas 2015 Statistical  Supplement 
generation data

Actual fiscal year 2016 energy data

36%

28%

8%

36%

0

Newark, California
Our data center in Newark, California, is powered by 100 percent  
renewable energy. We hit this milestone in January 2013, when we began 
serving the data center with energy sourced primarily from California wind 
power. We’re acquiring this energy directly from the wholesale market 
through California’s Direct Access program. Late in 2017, when we antici-
pate the 130-megawatt California Flats solar project in Monterey County, 
California, to come online, we’ll use Direct Access to supply power from 
that project directly to our data center as well as other Apple facilities in 
California.

Newark, California—100% renewable since opening January 2013

Pacific Gas & Electric Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Natural Gas

Nuclear

Other/Unspecified

Renewable

25%

23%

22%

30%

Bundled Grid (mostly wind)

Grid (mostly wind)

2016 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

24,993

2016 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

https://www.pge.com/pge_global/common/pdfs/your- 
account/your-bill/understand-your-bill/bill-inserts/ 
2016/11.16_PowerContent.pdf

Actual fiscal year 2016 energy data

84%

16%

0

Prineville, Oregon
To support our Prineville data center, we recently signed a 200-megawatt 
power purchase agreement for a new Oregon wind farm, the Montague 
Wind Power Project, set to come online by the end of 2018. This is our 
first Apple-created wind project. And it’s our largest project to date,  
producing over 560 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy 
a year. Additionally, we executed a power purchase agreement for the 
56-megawatt Solar Star Oregon II PV array located just a few miles from 
our data center. The project comes online at the end of this year and 
will produce 140 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year. To 

42

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Wind + Micro-Hydro

strengthen the connection between Apple and these projects, we use 
Oregon’s Direct Access program to schedule the renewable energy from 
these projects directly to our data center.

Also supporting the data center are two micro-hydro projects that  
harness the power of water flowing through local irrigation canals that 
have been operating for over 60 years. These micro-hydro projects  
generate 12 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year.

Supplementing these projects, and ensuring we remain 100 percent 
renewable all the time, we executed a long-term purchase agreement 
for all environmental attributes with Cypress Creek Renewables from a 
50-megawatt portfolio of six solar arrays in Oregon.

Prineville, Oregon—100% renewable since opening May 2012

Pacific Power Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Coal

Natural Gas

Other

Renewable

Apple’s Micro-Hydro Projects

Oregon Wind

Utility Green

62%

17%

6%

15%

2016 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

83,912

2016 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

https://www.pacificpower.net/content/dam/pacific_ 
power/doc/About_Us/Rates_Regulation/Oregon/11536-9_
PP_ORLabelingInsert_LrgBiz_F.pdf

Actual fiscal year 2016 energy data

5%

94%

1%

0

Reno, Nevada
Unlike competitive energy markets where we’ve located some of our data 
centers, the regulated electricity supply in Nevada did not offer a simple 
solution for us to create new renewable energy projects dedicated to our 
data center. So we created a partnership with the local utility, NV Energy, 
to develop our first renewable project: the Fort Churchill Solar PV project. 
Apple designed, financed, and constructed the project, and NV Energy 
operates it and directs all the renewable energy it produces to our data 
center. The Fort Churchill Solar PV project uses a new kind of photovoltaic 
panel with curved mirrors that concentrate sunlight. The 20-megawatt 
array has an annual production capacity of over 43 million kilowatt-hours 
of clean, renewable energy. 

To facilitate further renewable development in Nevada, Apple worked  
with NV Energy and the Nevada utility commission to create a green  
energy option open to all commercial customers that does not require  
the customer to fund project development up front. Thanks to this new 
option, in late 2015 we announced our second Nevada solar array, a 
50-megawatt project called Boulder II that came online in December 
2016. We’re proud that another Nevada data center operator has also 
used the new green energy option, twice.

43

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Solar + Geothermal

Solar Array

In early 2017 we again used the green energy option for our third Nevada 
solar array, a 200-megawatt project called Techren Solar—Apple‘s largest 
solar array to date. It is set to come online by the end of 2018 and is 
estimated to produce over 540 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable 
energy a year.

Reno Nevada—100% renewable since opening December 2012

NV Energy – North Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Natural Gas

Coal

Other

Renewable

Apple’s Solar PV Projects

Other Solar PV (PPA)

52%

22%

3%

23%

2016 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

31,222

2016 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

https://www.nvenergy.com/bill_inserts/2017/Power_ 
Content_Insert_NVE-North_2017-01.pdf

Actual fiscal year 2016 energy data

53%

47%

0

Mesa, Arizona
Our newest data center, our global command center in Mesa, Arizona, 
came online in 2016. To support this facility, we partnered with the local 
utility, the Salt River Project, to build the 50-megawatt Bonnybrooke solar 
array, which became operational in October 2016. This project produces 
over 147 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy a year, which 
more than fully matches the energy used by the data center.

Mesa Arizona—100% renewable since opening March 2017*

Salt River Project (SRP) Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Coal

Nuclear

Natural Gas/Other

Renewable

2016 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

53%

18%

17%

12%

7601

SRP Solar PV Purchase

100%

2016 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO₂e/year)

0

https://www.srpnet.com/about/stations/pdfx/2014irp.pdf

Actual fiscal year 2016 energy data

*Apple took operational control of the building in October 2015 and converted it to a data center that began servicing customers in  
March 2017.

Viborg, Denmark
We’re currently constructing a new data center running on 100 percent 
renewable energy in Denmark’s central Jutland region. Due to its proximity 
to one of Denmark’s largest electrical substations, the data center won’t 
require back-up generators, which typically run on diesel and require 
periodic testing and burning of fuel. The facility is designed to capture 
excess heat from its equipment and conduct it into the local district 
heating system to help warm homes in the community. 

44

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Denmark has a long tradition of biomass energy generation from 
agricultural waste products. Apple is partnering with Aarhus University 
(Viborg campus) to co-develop an agricultural waste biomass project. 
Methane from the biomass digester reaction will be used to create 
renewable electricity for our data center. Much of the agricultural waste 
going into the digester will come from local farms in a mutually beneficial 
relationship. They bring us their agriculture waste material to use as 
feedstock for the digester and we give them the nutrient-rich by product 
of the digestion process, which they can apply to their fields.

Athenry, Ireland
Our data center in County Galway, Ireland, will be built on recovered land 
that was previously used for commercial lumber. It will provide a forested 
outdoor education space for local schools and a walking trail for the 
community. When it opens, the data center will run on 100 percent clean, 
renewable energy, and will be cooled by natural ventilation, rather than 
mechanical air-conditioning, by taking advantage of the mild Irish climate.

Ireland has one of the strongest coastal wave energy resources of 
anywhere in the world. Apple has partnered with the Sustainable Energy 
Authority of Ireland to support innovative new ways of capturing wave 
energy and converting it to renewable electricity, with Apple agreeing to 
use electricity generated from new wave energy technologies to support 
the Athenry data center. Through this partnership, Apple supports a new 
wave energy technology developed by the Irish company SeaPower and 
recently tested in Galway Bay.

Our colocation facilities 
The vast majority of our online services are provided by our own data centers; 
however, we also use third-party colocation facilities for additional data 
center capacity. While we don’t own these shared facilities and use only a 
portion of their total capacity, we include our portion of their energy use in 
our renewable energy goals. Over 99 percent* of our power for colocation 
facilities is matched with renewable energy generated within the same state 
or NERC region for facilities in the United States, or within the same country 
for those around the world. And we will keep working with the colocation 
suppliers to get to 100 percent. 

Furthermore, we worked with one of our main suppliers of colocation services 
to help them develop the capability to provide renewable energy solutions to 
its customers. This partnership advances Apple’s renewable energy program 
and those of other companies that use this colocation provider.

Beyond the use of our own data centers and colocation facilities, we also  
use third-party computing services to support some of our on-demand  
cloud storage-based services. We encourage these suppliers to adopt a  
100 percent renewable energy strategy for their energy use.

*In calendar year 2016.

45

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Energy Use and Emissions at Apple’s Colocation Facilities

Energy Use 
(kWh)

Renewable 
Energy (kWh)

Default Utility  
Emissions¹  
(metric tons CO₂e)

Apple’s Emissions - 
including renewable 
energy² 
(metric tons CO₂e)

%  
Renewable 
Energy

FY2011

42,524

0

12

FY2012

38,552,271

1,471,680

17,220

FY2013

79,462,860

46,966,891

31,757

FY2014

108,659,693

88,553,380

44,338

FY2015

142,615,026

121,086,061

60,495

FY2016³

180,205,500

176,774,556

83,800

12

16,543

14,493

10,976

12,740

2269

0%

4%

59%

81%

85%

98%

¹We calculate “default utility emissions” to provide baseline emissions of what our carbon footprint would have been without the use of 
renewable energy. This allows us to demonstrate the savings resulting from our renewable energy program.

²Apple’s greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology for 
calculating market-based emissions.

³Over the past two years, we have been installing submeters in colocation facilities to better track electricity usage. Beginning in FY2016, 
we are reporting this submetered electricity usage. Prior to FY2016, reported electricity usage was conservatively estimated based on 
maximum contract capacity quantities.

Regional Energy Use at Apple’s Colocation Facilities  
(Fiscal Year 2016)  

Energy Use
(kWh)

Renewable Energy
(kWh)

% 
Renewable Energy

U.S.

127,286,720

Europe

27,576,768

APAC

Other

24,750,670

591,342

127,286,720

27,576,768

21,906,038

0

FY2016 Total

180,205,500

176,769,526

100%

100%

89%*

0%

98%

*This value became 100 percent starting January 2016, bringing the total renewable energy figure to 99 percent for calendar year 2016.

46

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix C
Assurance and Review Statements

Bureau Veritas: Corporate energy, carbon, waste and 
water data (Pages 48-50)

Fraunhofer Institute: Product life cycle carbon footprint  
(Pages 51-54)

Fraunhofer Institute: Corporate, retail, and product  
fiber footprint (Pages 55–56)

47

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 

Introduction and objectives of work  

Bureau  Veritas  North  America,  Inc.  (BVNA)  was  engaged  by  Apple,  Inc.  (Apple)  to  conduct  an 
independent  assurance  of  select  environmental  data  reported  in  its  2016  environmental  report  (the 
Report).   This  Assurance  Statement  applies  to  the  related  information  included  within  the  scope  of 
work described below.  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple. 
The  overall  aim  of  this  process  is  to  provide  assurance  to  Apple’s  stakeholders  on  the  accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report.   

This information and  its presentation in the  Report are the sole responsibility  of the management of 
Apple.  BVNA was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the Report.  

Scope of Work  

Apple requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following:  

  Assurance of  select environmental data and information included in the Report for the fiscal 
year 2016 reporting period (September 27, 2015 through September 24, 2016), specifically, in 
accordance  with  Apple’s  definitions  and  World  Resources  Institute  (WRI)/World  Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  

o  Energy: Direct (Million Therms) and Indirect (Million kilowatt hours (mkWh)) 
o  Renewable Energy (mkWH) 
o  Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons) 
o  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions: Direct Scope 1 emissions by weight, Indirect Scope 
2  emissions  by  weight,  Indirect  Scope  3  emissions  by  weight  (Employee  Commute  and 
Business Travel) (Metric Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent) 

o  Waste Quantities and Disposition (Metric Tonnes) 
o  Paper Quantities (Metric Tonnes) 
o  Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 

collect, analyze, and review the environmental information reported;  

Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: 

  Text or other written statements associated with the Report 
  Activities outside the defined assurance period  

Methodology  

BVNA undertook the following activities:  

1.  Site  visits  to  Apple  facilities  in  Haifa  and  Herzliya,  Israel;  Austin,  Texas;  and  Prineville, 

Oregon;  

2.  Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 

3. 

Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple (11 individuals including employees and external 
contractors at the corporate level);  

4.  Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple;  

5.  Audit of environmental performance data presented in the Report, including a detailed review 

of a sample of data against source data; and 

6.  Review  of  Apple  information  systems  for  collection,  aggregation,  analysis  and  internal 

verification and review of environmental data.  

48

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc. 

Page 2 

Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  
Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 

The  work  was  planned  and  carried  out  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  for  all  indicators  and  we 
believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.  

Our Findings   
BVNA  verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal  Year  2016 reporting  period (September 27, 
2015 through September 24, 2016):  

Parameter 

Quantity 

Units 

Boundary/ Protocol 

Natural Gas Consumption:    9.7  

Million Therms 

Electricity Consumption: 

1,454 

Renewable Energy 

1,385 

Scope 1 GHG Emissions 

34,000 

Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide / Invoiced 
quantities & self-generated 

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh) 

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh) 

metric tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO2e) 

Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol 

Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
(Location-Based) 

Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
(Market-Based) 

Scope 3 GHG Emissions – 
Business Travel  

542,000 

tCO2e 

41,600 

tCO2e 

118,000 

tCO2e 

Scope 3 GHG Emissions – 
Employee Commute 

186,000 

tCO2e 

Water Withdrawal 

630 

Million gallons 

Trash  disposed in Landfill 

9,800 

Metric tonnes 

Hazardous Waste 
(Regulated waste) 

Recycled Material 
(Removal by recycling 
contractor) 
Composted Material 

Paper 

1,000 

Metric tonnes 

12,800 

Metric tonnes 

6,200 

1,100 

Metric tonnes 

Metric tonnes 

Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3) 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3) 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 

49

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc. 

Our Conclusion 

Page 3 

Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, we conclude that:  

  The  Energy,  Water,  Waste,  Paper,  and  Scope  1,  2  &  3  GHG  Emissions  assertions  shown 
above are materially correct and are a fair representation of the data and information; and 
  Apple  has  established  appropriate  systems  for  the  collection,  aggregation  and  analysis  of 
relevant  environmental  information,  and  has  implemented  underlying  internal  assurance 
practices  that  provide  a  reasonable  degree  of  confidence  that  such  information  is  complete 
and accurate.  

Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 

BVNA  is  an  independent  professional  services  company  that  specializes  in  Quality,  Health,  Safety, 
Social  and  Environmental  management  with  over  180  years  history  in  providing  independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2016 revenue of $4.5 billion Euros. 

No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple, its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest.  

BVNA  has  implemented  a  Code  of  Ethics  across  the  business  to  maintain  high  ethical  standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   

The  assurance  team  has  extensive  experience  in  conducting  assurance  over  environmental,  social, 
ethical  and  health  and  safety  information,  systems  and  processes,  has  over  20  years  combined 
experience  in  this  field  and  an  excellent  understanding  of  BVNA  standard  methodology  for  the 
Assurance of Sustainability Reports.  

Attestation:  

Trevor A. Donaghu, Lead Verifier  
Technical Director, Climate Change Services 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services 
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 

John A. Rohde, Technical Reviewer 
Senior Project Manager 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 

April 10, 2017 

50

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Letter of Assurance 
Company Carbon Footprint – Scope 3: Product related Carbon Footprint 
for Fiscal Year 2016 

Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 company carbon footprint (CCF) data related to 
the products manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2016.  

1

Summary 

This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the calculated corporate 
annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle assessment 
(LCA) of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2016. This review and verification focuses on 
Scope 3 emissions for products sold by Apple Inc. (as defined by WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard).  It is noted that emissions 
relating to the facilities that are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 and 2 emissions) as well 
as business travel and employee commute were subject to a separate third party 
verification and are therefore excluded from the scope of this statement. Confidential data 
relating to product sales and shipments were also excluded from the scope of this 
verification.  

This review and verification covers Apple’s corporate annual greenhouse gas emissions and 
does not replace reviews conducted for individual product LCAs for greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by Apple for individual products 
has been calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/14044: Environmental 
management – Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework / Requirements and 
guidelines. This review and verification furthermore complies with ISO 14064-3: 
Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification 
of greenhouse gas assertions.  

The review of the corporate annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria: 

 The system, boundaries and functional unit are clearly defined 

 Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 

 Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 

are adequately disclosed 

CCF Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc.

1

51

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (99%) of Apple Inc. annual corporate 
carbon footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The 
aforementioned criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a 
view to providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  

Data reported by Apple is as follows: 

2016

Manufacturing 
22.77 
[MMT CO2e] 

Transportation 
1.20 
[MMT CO2e]

Product Use 
4.86 
[MMT CO2e]

Recycling 
0.30 
[MMT CO2e]

MMT CO2e: million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents 

Including a reported value of 0.38 million metric tons CO2e for facilities (out of scope of 
this verification), total CCF is reported to be 29.52 million metric tons CO2e. 

Apple’s CCF includes greenhouse gas emissions reductions for manufacturing resulting 
from Apple renewable energy projects, supplier renewable electricity purchases, and 
supplier renewable electricity installations.  Many of these reductions are part of Apple’s 
Clean Energy Program. Fraunhofer IZM has not verified these emissions reductions. 

Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 corporate carbon footprint 

 is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 

information, and 

 has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 

GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 

2

Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 

A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046-3 has been established in the 
course of this CCF review and verification, defining the level of assurance, objectives, 
criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 

As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  

 Sales data for FY2016, including accessories and including AppleCare, Apple's 

extended warranty and technical support plans for their devices. 

CCF Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc.

2

52

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Regional distribution of sold units and country specific allocation per product to 

major sell-in countries 

 Product specific data on transportation including breakdown of air and sea 

shipment 

 Life cycle GHG emissions for all products, differentiating the actual product 

configurations (i.e. memory capacity) 

 Calculation methodology for the company carbon footprint and methodological 

changes implemented in 2016 

 The total company carbon footprint – scope 3 for the fiscal year 2016 

 Detailed analysis of the CCF including: 

o The breakdown of the CCF into life cycle phases manufacturing, 

transportation, product use and recycling 

o Detailed product specific split into life cycle phases 
o The contribution of individual products and product families to the overall 

CCF 

The data and information supporting the GHG assertion were projected (use phase and 
recycling) and historical (i.e. fiscal year 2016 data regarding sales figures, manufacturing, 
transportation). 

This review comprises a check of selected data, which are most influential to the overall 
company carbon footprint. The overall plausibility check addressed the following questions: 

 Are product LCAs referenced correctly? 

 Are results for products, for which no full LCA review was undertaken, plausible? 

 Are carbon emission data for individual products plausible in the light of 

methodological changes as indicated by Apple?  

This review was done remotely. 

3

Findings 

Prior to this CCF review and verification 5 recent product LCA studies have been reviewed 
successfully against ISO 14040/44. These recent LCAs cover product segments Apple 

CCF Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc.

3

53

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Watch, iPad, and iPhone. These latest LCA studies cover products which represent in total 
7,2% of the total scope 3 company carbon footprint. Representatives of other product 
segments (iPod, MacBook, MacBook Pro, iMac, Mac Pro, Mac Mini, Airport Express / 
Airport Extreme, Apple TV, and Beats products) underwent no or only minor design 
changes compared to those which went through a full LCA review in former years. All 
reviewed LCA studies up to now cover in total 55,6% of the total scope 3 company carbon 
footprint.  

The methodological changes implemented with the 2016 CCF data are confirmed to lead 
to an improvement in terms of accuracy and real use patterns representation of the results. 
Inevitably this hampers the comparability of published 2016 results with earlier CCF data. 

All questions raised in the course of the review were answered by Apple and related 
evidence was provided where needed. 

Further improvements of applied data models have been discussed with Apple and are 
under consideration for future methodological revisions. 

4

Conclusions 

We observe from year to year an improvement of the assessment approach in terms of 
granularity of the used calculation data. This year several additional components are 
modelled with more accurate primary data from Apple’s suppliers and with updated 
calculation models.  

For all product LCA calculations, where exact data was missing, the principle of a worst-
case approach has been followed and results have been calculated with rather conservative 
estimates.   

The review has not found assumptions or calculation errors on the CCF data level that 
indicate the scope 3 corporate carbon footprint has been materially misstated. The 
excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    

Berlin, March 31, 2017 

- Karsten Schischke -   
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and 
Reliability Engineering  

- Christian Clemm - 
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering 

CCF Letter of Assurance
Client: Apple Inc.

4

54

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Review Statement 
Corporate Fiber Footprint 

Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s corporate fiber footprint data related to corporate fiber 
usage from products, corporate, and retail operations in fiscal year 2016.  

1 

Summary 

This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated corporate annual fiber footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2016 
and of corporate and retail operations in the same period.  

As there is no standardised method available for calculating a product or company fiber 
footprint Apple defined a methodology for internal use. The scope of the Fiber Footprint 
includes Apple’s corporate fiber usage from products, corporate, and retail operations. The 
fiber footprint tracks the total amount of wood fiber, both virgin and recycled, that Apple 
uses in packaging, and other paper products. Apple obtains and analyses supplier-specific 
data for each product line and sums up these figures for the entire company using sell-in 
numbers. The output is a total fiber footprint.  

The review of the corporate annual fiber footprint has considered the following criteria: 

(cid:131)  The system boundaries are clearly defined 
(cid:131)  Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 
(cid:131)  Use of supplier data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 

disclosed 

Data reported by Apple is as follows: 

2016 

Total Fiber 
131,151 
[metric tons fiber] 

Virgin Fiber 
50,210 
[metric tons fiber] 

Recycled Fiber 
80,941 
[metric tons fiber] 

All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 2016 are plausible. 

55

Corporate Fiber Footprint Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 

Reviewed Data and Findings 

As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  
(cid:131)  Calculation methodology for the corporate fiber footprint 
(cid:131)  Sales data for FY2016, including accessories 
(cid:131)  Selected product and supplier specific data on packaging design (including CAD 
design drawings), materials (distinction of paper qualities, fiber content, including 
recycled fiber content), weights and production yields (process yields and cut-off 
losses) 

(cid:131)  Aggregated fiber data for all products and the total corporate fiber footprint for 

the fiscal year 2016 

The revised methodology paper provided by Apple (Fiber Footprint at Apple - Methodology 
Description - V1.1) on March 6, 2017, is considered a sound and appropriate guidance for 
determining the company fiber footprint. Where appropriate, this approach follows 
methodological principles applied for state-of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments. 

This review comprises a check of fiber data for selected products, which are most 
influential to the overall corporate fiber footprint and which represent the full spectrum of 
Apple products. The selection of products for individual reviews has been agreed between 
Apple and Fraunhofer IZM. 

Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly. Similarly, system boundaries for the corporate and 
retail related fiber usage have been discussed and clarified. 

This review was done remotely. All questions raised in the course of the review were 
answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   

Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
fiber footprint is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of fiber data and 
information. The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    

Berlin, March 8, 2017 

- Karsten Schischke -   
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and 
Reliability Engineering  

- Dr. Nils F. Nissen - 
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering 

56

Corporate Fiber Footprint Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix D
Environmental Health and Safety Policy 
Statement

Mission statement
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and  
safety of our employees, customers and the global communities where  
we operate.

We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety 
management practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer  
technologically innovative products and services while conserving and 
enhancing resources for future generations.

Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health  
and safety management systems and in the environmental quality of our 
products, processes, and services.

Guiding principles
Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety  
requirements. We will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring  
ongoing performance results and through periodic management reviews.

Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will 
adopt our own standards to protect human health and the environment.

Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible 
public policy that enhance environmental quality, health and safety.

Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety  
principles and practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers.

Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs  
to Apple employees and stakeholders.

Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote 
energy efficiency, and protect the environment.

Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve 
energy and materials, and prevent pollution throughout the product life 
cycle including design, manufacture, use, and end-of-life management.

Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to  
fulfill and sustain Apple’s environmental, health and safety management 
systems and policy.

Luca Maestri 
Senior Vice President and CFO 
January 2017

57

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2017 Progress Report, Covering FY2016Report Notes:

• This report is published annually and covers fiscal year 2016 activities, unless otherwise noted.

•  This report addresses environmental impacts and activities at Apple-owned facilities (corporate offices, data 

centers, and retail stores), as well as the life-cycle impacts of our products, including in the manufacturing, 

transportation, use, and end-of-life phases.

• To provide feedback on this report, please contact environment-report@apple.com.

 ¹ “Boards and Flexes” refers to printed circuit boards and flexible printed circuits.

 ² CO₂e, or carbon dioxide equivalent, is a standard unit for measuring carbon footprints. It translates into  

   one number the impact of different greenhouse gases based on their potential to contribute to climate  

   change.

 ³ Greenhouse gas equivalencies calculated using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator:  

   www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator.

 ⁴ Based on sales-weighted averages.

 ⁵ Based on the average residential cost of electricity in the U.S. in 2015; includes customer use scenarios  

   and power consumed by the power adapter when disconnected from the iPhone.

 ⁶ Based on the EPA ENERGY STAR database for Desktop Computers as of February 7, 2017.

 ⁷ The tin in the solder has been verified by a third party to be 100 percent recycled. As of April 2017, we’re  

   transitioning iPhone 6s production to use 100 percent recycled tin solder for the main logic board.

 ⁸ Based on expected equivalent fiber production from our forestry projects and virgin fiber used for Apple  

   product packaging. To determine the output of Apple’s projects, we work with our partners to understand  

   the productive potential of these working forests. The forest management plans required to achieve or  

   maintain certification limit harvest volumes to sustainable levels. We use these potential harvest volumes  

   to estimate the sustainable productive capacity of these forests.

 ⁹ Anhui, Fujian, Guangxi, Guangdong, Hubei, Hunan, and Yunnan provinces.

 ¹⁰ Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cords in India and  

   South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement.

© 2017 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, AirPort Express, AirPort Extreme, Apple Pencil,  

Apple TV, Apple Watch, FaceTime, iBooks, iMac, iMessage, iPad, iPad Pro, iPhone, iPod, iTunes, Mac, Mac Pro, 

MacBook, MacBook Pro, Mac mini, macOS, and Siri are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and  

other countries. Touch Bar is a trademark of Apple Inc. App Store, AppleCare, and Apple Store are service marks 

of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. ENERGY STAR is a U.S. registered mark. Other product 

and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies. April 2017

 
