Environmental 
Responsibility Report

2016 Progress Report, Covering Fiscal Year 2015

We designed a line of robots that can take apart up to 1.2 million phones a year. We call it Liam.Page 3 

Environmental Responsibility at Apple

Page 5 

Climate Change

Page 16 

Resources

Page 24 

Safer Materials

Page 27 

We’re better together

Page 28 

Page 33 

Page 37 

Page 47 

Page 48 

Appendix A
Apple’s Operations: Environmental Data
• Facilities Environmental Key Performance Indicators
• Scopes 1 & 2 Building Carbon Emissions
• FY2015 Natural Gas and Electricity Use

Appendix B
Data Center Energy Supplement

Appendix C 
Assurance and Review Statements
• Facilities energy, carbon, waste, and water data 
• Product life cycle carbon footprint
• Paper footprint

Appendix D 
Environmental Health and Safety Policy Statement 

Appendix E
EMS Certification

2

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015 
Environmental 
Responsibility at Apple

Innovation is at the heart of everything we do at Apple, and that extends to our  
commitment to protecting the natural environment for the future.

We believe our planet deserves our best thinking. So we’re constantly striving to find or 
invent solutions to important environmental challenges—whether it’s a line of robots 
that disassembles iPhone 6 for recycling, a vast network of solar panels on urban roof-
tops to power our facilities in Singapore, or new product designs that eliminate harmful  
substances like beryllium.

Apple’s 2016 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2015, is our ninth 
annual update, highlighting the progress we’ve made and the places we’re working 
hard to improve. 

Focus and simplify is one of our mantras. So, after deep reflection, data analysis, and  
conversations with stakeholders, we set three priorities where we believe Apple can 
make the most impact: 

•  Reduce our impact on climate change by using renewable energy sources and driving 

energy efficiency in our products and facilities. 

•  Conserve precious resources so we all can thrive. 

•  Pioneer the use of safer materials in our products and processes. 

•  This report details how we are approaching each of these priorities, and highlights 

some of our key accomplishments to date. 

For starters, as of January 2016, we’re sourcing or generating enough renewable energy 
to cover 93 percent of the electricity we use at our facilities worldwide. In fact, Apple is 
now 100 percent renewable in 23 countries, including China, Germany, Singapore, and 
the United States. We’re also 100 percent renewable at every one of our data centers. So 
whenever you send an iMessage, download a song from iTunes, or ask Siri a question, 
the energy Apple uses doesn’t contribute to climate change.

In the past five years, we have reduced the carbon footprint of Apple facilities by  
64 percent thanks to our clean energy use, avoiding over 1 million metric tons of  
carbon emissions. We’re working hard to reach 100 percent renewable energy for all  
of our facilities worldwide, and help our suppliers in China and everywhere around  
the world make the same transition to clean energy as we have.

3

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015We’re working to protect or create up to a million acres of responsibly managed forest.Our work is led by Lisa Jackson, Apple’s Vice President of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives, reporting directly to CEO Tim Cook. The Office of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives works with teams across Apple to set strategy, engage stakeholders, and com-municate progress. Our integrated approach means that decisions about Apple values, including environment, are reviewed and sup-ported at the highest levels of the company. 1.5billion

In February 2016, we issued a US$1.5 billion 
green bond, the first ever by a U.S. tech  
company. The green bond proceeds are  
dedicated to financing environmental  
projects—because environmental respon-
sibility is core to our business.

We’re as committed as ever to conserving precious resources. In 2015, we diverted more 
than 89 million pounds of e-waste from landfills. And more recently, we introduced 
Liam, a line of robots that can disassemble an iPhone every 11 seconds and sort its  
high-quality components so they can be recycled, reducing the need to mine those 
resources from the earth. It’s an experiment in recycling technology, and we hope this 
kind of thinking will inspire others.

We’re also making strides in our efforts to preserve working forests, which, when  
managed properly, can be important renewable resources. Last year, over 99 percent of 
our product packaging came from paper that was recycled or sourced from sustainably 
managed forests. We’re also partnering with The Conservation Fund to protect sustain-
ably managed working forests in the United States, and with World Wildlife Fund to 
transition forests into responsible management in China.

For years, we’ve led the electronics industry in removing toxins such as arsenic, PVC, 
brominated flame retardants, and phthalates from our products. Many toxins are 
restricted not only in the products themselves but also in the manufacturing process, 
because we are committed to the people who make, use, and recycle our products. 
This past year, we started a Full Material Disclosure program, which will show us the 
chemical composition of every material in every component of our products so we  
can understand their effect on our health and on the environment. 

We are working every day to leave the world better than we found it. We know we 
have a long way to go, and a lot of work ahead of us. We are committed to increasing 
openness in our work and welcome you to join us on our journey. 

4

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Climate Change

93%

Currently, 93 percent of our facilities  
worldwide run on renewable energy.

Climate change is real. So is what we’re doing 
about it.
In 2015, 93 percent of our energy came from renewable sources. And we’re constantly 
looking for ways to get to 100 percent. In Singapore, we’re powering our facilities  
with a 32-megawatt solar project spread over more than 800 rooftops. In China, we’re 
adding 170 megawatts of solar to begin offsetting the energy used to make our  
products. And our data centers around the world run on 100 percent clean energy  
and power billions of iMessages, answers from Siri, and song downloads from iTunes.

Carbon Footprint

A more complex carbon footprint requires 
more inventive solutions.

131.2

137.2

126.7

124.1

122.1

114.2

When we measure our carbon footprint, we include hundreds of suppliers, millions of 
customers, and hundreds of millions of devices. And we’re always looking for ways to 
make the biggest difference in five major areas: manufacturing, product use, facilities, 
transportation, and recycling.

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

CO2e Emissions per Product (kg) 
We’ve decreased carbon emissions per  
product every  year since 2011.

We design each generation of our products to be as energy efficient as possible.  
We’re sourcing lower-carbon materials to make our devices, and we’re partnering  
with suppliers to add clean energy to their facilities. We produce and procure clean, 
renewable energy to power 93 percent of our offices, retail stores, and data centers 
around the world, which has lowered emissions from our facilities to 1 percent of  
our comprehensive carbon footprint. We’re also adjusting our recycling practices  
and rethinking our shipping strategies.

5

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015The Singapore solar project is the first distributed utility-scale installation in the country and is spread over hundreds of rooftops.Our 2015 carbon footprint 

38,400,000

metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions

77%

Manufacturing

17%

Product Usage

1%

Facilities

4%

Transportation

1%

Recycling

Manufacturing

Manufacturing a smaller footprint. 

How we make our products is the largest piece of our carbon footprint. We’ve  
identified two areas where we can dramatically reduce our impact—raw materials  
production and electricity used in manufacturing. 

Partnering with suppliers to reduce emissions. 

The electricity we use in our supply chain to process raw materials, make parts, and 
assemble our products is the single biggest source of our carbon footprint—over  
60 percent of our manufacturing emissions. So in 2015, we created programs to help 
our partners around the world reduce their energy use, power their facilities with  
clean energy, and build high-quality renewable energy projects.

We started engaging directly with suppliers in 2015 to assess their energy use with 
detailed energy audits. We work together to find ways to reduce energy use—replacing 
outdated or inefficient heating, cooling, and lighting systems; repairing compressed air 
leaks; and recovering waste heat. Through the process, we aim to promote continual 
improvement; build technical capabilities; and increase awareness of the environmental 
and financial benefits of energy efficiency.

We conducted 13 energy audits at supplier facilities in China, Taiwan, and Japan  
last year, identifying more than US$32 million in annual savings opportunities. This 
corresponds to reductions of approximately 224 million kilowatt-hours of electricity 
and 269,000 million British thermal units of fuel. From these identified improvements, 
suppliers have already reduced over 18 million kilowatt-hours of electricity, avoiding 
13,800 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e).1 We are continuing to expand 
the program for even greater impact.

Our efforts go beyond energy efficiency to spur the development and procurement  
of renewable energy within our supply chain. We’re building 200 megawatts of solar in 
China, starting with a 170-megawatt solar project in Inner Mongolia, to begin offsetting 
our manufacturing emissions. We’re also working with suppliers to install more than 
4 gigawatts of new clean energy worldwide, including 2 gigawatts in China by 2020. 
Our 4 gigawatts of clean energy projects will avoid over 30 million metric tons of  
carbon pollution, equivalent to taking over 6 million cars off the road for one year.2

6

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015The transition to renewable energy can be highly technical. It often requires compli-
cated deal structures across many regions with their own regulatory requirements. 
Apple is experienced in sourcing and building renewable energy—quickly and at a 
high standard across the globe—so we are working with our suppliers to help them 
overcome challenges. We know that, with some hard work and collaboration, suppliers 
can reduce their own carbon footprint through the development of high-quality and 
cost-effective renewable energy projects. As part of Apple’s industry-leading program, 
over the next two years, Foxconn will install 400 megawatts of solar to cover the  
energy use of its iPhone final production facility in Zhengzhou, China.

Lowering our carbon emissions by focusing 
on aluminum.

We sell millions and millions of phones. So making even small adjustments to the  
production of iPhone can have a big impact. We discovered that changing how  
we make the aluminum enclosure could lower our carbon footprint. We prioritized  
aluminum that was smelted using hydroelectricity rather than fossil fuels. And we 
reengineered our manufacturing process to reincorporate the scrap aluminum. As  
a result, we cut the carbon footprint associated with the aluminum enclosure of 
iPhone 6s in half compared with the previous generation. And we’re looking for new 
ways to use more carbon-efficient aluminum across all of our products.

iPhone 6

iPhone 6s

The carbon footprint of iPhone 6s  
aluminum enclosure is half that of  
the previous generation.

7

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Product Usage

Your energy use is our energy use. 

All of the energy it takes to run your device—from the time you open the box to the 
day it’s recycled—is added to our carbon footprint. We even include the energy it 
takes to charge your device, which usually comes from carbon-intensive sources such 
as coal or gas. So we’re always developing new ways to make our products as efficient 
as possible. For example, the Mac operating system puts the hard drive to sleep and 
runs processors in an ultralow power mode when you’re not hard at work. It can even 
save energy when the screen is static and between keystrokes when you type.

MacBook Air consumes 52 percent less energy than the original model. Mac mini 
consumes 40 percent less power when idle than the previous generation. Apple TV 
consumes 90 percent less energy than the first generation. And you can charge your 
iPhone 6s once a day for a year for only 53 cents.3 In fact, since 2008 we’ve reduced 
the average total power consumed by Apple products by 64 percent, bringing down 
our overall carbon footprint and your electricity bill at the same time.4

0.5w 

Power consumed by the MacBook in 
sleep mode, the lowest of any Mac.

7x

Mac mini exceeds ENERGY STAR  
requirements by up to seven times.

97%

The power used by the iMac in sleep mode 
was reduced 97 percent compared with the  
first-generation iMac. 

The cost to charge the battery of an 
iPhone 6s once a day in the United States  
is 53¢ per year.3

8

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Our data centers run on 100 percent renewable 
energy. Which means every time you send an 
iMessage, download a song from iTunes, or ask 
Siri a question, the energy Apple uses doesn’t 
contribute to climate change.

Go ahead, ask Siri all the questions you want.
Every time you send an iMessage, make a FaceTime call, ask Siri a question, download  
a song, or share a photo, it takes energy. And we hold ourselves responsible for that 
energy, not you. We’re proud to say that all those tasks are handled by Apple data  
servers running on 100 percent renewable energy. When we need a little extra juice, we 
work with third-party data centers. Even though we don’t own them, and share them 
with other companies, we still include them in our renewable energy goals. So we’re 
working with these providers to get them to 100 percent renewable energy, too. All  
told, in 2014 our data centers avoided 150,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions. And in  
2015, that number grew to 187,000 metric tons. 

Facilities

We use the power of the sun, wind, and water 
to power our lights, servers, and coffeemakers.

We’re constantly finding ways to be more energy efficient and working toward our goal 
of covering 100 percent of the electricity use of our global facilities—data centers, corpo-
rate offices, and more than 475 Apple Retail Stores—with 100 percent renewable energy. 
As of January 2016, we’re at 93 percent worldwide. And in 23 countries, including the 
United States, the United Kingdom, China, and Australia, we’re at 100 percent. For exam-
ple, we connected 40 megawatts of new solar energy to China’s national grid, producing 
more than enough electricity for all of Apple’s offices and retail stores in China. Apple 
is one of the largest end-users of solar power in the world. As of March 2016, we have 
announced 521 megawatts of solar projects—the majority of these projects are Apple-
owned, with 162 megawatts undertaken as part of Power Purchase Agreements.

9

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015i

l

t
n
e
a
v
u
q
e
e
2
O
C
s
n
o
t

c
i
r
t
e
m

In fiscal year 2015, by using renewable energy in Apple facilities, we avoided 
335,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions from entering the atmosphere, the equivalent 
of 359,828,142 pounds of coal not burned.2 Sourcing renewable landfill biogas to 
power our fuel cells avoided an additional 27,000 metrics tons of CO2e in fiscal year 
2015. Altogether, since fiscal year 2011, we have reduced carbon emissions from Apple 
facilities by 64 percent—avoiding over 1 million metric tons of CO2e from entering  
the atmosphere. 

Apple Scopes 1 & 2 Building Emissions*

450,000

400,000

350,000

300,000

250,000

200,000

150,000

100,000

50,000

0

Avoided Emissions
Emissions prevented 
through Apple’s use of 
renewable energy

Apple Emissions
Net emissions after 
accounting for Apple’s 
renewable energy program

FY11

FY12

FY13

FY14**

FY15

   *Building emissions refers to emissions from natural gas and electricity at corporate offices, data centers, and retail stores. 
**  In fiscal year 2014, Apple owned a facility in Mesa, AZ, that was operated by a supplier, which had default grid emissions of 151,279 
tons CO2e and effective emissions of 0 tons CO2e due to the use of 100 percent renewable energy. It was removed from operation 
in fiscal year 2015 and is not shown on this chart.

The cleanest energy is the energy you  
never use.

We’ve made energy efficiency a priority across all of our facilities, seeing energy  
savings of 25 percent or more in the buildings assessed. We have completed extensive 
energy efficiency projects at our corporate headquarters in Cupertino, California, and 
the surrounding Santa Clara Valley, where we operate more than 100 buildings, some 
of which we’ve called home for more than 20 years. As buildings age, and as our  
working needs have changed, we’ve undertaken aggressive programs to improve the 
comfort and function of our facilities, all the while ensuring they require less energy.

Improvements made during the past five years now save over 39 million kilowatt-hours 
a year—equivalent to the output of a typical 20-megawatt solar photovoltaic (PV) array. 
The efficiency improvements include upgrading to LED lighting, retro-commissioning 
building controls, and upgrading heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems. 
When designing new buildings, we optimize energy efficiency through use of high-
efficiency lighting and heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems and through 
careful selection of windows, insulation, shading, and roofing materials to reduce  
heating and air-conditioning loads.

10

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015 
 
 
Our Maiden, North Carolina data center is  
powered by our biogas fuel cells and three  
solar arrays.

100 percent of our data centers run on  
100 percent renewable energy.

Our data centers are built with the environment in mind, often including innovative 
energy efficiency measures. In fact, three of our data centers—in North Carolina, Oregon, 
and Nevada—earned Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum 
certification from the U.S. Green Building Council, the highest level possible.

Our data centers have been 100 percent renewable since 2013. And we’re continuing  
to find innovative ways to bring renewable energy projects to the places where we  
consume a lot of energy. For example, we recently partnered with the local utility,  
Duke Energy, to develop a green energy tariff—Duke Energy’s Green Source Rider 
Program. This program allowed us to co-develop five solar PV projects in North Carolina, 
the first of which came online in October 2015. For more information about Apple’s  
industry-leading efforts to supply our data centers with 100 percent renewable energy, 
see Appendix B.

Innovating on rooftops in Singapore.

Singapore is so densely populated that there’s no space on the ground for a large-scale 
solar project. So we designed an entirely new solution. We worked with local renewable 
energy provider Sunseap to source clean energy from roughly 32 megawatts of solar 
panels on more than 800 rooftops in the city. This first-of-its-kind project will produce 
enough energy to run all our Singapore offices and our part of the shared data center 
that we use for extra computing capacity.

To further advance the renewable energy market in Singapore and to ensure account-
ability and traceability of our generation, Apple worked closely with APX (a renewable 
energy tracking software developer) and other key partners to develop a regional 
renewable energy tracking system, similar to those in North America and Europe. Apple 
is using the tracking system now and soon it will be opened to renewable energy  
generators and purchasers in Singapore and elsewhere in Asia.

We’re powering 97 percent of our Apple  
Stores with renewable energy. That’s almost 
good enough.

As of April 2016, we are powering 463 Apple Stores in 13 countries with 100 percent 
renewable energy. Our preferred method is to generate renewable energy from Apple-
created projects to cover our stores’ electricity use. For many of our other retail stores, 
we purchase renewable energy from third-party providers. And where local regulations 
don’t allow these options, we participate in utility green tariff programs, collaborate with 
landlords to purchase renewable energy on our behalf, or procure renewable energy 
certificates that meet strict verification standards.

11

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Our renewable energy strategy

1. Energy Efficiency

2. Renewable Energy

An important first step in managing 
energy use is to ensure our facilities use 
as little as possible. That’s why we design 
them for maximum energy efficiency, 
and regularly audit their energy use to 
identify further opportunities for energy 
optimization.

Renewable Energy Generation. Where feasible, we produce our own renewable energy 
by building our own solar arrays, biogas fuel cells, and micro-hydro generation systems.

Renewable Energy Investments. Where it’s not feasible to produce our own, we  
purchase renewable energy, investing in local and newer projects that follow our 
robust renewable energy sourcing principles. 

Grid-Purchased Renewable Energy. In cases where we aren’t able to purchase renew-
able energy in this way due to local regulations, Apple purchases renewable energy 
credits (RECs). We apply the same rigor here as for our other grid-purchased renewables, 
and we also register and retire these RECs in certified tracking systems. When Apple 
acquires RECs, we require that they are Green-e Energy certified and come from the 
same region—and preferably the same state—as the Apple facility they support.

Wind

Water

Biogas Fuel Cell

Geothermal

Solar

Our renewable energy sourcing principles. 

We encounter many legal and regulatory frameworks around the world that constrain our renewable energy supply options. In each 
location, we endeavor to choose the strongest approach available to us as defined by three guiding principles:

Displacement. We seek to displace the more polluting forms of energy in the same electric grid region in which we operate—by  
putting into the grid an amount of renewable energy equal to the amount of energy taken from the grid by our facilities.

Additionality. We strive to create new clean energy that adds to the energy sources already delivering to the grid. This generally 
means participating in renewable energy projects that would not have been built without Apple’s involvement. We make sure that 
the energy we count toward our goals is not counted toward regulatory obligations that utilities must meet, such as the Renewable 
Portfolio Standards in many states.

Accountability. We apply rigor in measuring and tracking our energy supply resources, and use third-party registries such as WREGIS 
and NC-RETS, certification programs such as Green-e Energy, and contractual provisions to ensure that all renewable energy supplied 
to Apple is supplied only to Apple. When needed, we work with industry partners and governmental entities to create such systems.

Your grid is our grid.

When it is not feasible to power our facilities with onsite renewable energy, we match our load with renewable energy generated by 
either Apple-owned projects or third-party projects. We put the clean energy we generate onto the local grid, displacing the more 
polluting forms of energy.

The best way to think about it is like a bank: You can deposit $20 in one bank branch, then go to another branch and withdraw $20. 
Renewable energy works in a similar way. And Apple’s renewable energy approach goes a step further to make sure we “deposit”  
on the same grid as the energy we are “withdrawing.”

12

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015We are also changing how we design our stores to be better for the planet. For example, 
our latest store design is 40 percent more energy efficient and uses 30 percent less 
water than our previous design. We’re also bringing the outside in, through mixed-
mode natural ventilation and biophilic design, where available and appropriate. In late 
2015, our Mall of the Emirates store in Dubai received LEED Platinum certification. 

Home green home. 

The new Apple campus in Cupertino will be the most energy-efficient building of its 
kind. We’re recycling or reusing over 95 percent of the material from the demolished 
buildings at the site, by finding ways to repurpose virtually every piece of concrete, 
glass, and steel.

The building will be powered by 100 percent renewable energy, generated by 4 mega-
watts of baseload biogas fuel cells and 16 megawatts of rooftop solar—one of the  
largest onsite corporate solar energy installations in the world. When additional energy 
is needed, it will come from a 130-megawatt solar project in Monterey County thanks 
to Apple’s power purchase agreement with First Solar. The site is designed as a micro-
grid—which allows Apple to disconnect from the local grid and power the campus 
autonomously when grid power goes down, providing energy resiliency. To support  
the micro-grid design, the onsite solar energy production will be augmented with  
biogas fuel cells and battery storage. And air will flow freely between the inside and  
outside of the building, providing natural ventilation for 75 percent of the year, with 
highly efficient radiant heating and cooling the remainder of the year. 

The building itself is only part of the story. About 80 percent of the site will be open 
space, populated by more than 8000 trees, which includes over 7000 newly planted 
shade and fruit trees. Virtually all plants used throughout the landscape are drought-
tolerant to minimize freshwater use. We’re also reclaiming as much rainwater as we can, 
and 157,000 gallons of recycled water from the city of Sunnyvale’s recycling facility will 
be used for the majority of our landscaping water needs at the new campus. By invest-
ing in recycled water, we are helping to ease the demand for freshwater in Cupertino.

13

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Our Mall of the Emirates store in Dubai was designed with environmental features that earned the building LEED Platinum certification from the U.S. Green Building Council.Getting to and from the new campus will be greener, too. We’re expanding our 
commute alternatives program by 20 percent. This means that over a third of 
our employees in the area can commute to our existing and new campuses using 
our biofuel buses, public transit, bicycles, carpools, and their own two feet. And for 
drivers, we’ll have over 1000 electric vehicle charging stations. When completed, 
Apple Campus 2 will be an ever-present reminder of our commitment to sustainability 
and an example of what every corporate campus can be.

8000

The site will be populated by over  
8000 trees, including more than 7000  
newly planted shade and fruit trees.

100%

Apple Campus 2 will be powered by  
100 percent renewable energy.

We’re lessening our impact when we  
commute or hit the road. 

As we shrink the carbon footprint of Apple’s facilities, we’re also continuing to  
look for ways to reduce carbon emissions from business fleet vehicles, employee  
commute, and business travel. Those emissions grew in fiscal year 2015 primarily 
because our employee count increased by 14 percent in the same period, and  
because long-distance business travel increased. We offer our United States  
employees a transit subsidy of up to US$100 per month, and at our Cupertino  
and surrounding Santa Clara Valley campus, we offer free coach buses to commute  
to and from our corporate offices. In fiscal year 2015, use of these coach buses 
increased by close to 19 percent. And we’re seeing the difference this is making: In  
fiscal year 2015, our emissions per employee dropped for the fourth year in a row;  
they have decreased by close to 30 percent since fiscal year 2012. And to encourage 
electric vehicle use, we also offer our employees over 550 electric vehicle charging 
ports, at no cost—an increase of 67 percent compared to last year—and we continue 
to add more to meet increased demand.

Travel Emissions

180,000

135,000

90,000

45,000

e
2
O
C
s
n
o
t

c
i
r
t
e
m

0

FY12

FY13

FY14

FY15

Travel Emissions per Employee

l

e
e
y
o
p
m
e
/
e
2
O
C
s
n
o
t

c
i
r
t
e
m

1.80

1.35

.90

.45

0

FY12

FY13

FY14

FY15

Business Fleet Vehicles (Scope 1)
Employee Commute (Scope 3)
Business Travel (Scope 3)

14

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015 
 
 
 
We’re participating in the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s SmartWay Program to 
find more ways to improve fuel efficiency 
and reduce greenhouse gases and air pollu-
tion from the transportation supply chain.

Transportation

Reducing our carbon emissions by air and sea. 

Transporting hundreds of millions of products uses a lot of energy. Our logistics team  
is focused on reducing our carbon footprint in this area. That includes looking for 
opportunities to make air and ocean shipping more efficient so they use less fuel.  
And because we’re working to make our devices lighter and the packaging smaller, 
we’re cutting down on emissions no matter how our products are delivered.

We are also looking at ways beyond just shipping to reduce our product transportation 
impacts—like our boxes. We’re reviewing our box sizing, material selection, recycled 
content, and even our packing slips, to see where we can be more material efficient. We 
use distribution centers across the world to act as transportation hubs for our products. 
While we don’t own these facilities, we believe they should have as small a footprint as 
possible. So we’re collecting data on their energy use, carbon emissions, waste genera-
tion, and waste diversion from landfill, to identify where there may be opportunities  
for improvement.

Recycling

Recycling counts toward our footprint, too. 

Unlike many of our competitors, we include all the energy used to recycle our products 
in our carbon footprint. So whenever possible, we recycle our products in the region 
where they’re collected, reducing the carbon emissions associated with shipping. When 
we have to ship, we do it responsibly. Because we work closely with all our recyclers  
and with vetted facilities, nothing is dumped unsafely in developing countries, which is 
a common problem in our industry.

Recycling is also good for reducing global carbon emissions. Fewer carbon emissions 
are created by recycling materials such as aluminum than by mining and smelting  
new materials. Whoever uses the recycled material can count the carbon savings 
against their footprint, so we don’t double-count it against ours. 

15

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Resources

We designed a line of robots that can  
take apart up to 1.2 million phones a year. 
Meet Liam.

Apple Renew
Recycle your Apple device at any Apple Store 
or request a prepaid shipping label online 
and send it to us. 

Learn more >

Resources

We can’t manufacture natural resources. So 
we invent ways to make the most of them.

We want to make sure we’re protecting and creating more sustainable forest than 
we’re using. It’s part of our larger goal to minimize the materials we take from the 
earth. We’re measuring our water footprint and finding ways to reduce or reuse water 
wherever we can. And none of the waste from any of our iPhone and Apple Watch final 
assembly sites ends up in a landfill.5 We also created Apple Renew—a program that 
lets you recycle any Apple device at an Apple Store. 

Reuse & Recycling

One of the best ways to use a resource is to 
reuse it.

We work hard to keep electronic devices out of landfills so that the precious resources 
they contain can be reused. And we want to ensure that these devices are recycled 
properly so they don’t pose a threat to human health or the environment. That’s why 
we’ve developed recycling collection events, take-back initiatives, and efforts like Apple 
Renew, a global program that lets you bring used Apple devices to any Apple Store 
for reuse or responsible recycling. We’re also working with over 160 recyclers around 
the world, whose facilities we hold to rigorous standards of environmental compliance, 
health and safety, and social responsibility. Through our efforts, we’ve kept more than 
597 million pounds of equipment out of landfills since 1994. In 2015, we collected nearly 
90 million pounds of e-waste through our recycling programs. That’s 71 percent of the 
total weight of the products we sold seven years earlier.

16

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015 Liam is a line of robots that disassembles iPhone 6 into individual components, making it easier to recover finite resources such as aluminum, gold, and cobalt.Amount of material recovered for reuse through  
take-back initiatives in 2015

61,357,800lbs

Steel  23,101,000

Plastics 13,422,360

Glass 11,945,680

Aluminum 4,518,200

Copper 2,953,360

Cobalt 189,544

Nickel 39,672

Lead 44,080

Zinc 130,036

Tin 4408

Silver 6612

Gold 2204

We also see a huge opportunity to improve the way we reclaim finite resources  
from our products. Existing recycling techniques, like shredding, only recover a few 
kinds of materials and often diminish their quality. So we invented Liam, a line of 
robots designed to disassemble 1.2 million phones a year, sorting all their high-quality 
components and reducing the need to mine more resources from the earth. Liam  
prototypes are operating in California and the Netherlands. It’s an experiment in recy-
cling technology, and we hope this kind of thinking will inspire others in our industry.

Additionally, we’re committed to making sure all the waste created by our final assem-
bly facilities and by us is reused, recycled, composted, or, when necessary, converted 
into energy. It’s an ambitious goal that requires collaboration among multiple Apple 
teams, local governments, and specialty recyclers, but we’ve already seen great success. 
In 2015, our facility in Cork, Ireland, was the first outside North America to receive UL’s 
Zero Waste to Landfill validation. In 2016, our final assembly sites, Foxconn Guanlan and 
Foxconn Taiyuan, were the first to receive this validation in China, and all our remaining 
iPhone and Apple Watch final assembly sites are on track to do the same before 2017.5 
And most recently, all our stores worldwide have initiated zero waste programs.

We found that our final assembly supplier facilities were already diverting on aver-
age 70 percent of the waste generated from manufacturing, cafeterias, and employee 
support facilities. The challenge was to address the remaining 30 percent—the small, 
low- or no-value, mixed waste materials that most recyclers will not accept. We worked 
closely with our suppliers to find innovative ways to reduce, recycle, eliminate, or incin-
erate this waste for energy recovery. For example, at many of our iPhone and Apple 
Watch final assembly facilities, we implemented waste sorting on the line to separate 
previously landfilled recyclable waste. We also implemented a component tray reuse 
program for iPhone, allowing single-use trays to flow through the supply chain mul-
tiple times. At other sites, suppliers established waste reduction campaigns and worked 
with local recyclers to process materials not previously accepted. In response to this 
program, all iPhone and Apple Watch final assembly suppliers now have “zero waste” 
or “green” teams to support this program and other environmental improvements.

At our corporate offices and retail stores, wherever possible we’ve created robust  
recycling and composting programs to minimize the environmental impact of the 
waste we produce. In fiscal year 2015, we generated approximately 13.1 million pounds 
of waste, and diverted over 22.5 million pounds of materials from landfill through  
recycling and composting. Our rate of landfill diversion was 63 percent, compared  
with 68 percent in fiscal year 2014. We are working to improve our landfill diversion rate 
through a variety of actions, including expanding composting at our corporate  
campuses, and initiating zero waste at our more than 470 retail stores. 

17

Landfill Diversion Rate for 
Office Waste

100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

2012

2013

2014

2015

Waste, recycling, and compost data is  
collected or estimated for all Apple facilities, 
including Apple Retail Stores.

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Apple disposes of hazardous waste responsibly. We complete regular audits of the 
Transportation, Disposal, and Storage Facilities (TSDF), where the hazardous waste 
is ultimately sent to be treated, incinerated, or recycled. Only facilities we audit and 
approve are allowed to accept and treat the hazardous waste we generate, which was 
1 million pounds in fiscal year 2015 (mostly from research and development), or less 
than 8 percent of our total waste. We take this commitment seriously: If the TSDFs do 
not meet our strict standards for environment, health, safety, and waste management 
protocols, we switch facilities.

Water Conservation

Every molecule of water we use matters.

We’re constantly working to minimize our water use, so we monitor it within our  
cooling, landscaping, and sanitation processes and at our manufacturing sites. Then  
we develop targeted ways to reduce it. That includes creating cooling systems in our 
data centers that can reuse water up to 35 times. Or, for facilities in drier climates, 
installing intelligent irrigation systems that monitor weather and deploy water only 
when needed.

In 2015, we started collecting even more sophisticated data to help strengthen our con-
servation strategy. We’ve begun to measure the water it takes to manufacture each of 
our products, starting with iPhone. And now we’re identifying the high-, medium-, and 
low-scarcity areas where we use water, so we can focus our efforts where they matter 
most.

When we began to measure the water consumption footprint of iPhone, we learned 
that the story was similar to our product carbon footprint: the vast majority is during 
the manufacturing phase. This is primarily due to water consumed in energy pro-
duction, such as for oil extraction, distillation, and processing, as well as non-energy 
sources, such as process water consumed during metals processing. That’s why we are 
focusing on reducing water consumption in our supply chain, primarily through our 
supplier clean water and clean energy programs.

18

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Supplier Clean Water Program 

The water we use to manufacture our products has a direct effect on the communities 
in which we operate. We launched the Clean Water Program in 2013 to reduce the use  
of freshwater in our suppliers’ processes. Through 2015, 73 supplier facilities have joined 
our Clean Water Program—so we can help them improve their water and wastewater  
management systems, and reduce freshwater use. Through baseline assessments, per-
formance evaluations, technical support, and training, we helped these facilities save 
more than 3.8 billion gallons of freshwater. We’re also focused on reuse of treated waste-
water and have achieved an average wastewater reuse rate of 36 percent across these 
facilities. To ensure our efforts impact areas of greatest need, we prioritize  
facilities by evaluating water use data, reviewing product life cycle water consumption 
data to identify water-intensive component suppliers, and mapping that data to  
water-stressed geographies.

Supplier Clean Energy Program

Of the production water consumption, over 70 percent is associated with electricity 
generation needed to power our suppliers’ facilities. We know that water consumption 
varies by energy technology, and that renewable energy sources such as solar PV and 
wind energy are less water-intensive than conventional forms of energy such as natural 
gas, coal, or nuclear. Understanding this will help us make decisions, wherever possible, 
that result in both low-carbon and low-water sources of energy.

Conserving water where it matters most.

To meet the water needs of our offices, data centers, and retail stores across the  
world, Apple used 573 million gallons of water in fiscal year 2015, which represented 
a 16 percent increase from fiscal year 2014. This increase is driven primarily by growth, 
as well as increasing cooling needs at our data centers, and we are focusing our water 
usage reduction efforts on these facilities. 

Facilities Water Use

Corporate Water 
Use per Employee

We calculate our corporate water use for our data centers, retail stores, and corporate offices.

19

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015075150225300FY12FY13FY14FY15million gallonsFY12FY13FY14FY15Gallons per Employee7161715861835404Data CentersRetailCorporate    35x

We’ve created cooling systems for our data 
centers that can reuse water up to 35 times.

We have targeted water-conservation efforts at our corporate facilities, especially in 
Cupertino and surrounding Santa Clara Valley, California, where our headquarters are 
located—an area experiencing significant drought. We are installing high-definition 
flow sensors and sub-meters in our landscaping to better understand and reduce our 
irrigation needs. In 2015, we converted approximately 120,000 square feet of previously 
grass lawns to drought-tolerant landscape, translating to estimated water savings of up 
to 6 million gallons per year—enough water to fill nine Olympic-size swimming pools. 
We also planted throughout Apple’s headquarters over 167,000 California native plants, 
which are adapted to the local climate and require less water. To tackle water use in 
research and development facilities, we are beginning to retrofit laboratory equipment 
to recycle process water, already saving approximately 2.25 million gallons annually 
from two sites alone. As a result of these conservation efforts, our corporate water use 
per employee declined by 25 percent since fiscal year 2013. 

At our existing and planned data centers, we will be expanding our efforts to use  
non–water-intensive cooling technology, recycle water where we can, and reduce with-
drawals from the local watersheds. Our Maiden, North Carolina, data center employs  
an innovative cooling system that reuses water 35 times, resulting in a 20 percent reduc-
tion in overall water consumption at the data center. We are also building our newer 
data centers in locations that can rely heavily on outdoor air for cooling. 

The impact of water usage varies greatly depending on the watershed conditions 
where the resource is being used. So we’ve continued to look at more sophisticated 
ways to measure and analyze our water use. The profile of water use at our data  
centers, corporate offices, manufacturing sites, and retail stores differs significantly 
depending on the climate and nature of activities. We have begun to map those  
operations against indicators of water risk, which include water scarcity, business risk, 
and habitat and livelihood impact to the basins in which we operate. This analysis  
will help prioritize our conservation efforts across our operations. 

FY2015 Water Use by Risk Level

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

Low

Low-Medium

Medium-High

High

Data Centers
166M
Gallons of H2O

Corporate Oﬃces
296M
Gallons of H2O

Retail Stores
111M
Gallons of H2O

We mapped our water use to different levels of water risk (as defined by WRI’s Aqueduct tool) 
across the world to understand where we should be focusing our conservation efforts. Water risk 
takes into consideration water availability, water quality, and regulatory risks at a localized level.

Source: World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct, www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct

20

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Reducing carbon emissions helps the planet 
in more ways than one. 
Our move to 100 percent renewable energy has conserved a lot of water. That’s 
because traditional fossil-fuel sources of energy consume a substantial amount of 
water. Water is consumed during fuel extraction, refining and processing, and often 
during power generation. For example, cooling fossil fuel-based power plants requires 
large quantities of water. By contrast, many renewable energy generation technologies 
don’t rely on combustion processes, so they use much less or no water to generate 
electricity. 

In California alone, where the electricity our operations use is sourced from 100 percent 
renewable energy—primarily wind—we avoided over 135 million gallons of water  
consumption in fiscal year 2015. And globally, our use of 93 percent renewable energy 
avoided over 566 million gallons of water consumption in fiscal year 2015.6

Forestry 
We’re not just protecting forests.  
We’re protecting generations of them.

Forests provide wood fiber for the paper we use in our packaging. They also clean our 
air, purify our water, and shelter our wildlife. So we work hard to minimize our impact 
by sourcing paper responsibly and using it as efficiently as possible. But that’s not 
enough. The world’s forests still face widespread destruction due to illegal logging,  
poor management, and aggressive land development. That’s why we’re determined to 
protect and create enough responsibly managed forests around the world to cover all 
our packaging needs and produce fiber for generations.7

All our suppliers must adhere to our 
Apple Sustainable Fiber Specification.

Learn more > 

21

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015FY2015 Fiber Footprint

133,000

   metric tons

61%

Recycled
Fiber

39%

Sustainably Sourced
Virgin Fiber

<1%

Other

*Due to rounding, total does not add up to 100.
Our 2015 footprint captures all paper used 
to package and ship products, as well as all 
in-box papers and paper retail bags that we 
used for Apple Watch. It also accounts for fiber 
losses during the paper production process.

Note: Due to rounding, total of percentages doesn’t 
add up to 100. 

U.S. retail packaging of iPhone 6s is 20 percent 
lighter and consumes 34 percent less volume 
than the first-generation iPhone packaging. 

Retail packaging for iPad Pro uses a minimum 
of 38 percent post-consumer recycled content.

How we’re reducing our impact.

Using paper more efficiently.

We look for ways to make our packaging smaller, we’re creating technologies that  
use paper more efficiently, and we use recycled paper whenever we can. In fact, in  
fiscal year 2015, more than 60 percent of the paper used in our packaging was made  
of recycled wood fiber.

Sourcing virgin paper responsibly.

When we use virgin paper in our packaging, our suppliers must source it from sustain-
ably managed forests or controlled wood sources. And we conduct regular audits to 
ensure that they adhere to our specifications. In fiscal year 2015, over 99 percent of the 
virgin paper used in our packaging met these requirements.

Protecting sustainable forests.

We continue to protect and create sustainable working forests because, when properly 
managed, they can provide abundant resources for a long time. 

In partnership with The Conservation Fund, we’ve protected 36,000 acres of sustainable 
forest in North Carolina and Maine and responsibly harvested more than 13,000 metric 
tons of wood. The 3600-acre forest we’re protecting in North Carolina will connect to 
the 17,000-acre Green Swamp Preserve, improving biodiversity and connectivity for wild-
life in the area. A natural resource assessment commissioned by The Conservation Fund 
found six rare species,8 including the Venus flytrap (carnivorous plant), present in the 
Brunswick Forest. As of February 2016, The Conservation Fund had planted 185,000 trees 
across 300 acres, including 40 acres of native longleaf pine and Atlantic white cedar, 
which provide a home for the rare Hessel’s hairstreak butterfly. The property is currently 
being managed as a working forest under the standards of the Sustainable Forestry 
Initiative (SFI).  

In Maine, we’re protecting more than 32,400 acres of forest, which includes wetlands 
and upland forest that are important for numerous wildlife species in Maine’s iconic 
North Woods. This project adds to more than a million acres of conserved lands and 
interconnected forest habitat that stretch into Canada. The Conservation Fund is  
working with the Forest Society of Maine to better understand the presence and  
ecological significance of rare and threatened plants and animals. So far, investigations 
have identified two species of mussel, wood turtle, and the elusive Canada lynx on the 
property. 

The collective annual production from the Reed and Brunswick forests is equivalent 
to about 30 percent of the virgin fiber used in our product packaging, compared with 
nearly 50 percent in 2014.9 Our project with The Conservation Fund is just as productive 
as we originally estimated, but Apple’s fiber footprint has grown. That’s attributable to 
increased product sales, resulting in more packaging used, and an improved methodol-
ogy that now accounts for all Apple products, not just a subset. 

The 21.5-inch iMac retail packaging consumes 
53 percent less volume and weighs 35 percent 
less than the original 15-inch iMac packaging.

We remain committed to protecting—and creating—as much sustainable working  
forest as is needed to produce the paper in our product packaging.7 And we expect 
that our latest effort in China with World Wildlife Fund, our most ambitious yet, will  
get us significantly closer. 

22

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015The five-year WWF pilot project aims to transition up to 1 million acres of forest, across 
five southern provinces, into responsible management by 2020.10 WWF’s work has three 
primary components:

1.  Increase responsible management of working forests in China—by creating up to 

300,000 acres of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)–certified forests, and up to 700,000 
acres of forests under improved management.

2. Improve China’s policy framework to encourage responsible forest management. 

3. Establish long-term market incentives in China for responsibly sourced paper. 

Since launching the project in 2015, WWF has signed up forestry companies that are 
committed to certifying nearly 150,000 acres to the FSC standard and an additional 
190,000 acres under improved management. Once certified, these forests will make a 
major contribution toward Apple’s goal of protecting and creating enough responsibly 
managed forests around the world to cover all our packaging needs. If successful, this 
project can shift the dynamics of the world’s paper market in both the short and long 
term, and in the process protect some of the world’s most important forests.

Product Design

A durable device is a greener device.

When products can be used longer, fewer resources need to be extracted from the  
earth to make new ones. So we assess all our products in our Reliability Testing Lab, 
using custom, comprehensive measures. And we release regular software updates  

that keep our products current and reduce how often they need to be replaced. 

To ensure that it can stand up to repeated 
use, the MacBook keyboard is tested with 
millions of clicks.

23

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Safer Materials

Safer Materials

We have three really good reasons to remove 
toxins from our products. You, our workers, 
and the planet. 

For years, we’ve led the electronics industry in removing toxins from devices. This past 
year, we started a Full Material Disclosure program, which will show us the chemical 
composition of every material in every component of our products. It also makes us 
even better at reducing or removing toxins. And once we figure out how to remove a 
toxin from a device or a manufacturing process, we use extensive testing to make sure 
it stays out.

We’ve analyzed over 10,000 parts. And that’s 
just the beginning.

Our Full Material Disclosure program seeks to identify all the substances we use in all 
the parts we use. We’ve already looked at more than 10,000 individual components, 
and we get data on more parts every day. We assess the different chemicals in those 
components using 18 different criteria. This helps us understand their effect on our 
health and on the environment. If we do find an unacceptable risk, we then seek  
alternatives or ban the substance altogether. 

We start this process early in the design and manufacturing phases so we can take 
appropriate actions to remove or replace hazardous chemicals. In some cases, few 
replacements are readily available so we work with our suppliers to find substitutions—
or switch to another supplier that uses safer materials. If there is no replacement for  
the substance, we work with our design teams to explore how to eliminate the need 
for that substance. 

24

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015It took us four years to remove polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, from our power cords and 
headphone cables. We tested dozens of formulations until we finally found the right 
blend of durability, safety, and environmental performance in our PVC replacement 
materials: nonchlorinated and nonbrominated thermoplastic elastomers. 

The worst toxins and what we’ve done  
about them.

After we identify toxins in our products, we reduce them, remove them, or develop 
new materials that are safer. These efforts also remove toxins from our manufacturing 
and recycling processes, which protects workers and keeps pollutants out of the land, 
air, and water.

Beryllium
Found in copper alloys used to make  
connectors and springs. All new products  
are designed without the use of beryllium. 

Mercury
Eliminated in 2009. We use energy-efficient, 
mercury-free LEDs instead of mercury-based 
fluorescent lamps in all our displays.

Lead
We completely phased lead out of our  
display glass and solder in 2006.

Arsenic
Traditionally used in glass. Our display  
glass has been arsenic-free since 2008. 

PVC and Phthalates
Both are still used by other companies  
in power cords and headphone cables.  
We have replaced PVC and phthalates  
with thermoplastic elastomers.11

Brominated Flame Retardants (BFRs)
Eliminated from thousands of parts such as 
enclosures, circuit boards, and connectors 
in 2008. We use safer metal hydroxides and 
phosphorus compounds in their place. 

25

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015We double-check our work.

The standards we set for our suppliers go far beyond what’s required by law. Our 
toxicologists rigorously analyze the safety of materials our suppliers use by looking at 
data from our own Environmental Testing Lab. The lab runs tests such as inductively 
coupled plasma mass spectrometry, X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, laser-induced 
breakdown spectroscopy, and ion or gas chromatography. If we find an issue, we  
work with the supplier to correct it. Since creating our Cupertino Environmental 
Testing Lab in 2006, we’ve grown it to 20 times its original size, and have regularly 
updated it with state-of-the-art equipment. We’ve also been building out testing labs 
at our manufacturing facilities in China to test and validate products throughout the 
manufacturing process.

All our suppliers must adhere to our  
Apple Regulated Substances Specification.

Learn more >

We can do a lot. But we can’t do it alone.

We want insights and ideas from those who share our commitment to removing  
toxins. So, we formed our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board made up of some of 
the world’s leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics. They help us identify 
innovative ways to minimize or eliminate toxins from our supply chain. And we’re 
allowing the advisory board members to use our data to develop and publish research, 
which we hope will advance the use of safer chemistry, materials, and processes in  
all industries.

We also invite experts from around the world to meet with leaders at Apple and we 
seek out the best ideas and insights from top NGOs. In 2015, we worked with Ceres to 
convene a roundtable meeting with United States–based and international NGOs to 
gather feedback on our toxins work. By working with organizations that share Apple’s 
focus and commitment to the elimination of toxics, we believe that we will achieve 
better, faster results that will have greater impact across the world.

26

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Our Environmental Testing Lab in Cupertino, California, enables us to test products for compliance with our Regulated Substances Specification.We’re better together.

At Apple, we believe that innovation can happen anywhere and great ideas can  
come from anyone. That’s why we engage with diverse stakeholders. Regular dialogue 
with NGOs, university researchers, industry experts, investors, policy makers, and our 
customers provides us with a different lens through which to view our work. 

We engage to develop a better understanding of emerging issues, to gain additional 
expertise in key areas, and to identify potential partnerships for future projects. Through 
these formal and informal conversations, we can gather feedback that shapes our think-
ing and planning.

We approach stakeholder engagements strategically, working with organizations and 
associations to generate meaningful information exchanges. Some updates from fiscal 
year 2015 include:

•  Memberships, such as:

 – Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100, a global platform of companies and innovators 

focused on accelerating the transition to a circular economy.

 – Corporate Eco Forum, an organization that facilitates the exchange of best practices 
and the sharing of insights from business leaders across various sectors, with the  
goal of accelerating sustainable innovation. 

 – World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), which provides a 

forum to engage with like-minded organizations to identify pathways to a sustain-
able future for business, society, and the environment.

 – Advanced Energy Economy (AEE), an association working to support the long-term 
success of the advanced energy industry nationwide, to ensure that the energy we  
all use is secure, clean, and affordable. 

•  Our CEO, Tim Cook, sits on the Paulson Institute’s CEO Council for Sustainable 

Urbanization, working with other CEOs of top Chinese and Western companies to 
advance sustainability in China. 

•  We formed our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board, made up of some of the world’s 
leading toxicologists, researchers, and academics, to help us identify innovative ways 
to minimize or eliminate toxins from our supply chain.

•  We’re part of the Ceres Company Network, a coalition of companies and investors 

working together to integrate sustainability into their core strategies. In partnership 
with Ceres, we hosted a roundtable meeting with United States–based and interna-
tional NGOs with a focus on our safer-materials strategy.

•  Through our work with The Conservation Fund, we’re permanently protecting more 

than 36,000 acres of working forest in the eastern United States. 

•  Our project with World Wildlife Fund will significantly increase the amount of  

responsibly managed forest by protecting as many as 1 million acres across China.

27

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Appendix A

Apple’s Operations: Environmental Data

Facilities Environmental Key Performance Indicators (Page 29)

Scopes 1 & 2 Building Carbon Emissions (Pages 30–31)

Fiscal Year 2015 Natural Gas and Electricity Use (Page 32)

28

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Facilities Environmental Key Performance 
Indicators 

The following table provides an overview of environmental key performance indica-
tors relating to Apple’s facilities—our data centers, corporate offices that house nearly 
55,000 employees, and more than 475 Apple Retail Stores around the world. 

KPI

Unit

Greenhouse Gas  
Emissions

Energy Use

Scope 1 (effective)

Natural gas

Fleet vehicles

Scope 2 (effective)

Scope 3

Business travel

Employee commute

Electricity

U.S.

International

Natural gas

U.S.

International

metric tons CO2e

million kWh

million btu

2015

 28,100 

 19,3601

 8740 

 42,460 

 312,910 

 139,9402 

 172,970 

 996 

 831 

 166 

 851,660 

 794,830 

 56,830 

Fiscal Year

2014

 28,490 

 20,710 

 7780 

 63,210 

 259,130 

 110,940 

 148,190 

 839 

 7024 

 137 

2013

 29,300 

 22,090 

 7210 

 91,510 

 225,630 

 90,948 

 134,685 

 708 

590

118

 922,860 

 764,550 

840,490

82,370

676,630

87,920

2012

 21,220 

 14,300 

 6920 

 139,160 

 202,060 

 85,090 

 116,970 

6083

—

—

 304,000 

240,230

63,770

Energy Efficiency

Additional annual savings  
due to implemented energy  
efficiency measures since 2011

kWh/year

 6,711,510 

 4,470,180 

 14,405,580 

 7,653,190 

million btu/year

 72,410 

 34,420 

 193,480 

 379,350 

Renewable energy sourcing5

%

Renewable energy sourced 

million kWh

Emissions avoided as a result of  
renewable energy sourcing

metric tons CO2e

 93 

916

 87 

703

 73 

522

 60 

294

362,410

 282,990 

 213,770 

 118,090 

million gallons

pounds

573

166

111

296

494 

 113 

 103 

 278 

430 

 69 

 94 

 267 

 13,110,880 

 6,833,000 

 5,923,810 

 19,599,570 

 14,621,940 

 15,866,650 

 3,006,1706 

 1,002,300 

—6

—

 508,040 

 70,550 

%

63

68

73

345 

 57 

 71 

 217 

 4,850,160 

 11,464,020 

—

 123,460 

70

Renewable Energy

Water Use

Total

Data centers

Retail

Corporate

Landfilled

Recycled 

Waste Generation

Composted

Hazardous waste

Landfill diversion rate

Notes:   Apple’s fiscal year begins approximately October 1 each year.

Numbers are rounded.

 1 In fiscal year 2015, we adjusted our methodology to better reflect locations where natural gas is used. We estimate natural gas usage in offices and retail stores where we are not billed based 
on usage (e.g., leased office space or retail stores within malls). This more accurate methodology resulted in a decrease in emissions in fiscal year 2015. 

2In fiscal year 2015, we adjusted our methodology to reflect actual travel instead of booked travel. Using this more accurate methodology revealed overestimates for previous years.

3Only total electricity usage data was available for fiscal year 2012.

4 Not included in this figure is a facility in Mesa, Arizona, which Apple owned in fiscal year 2014, but was operated by a supplier. It generated 282 million kilowatt-hours of electricity— 
100 percent of which was covered by our renewable energy program. The facility was removed from operation in fiscal year 2015.

5 We calculate our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy on a calendar year basis. In calendar year 2015, we used 1048 million kilowatt-hours electricity and 977 million kilowatt-hours 
in renewable electricity.

6Prior to fiscal year 2015, composted quantities were reported as part of the “recycled” figure.

29

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2011

Location

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Fiscal Year 2012
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International
Totals

Fiscal Year 2013
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International
Totals

Scopes 1 & 2 Building Carbon Emissions 
(metric tons CO2e)

Scope 1

Scope 2

Default Utility Emissions*

Apple Emissions 
(incl. Renewable Energy)

Default Utility Emissions*

Apple Emissions  
(incl. Renewable Energy)

14,425
11,007
556
45
564

804
—
—
1449
0
0
0
2600
746
1854

17,025

13,160
10,949
560
59
237

715
32
—
609
146
146
0
0
2812
787
2025
16,118

15,211
12,231
509
83
337

743
50
390
868
19,360
19,360 
0
0
0
6158
3548
2610
40,729

12,656
9238
556
45
564

804
—
—
1449
0
0
0
2600
746
1854

15,256

11,343
9132
560
59
237

715
32
—
609
146
146
0
0
2812
787
2025
14,301

13,727
10,747
509
83
337

743
50
390
868
2201
2201
0
0
0
6158
3548
2610
22,086

82,183
39,428
7930
10,139
2141

4598
3243
280
14,424
51,651
22,663
28,988
65,769
—
—

199,603

84,611
39,457
6952
10,635
4265

4801
4946
1049
12,505
87,732
52,977
33,492
1263
83,285
—
—
255,628

85,354
43,116
4400
12,162
2463

5320
5826
7490
4578
123,855
75,836
36,959
9965
1095
77,425
44,606
32,819
286,634

59,516
39,428
0
0
2141

0
3243
280
14,424
28,988
0
28,988
65,769
—
—

154,273

48,215
25,450
0
0
4265

0
4946
1049
12,505
7664
0
7664
0
83,285
—
—
139,164

17,503
0
0
0
0

0
5826
7490
4187
0
0
0
0
0
74,002
44,606
29,397
91,505

30

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Fiscal Year 2014

Location

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International
Totals

Fiscal Year 2015
Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International
Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV
Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International
Totals

Default Utility Emissions*

16,716
14,310
411
148
115

1000
51
385
296
26,854
26,835
0
18
0
5355
2812
2543
48,924

16,960
14,792
369
233
121

892
0
117
435
24,543
24,530
0
13
0
3800
2269
1531
45,303

Scope 1

Scope 2

Apple Emissions 
(incl. Renewable Energy)
15,335
12,929
411
148
115

1000
51
385
296
18
0
0
18
0
5355
2812
2543
20,708

15,423
13,256
369
233
121

892
0
117
435
136
123
0
13
0
3800
2269
1531
19,359

Default Utility Emissions*

86,842
36,496
2516
15,149
2270

7678
6852
8577
7304
148,320
92,306
38,278
10,392
7344
82,770
45,041
37,729
317,932

106,134
42,074
3279
20,874
2715

6227
5310
9050
16,605
186,586
99,907
26,519
39,507
20,653
86,070
42,543
43,527
378,790

Apple Emissions 
(incl. Renewable Energy)
21,555
0
0
0
0

0
6852
8577
6126
0
0
0
0
0
41,658
11,036
30,662
63,213

19,564
0
0
0
0

0
3767
2201
13,596
0
0
0
0
0
22,893
0
22,893
42,457

Notes:   Apple’s fiscal year begins approximately October 1 each year.

Scope 1 emissions result from natural gas use for facilities, and gasoline use for fleet vehicles. As is typical, these emissions are tracked separately from our 100 percent renewable energy claim.

 Scope 2 emissions result from electricity use for facilities. In addition, in fiscal year 2014, Apple owned a facility in Mesa, Arizona, that was operated by a supplier, which had default grid emissions of 151,279 tons  
CO2e and effective emissions of 0 tons CO2e in fiscal year 2014. It was removed from operation in fiscal year 2015.

— = Energy source not yet online.

*Default Utility Emissions are based on utility-scale and regional default grid emission factors (using the most granular data set available).

31

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015 
 
 
 
Fiscal Year 2015 Natural Gas and Electricity Use
The chart below provides a detailed breakdown of fiscal year 2015 energy use, which is 
used to calculate our carbon emissions.

Fiscal Year 2015

Location

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Totals

Percent Renewable

Natural Gas

Electricity

Total Gas
(mmBTU)

Renewable Biogas
(mmBTU)

Total Electricity
(million kWh)

Renewable Electricity
(million kWh)

318,842
278,092
6928
4385
2290 

16,771
0
2197
8179

461,388
461,145
0
243
0

71,437
41,750
29,687

851,667

29,027
29,027
0
0
0

0
0
0
0

461,145
461,145
0
0
0

0
0
0

490,171

58%

348
217
13
40
7

14
12
11
34

455
218
137
54
46

194
99
95

997

315
217
13
40
7

14
5
8
11

455
218
137
54
46

146
99
47

916

92%

Note:    Apple uses third-party colocation facilities for additional data center capacity. In fiscal year 2015, these facilities used 143 million kilowatt-hours of electricity, of which 85 percent was covered by  

renewable energy (see Appendix B for additional energy and emissions information).

32

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Appendix B 

Data Center Energy Supplement

Maiden, North Carolina

On any given day, between 60 and 100 percent of our Maiden data center’s energy  
use is generated through 68 megawatts of Apple projects: two 20-megawatt solar 
arrays, an 18-megawatt solar array that came online in October 2015, and 10 megawatts 
of biogas fuel cells. In 2015, we took a new approach to support further growth at  
our Maiden data center: We partnered with the local utility, Duke Energy, to build five 
solar PV projects through Duke Energy’s Green Source Rider program. These solar PV 
projects, which began coming online in October 2015 to support our Maiden data  
center, were Duke’s first Green Source Rider projects to become operational. We 
worked with Duke Energy for several years to develop this green energy tariff option, 
which allowed Apple and Duke Energy to work together to develop new renewable 
energy projects. Apple’s Maiden data center was the first facility to begin benefiting 
from renewable energy through this program. The five projects have a combined peak 
capacity of 20 megawatts. All told, Apple’s data center will be supported by projects 
that generate 244 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year, which is equiva-
lent to the energy used by over 17,900 North Carolina homes.*

Among Maiden’s energy efficiency features is the use of outside air cooling through a 
waterside economizer during night and cool-weather hours, which, along with water 
storage, allows the chillers to be turned off more than 75 percent of the time.

Maiden, North Carolina—100% renewable since opening June 2010

Duke Energy Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Solar + Biogas Fuel Cells

Nuclear

Coal

Other

Renewable

2015 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

51% Solar PV Projects

33% Biogas Fuel Cells

16% NC GreenPower (80% solar)

<1%

99,907

2015 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

Actual fiscal year 2015 energy data

From Duke Energy Carolinas 2015 Statistical 
Supplement generation data

Resource Advisor generated utility emissions values (utility-specific data).

* Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2013 data:  
www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf.

36%

28%

36%

0

33

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Wind

Wind + Micro-Hydro

Newark, California

Our data center in Newark, California, is powered by 100 percent renewable energy. We 
hit this milestone in January 2013, when we began serving the data center with energy 
sourced primarily from California wind power. We’re acquiring this energy directly from 
the wholesale market through California’s Direct Access program. Late this year, when 
our 130-megawatt solar project in Monterey County, California, comes online, we’ll use 
Direct Access to supply power from that project directly to our data center as well as 
other Apple facilities in California.

Newark, California—100% renewable since January 2013

Pacific Gas & Electric Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Natural Gas

Nuclear

Other/Unspecified

Renewable

2015 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

24%

21%

21%

34%

26,519

www.energy.ca.gov/sb1305/labels/2014_labels/  
all_labels/Pacific_Gas_and_Electric_(PGandE).pdf

Bundled Grid (mostly wind)

Grid (mostly wind)

2015 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

Actual fiscal year 2015 energy data

63%

37%

0

Resource Advisor generated utility emissions values (utility-specific data).

Prineville, Oregon

To support our Prineville data center, we built our first two micro-hydro systems  
that harness the power of water flowing through local irrigation canals that have 
been operating for over 60 years. These micro-hydro projects will generate 12 million 
kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy a year. To supplement this micro-hydro gen-
eration, we’re able to directly access enough local wind energy to power the  
entire data center. 

Prineville, Oregon—100% renewable since opening May 2012

Pacific Power Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Coal

Natual Gas

Other

Renewable

Oregon Wind

Utility Green

Apple’s Micro-Hydro Projects

61%

13%

11%

15%

2015 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

39,507

2015 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

www.pacificpower.net/about/rr/ori.html   
from PowerContent—Large Non Residential

Actual fiscal year 2015 energy data

Resource Advisor generated utility emissions values (utility-specific data).

89%

1%

10%

0

34

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Reno, Nevada

Unlike competitive energy markets where we’ve located some of our data centers,  
the regulated electricity supply in Nevada did not offer a simple solution for us to  
create new renewable energy projects dedicated to our data center. So we created 
a partnership with the local utility, NV Energy, to develop our first renewable project: 
Fort Churchill Solar PV project. Apple designed, financed, and constructed the project, 
and NV Energy operates it and directs all the renewable energy it produces to our  
data center. The Fort Churchill Solar PV project uses a new kind of photovoltaic panel 
with curved mirrors that concentrate sunlight. The 20-megawatt array has an annual 
production capacity of over 43 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy. 

To facilitate further renewable development in Nevada, Apple worked with NV Energy 
and the Nevada utility commission to create a green energy option open to all com-
mercial customers that does not require the customer to fund project development 
upfront. Thanks to this new option, in late 2015 we announced our second Nevada 
solar array, a 50-megawatt project called Boulder City II that should come online by 
end of 2016. We’re proud that another Nevada data center operator has also used the 
new green energy option, twice.

Reno, Nevada—100% renewable since opening December 2012

NV Energy - North Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable Energy Use

Natural Gas

Coal

Other

Renewable

Apple’s Solar PV Projects

Other Solar PV

Local Geothermal

53%

27%

<1%

20%

Solar + Geothermal

2015 Default Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

20,653

2015 Effective Emissions 
(mtons CO2e/year

www.nvenergy.com/bill_inserts/2016/Power_ 
Content_Insert_NVE-North_2016-01.pdfl

Actual fiscal year 2015 energy data

Resource Advisor generated utility emissions values (utility-specific data).

29%

51%

20%

0

Athenry, Ireland

Our data center in County Galway, Ireland, will be built on recovered land that was  
previously used for commercial lumber. It will provide a forested outdoor education 
space for local schools and a walking trail for the community. When it opens in 2017, 
the data center will run on 100 percent clean, renewable energy, and will be cooled  
by natural ventilation, rather than mechanical air-conditioning, by taking advantage  
of the mild Irish climate.

Ireland has one of the strongest coastal wave energy resources of anywhere in the 
world. Apple has partnered with the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland to sup-
port innovative new ways of capturing wave energy and converting it to renewable 
electricity, with Apple agreeing to use electricity generated from new wave energy 
technologies to support the Athenry data center.

35

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Viborg, Denmark

In 2017, we’ll open a new data center running on 100 percent renewable energy in 
Denmark’s central Jutland region. Due to its proximity to one of Denmark’s largest 
electrical substations, the data center won’t require any back-up generators, which 
typically run on diesel and require periodic testing and burning of fuel. The facility is 
designed to capture excess heat from its equipment and conduct it into the local  
district heating system to help warm homes in the community. Denmark has a long 
tradition of biomass energy generation from agricultural waste products.

Our colocated facilities 

The vast majority of our online services are provided by our own data centers; however, 
we also use third-party colocation facilities for additional data center capacity. While 
we don’t own these shared facilities and use only a portion of their total capacity, we 
include our portion of their energy use in our renewable energy goals. Over 85 percent 
of our power for colocated facilities is matched with renewable energy generated 
within the same state for facilities in the United States, or within the same country for 
those around the world. And we will keep working with collocated suppliers to get to 
100 percent around the world, including in regions where renewable energy markets 
are underdeveloped. 

Furthermore, we worked with one of our main suppliers of colocated services to help 
it develop the capability to provide renewable energy solutions to its customers. This 
partnership serves to advance the renewable energy program of both Apple and those 
of other companies that use this colocation provider.

Beyond the use of our own data centers and colocated facilities, we also use third- 
party computing services to support some of our on-demand cloud storage-based  
services. We encourage and work with these suppliers to adopt a 100 percent  
renewable energy strategy for their energy use.

Energy Use and Emissions at Apple’s Colocated Facilities

Energy Use
(kWh)

Renewable  
Energy
(kWh)

Default Utility  
Emissions
(metric tons CO2e)

Apple’s Emissions - 
including  
renewable energy
(metric tons CO2e)

%  
Renewable 
Energy

FY2011

42,524

0

12

FY2012

38,552,271

1,471,680

17,220

FY2013

79,462,860

46,966,891

31,757

FY2014

108,659,693

88,553,380

44,338

FY2015

142,615,026

121,086,061

60,495

12

16,543

14,493

10,976

12,740

0%

4%

59%

81%

85%

Regional Energy Use at Apple’s Colocated Facilities (Fiscal Year 2015)

Renewable Energy
(kWh)

%  
Renewable Energy

U.S.

Europe

APAC

Other

Energy Use
(kWh)

75,671,765

36,595,776

29,911,090

436,395

75,671,765

36,595,776

8,818,520

0

FY2015 TOTAL

142,615,026

121,086,061

100%

100%

29%

0%

85%

36

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Appendix C

Assurance and Review Statements

Facilities energy, carbon, waste, and water data (Pages 38–40) 
(Bureau Veritas)

Product life cycle carbon footprint (Pages 41–44) 
(Fraunhofer Institute)

Paper footprint (Pages 45–46) 
(Fraunhofer Institute)

37

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 

Introduction and objectives of work  

Bureau  Veritas  North  America,  Inc.  (BVNA)  was  engaged  by  Apple,  Inc.  (Apple)  to  conduct  an 
independent  assurance  of  select  environmental  data  reported  in  its  2015  environmental  report  (the 
Report).   This  Assurance  Statement  applies  to  the  related  information  included  within  the  scope  of 
work described below.  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple. 
The  overall  aim  of  this  process  is  to  provide  assurance  to  Apple’s  stakeholders  on  the  accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report.   

This information and  its presentation in the  Report are the sole responsibility  of the management of 
Apple.  BVNA was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the Report.  

Scope of Work  

Apple requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following:  

  Assurance of  select environmental data and information included in the Report for the fiscal 
year 2015 reporting period (September 28, 2014 through September 26, 2015), specifically, in 
accordance  with  Apple’s  definitions  and  World  Resources  Institute  (WRI)/World  Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  

o  Energy: Direct (Million Therms) and Indirect (Million kilowatt hours (mkWh)) 
o  Renewable Energy (mkWH) 
o  Water (Total withdrawal) 
o  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions: Direct Scope 1 emissions by weight, Indirect Scope 
2  emissions  by  weight,  Indirect  Scope  3  emissions  by  weight  (Employee  Commute  and 
Business Travel) 

o  Waste Quantities and Disposition 
o  Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 

collect, analyze, and review the environmental information reported;  

Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: 

  Text or other written statements associated with the Report 
  Activities outside the defined assurance period  

Methodology  

BVNA undertook the following activities:  

1.  Site visits to Apple facilities in  Cork, Ireland; London, United Kingdom; Seoul, South Korea; 

and Singapore; 

2.  Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 

3. 

Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple (10 individuals including employees and external 
contractors at the corporate level);  

4.  Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple;  

5.  Audit of environmental performance data presented in the Report, including a detailed review 

of a sample of data against source data; and 

6.  Review  of  Apple  information  systems  for  collection,  aggregation,  analysis  and  internal 

verification and review of environmental data.  

Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external 
Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  

38

 
 
 
 
 
 
Apple, Inc. 

Page 2 

Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 

The  work  was  planned  and  carried  out  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  for  all  indicators  and  we 
believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.  

Our Findings

BVNA  verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal  Year  2015 reporting  period  (September 28, 
2014 through September 26, 2015):

Parameter

Quantity

Units

Boundary/ Protocol

Natural Gas 
Consumption:  

8.5

Million Therms

Electricity Consumption:

990

Renewable Energy

914

Scope 1 GHG 
Emissions

28,103

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh)

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh)

metric tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent 
(tCO2e)

Scope 2 GHG 
Emissions (Location-
Based)

Scope 2 GHG 
Emissions (Market-
Based)

Scope 3 GHG 
Emissions – Business 
Travel 

Scope 3 GHG 
Emissions – Employee 
Commute

376,365

tCO2e

43,608

tCO2e

139,936

tCO2e

172,968

tCO2e

Water Withdrawal

2,000,000

cubic meters 
(m

)

3

Trash  disposed
Landfill

 in 

Hazardous Waste 
(Regulated waste)

5947

455

Metric tonnes

Metric tonnes

Recycled Material 
(Removal by recycling 
contractor)

10,221

Metric tonnes

Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple 
Internal Protocol
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple 
Internal Protocol
Worldwide / Invoiced 
quantities & self-
generated
Worldwide occupied 
properties /
WRI/WBCSD GHG 
Protocol

Worldwide occupied 
properties /
WRI/WBCSD GHG 
Protocol
Worldwide occupied 
properties /
WRI/WBCSD GHG 
Protocol
Worldwide occupied 
properties / 
WRI/WBCSD GHG 
Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3)
Worldwide occupied 
properties / 
WRI/WBCSD GHG 
Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3)
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple 
Internal Protocol
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple 
Internal Protocol
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple 
Internal Protocol
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple 
Internal Protocol

39

 
 
Apple, Inc. 

Our Conclusion 

Page 3 

Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, we conclude that:  

  The Energy, Water, Waste, and Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG Emissions assertions shown above are 

materially correct and are a fair representation of the data and information; and 

  Apple  has  established  appropriate  systems  for  the  collection,  aggregation  and  analysis  of 
relevant  environmental  information,  and  has  implemented  underlying  internal  assurance 
practices  that  provide  a  reasonable  degree  of  confidence  that  such  information  is  complete 
and accurate.  

Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 

BVNA  is  an  independent  professional  services  company  that  specializes  in  Quality,  Health,  Safety, 
Social  and  Environmental  management  with  over  180  years  history  in  providing  independent 
assurance services, and an annual 2015 revenue of $4.6 billion Euros. 

No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple, its Directors or Managers 
beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this 
verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest.  

BVNA  has  implemented  a  Code  of  Ethics  across  the  business  to  maintain  high  ethical  standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   

The  assurance  team  has  extensive  experience  in  conducting  assurance  over  environmental,  social, 
ethical  and  health  and  safety  information,  systems  and  processes,  has  over  20  years  combined 
experience  in  this  field  and  an  excellent  understanding  of  BVNA  standard  methodology  for  the 
Assurance of Sustainability Reports.  

Attestation:  

Trevor A. Donaghu, Lead Verifier  
Technical Director, Climate Change Services 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services 
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 

John A. Rohde, Technical Reviewer 
Senior Project Manager 
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 

April 11, 2016 

40

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review and Verification Statement 
Company Carbon Footprint – Scope 3: Product related Carbon Footprint 
for Fiscal Year 2015 

Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 company carbon footprint (CCF) data related to 
the products manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2015.  

1 

Summary 

This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the calculated corporate 
annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle assessment 
(LCA) of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2015. This review and verification focuses on 
Scope 3 emissions for products sold by Apple Inc. (as defined by WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard).  It is noted that emissions 
relating to the facilities that are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 and 2 emissions) as well 
as business travel and employee commute were subject to a separate third party 
verification and are therefore excluded from the scope of this statement. Confidential data 
relating to product sales and shipments were also excluded from the scope of this 
verification.  

This review and verification covers Apple’s corporate annual greenhouse gas emissions and 
does not replace reviews conducted for individual product LCAs for greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by Apple for individual products 
has been calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/14044: Environmental 
management – Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework / Requirements and 
guidelines. This review and verification furthermore complies with ISO 14064-3: 
Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification 
of greenhouse gas assertions.  

The review of the corporate annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria: 

  The system, boundaries and functional unit are clearly defined 
  Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

1

41

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 

are adequately disclosed 

These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (98%) of Apple Inc. annual corporate 
carbon footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The 
aforementioned criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a 
view to providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  

Data reported by Apple is as follows: 

2015

Manufacturing 
29,599,494 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Transportation 
1,322,121 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Product Use 
6,566,851 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Recycling 
502,547 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 corporate carbon footprint 

  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 

information, and 

  has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 

GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 

2 

Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 

A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046-3 has been established in the 
course of this CCF review and verification, defining the level of assurance, objectives, 
criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 

As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  

  Sales data for FY2015, including accessories 
  Regional distribution of sold units and country specific allocation per product to 

major sell-in countries 

  Product specific data on transportation including breakdown of air and sea 

shipment 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

2

42

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Life cycle GHG emissions for all products, differentiating the actual product 

configurations (i.e. memory capacity) 

  Calculation methodology for the company carbon footprint and methodological 

changes implemented in 2015 

  The total company carbon footprint – scope 3 for the fiscal year 2015 
  Detailed analysis of the CCF including: 

o  The breakdown of the CCF into life cycle phases manufacturing, 

transportation, product use and recycling 

o  Detailed product specific split into life cycle phases 
o  The contribution of individual products and product families to the overall 

CCF 

The data and information supporting the GHG assertion were projected (use phase and 
recycling) and historical (i.e. fiscal year 2015 data regarding sales figures, manufacturing, 
transportation). 

This review comprises a check of selected data, which are most influential to the overall 
company carbon footprint. The overall plausibility check addressed the following questions: 

  Are product LCAs referenced correctly? 
  Are results for products, for which no full LCA review was undertaken, plausible? 
  Are carbon emission data for individual products plausible in the light of 

methodological changes as indicated by Apple?  

This review was done remotely. 

3 

Findings 

Prior to this CCF review and verification 14 recent product LCA studies, including for the 
first time separately sold accessories, have been reviewed successfully against ISO 
14040/44. These recent LCAs cover most important product segments (Apple Watch, iPad, 
iPhone, iPod, MacBook, MacBook Pro, and Beats products). These latest LCA studies cover 
products which represent in total 47,2% of the total scope 3 company carbon footprint. 
Representatives of other product segments (iMac, Mac Pro, Mac Mini, Airport Express / 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

3

43

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Airport Extreme, Apple TV and Cinema Display) underwent no or only minor design 
changes compared to those which went through a full LCA review in former years.  

The methodological changes implemented with the 2015 CCF data are confirmed to lead 
to an improvement in terms of accuracy and real use patterns representation of the results. 
Inevitably this hampers the comparability of 2015 results with earlier CCF data. 

All questions raised in the course of the review were answered by Apple and related 
evidence was provided where needed.   

4 

Conclusions 

We observe from year to year an improvement of the assessment approach in terms of 
granularity of the used calculation data. This year the use phase models have been 
enhanced, taking into account real use pattern data. Several additional components are 
now modelled with primary data from Apple’s suppliers. 

For all product LCA calculations, where exact data was missing, the principle of a worst-
case approach has been followed and results have been calculated with rather conservative 
estimates regarding e.g. production yield losses and recycling.   

The review has not found assumptions or calculation errors on the CCF data level that 
indicate the scope 3 corporate carbon footprint has been materially misstated. The 
excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    

Berlin, March 24, 2016 

- Karsten Schischke -   
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and 
Reliability Engineering  

- Marina Proske - 
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

4

44

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review Statement 
Company Fiber Footprint 

Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s company fiber footprint data related to the products 
manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2015.  

1

Summary 

This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated corporate annual fiber footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2015.  

As there is no standardised method available for calculating a product or company fiber 
footprint Apple defined a methodology for internal use. The scope of the Fiber Footprint 
includes Apple’s corporate fiber usage from products. Facility fiber usage is explicitly 
excluded. The fiber footprint tracks the total amount of wood fiber, both virgin and 
recycled, that Apple uses in packaging, and other paper products. Apple obtains and 
analyses supplier-specific data for each product line and sums up these figures for the 
entire company using sell-in numbers. The output is a total fiber footprint.  

The review of the corporate annual fiber footprint has considered the following criteria: 

 The system boundaries are clearly defined 

 Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 

 Use of supplier data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 

disclosed 

Data reported by Apple is as follows: 

2015 

Total Fiber 
132,741
[metric tons fiber] 

Virgin Fiber 
51,669
[metric tons fiber] 

Recycled Fiber 
81,072 
[metric tons fiber] 

All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 2015 are plausible. 

Company Fiber Footprint Review 
Client: Apple Inc.

1

45

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Reviewed Data and Findings 

As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  

 Calculation methodology for the company fiber footprint 

 Sales data for FY2015, including accessories 

 Product and supplier specific data on packaging design (including CAD design 

drawings), materials (distinction of paper qualities, fiber content, including recycled 
fiber content), weights and production yields (process yields and cut-off losses) 

 Aggregated fiber data for all products and the total company fiber footprint for 

the fiscal year 2015 

The revised methodology paper provided by Apple (Fiber Footprint at Apple - Methodology 
Description - V1.0) on March 15, 2016, is considered a sound and appropriate guidance for 
determining the company fiber footprint. Where appropriate, this approach follows 
methodological principles applied for state-of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments. 

This review comprises a check of fiber data for selected products, which are most 
influential to the overall company fiber footprint and which represent the full spectrum of 
Apple products. The selection of products for individual reviews has been agreed between 
Apple and Fraunhofer IZM. 

Plausibility of some supplier data has been questioned and discussed in detail with Apple. 
Based on direct supplier feedback related fiber data has been corrected. 

This review was done remotely. All questions raised in the course of the review were 
answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   

Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
fiber footprint is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of fiber data and 
information. The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    

Berlin, March 29, 2016 

- Karsten Schischke -   
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and 
Reliability Engineering  

- Marina Proske - 
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering 

Company Fiber Footprint Review 
Client: Apple Inc.

2

46

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix D

Environmental Health and Safety Policy 
Statement

Mission Statement

Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of our 
employees, customers and the global communities where we operate.

We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety management 
practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer technologically innovative prod-
ucts and services while conserving and enhancing resources for future generations.

Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health and safety 
management systems and in the environmental quality of our products, processes, and 
services.

Guiding Principles

Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements.  
We will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring ongoing performance results  
and through periodic management reviews.

Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will adopt our own 
standards to protect human health and the environment.

Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible public policy 
that enhance environmental quality, health and safety.

Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety principles and 
practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers.

Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs to Apple 
employees and stakeholders.

Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote energy  
efficiency, and protect the environment.

Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve energy and  
materials, and prevent pollution throughout the product life cycle including design, 
manufacture, use, and end-of-life management.

Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to fulfill and  
sustain Apple’s environmental, health and safety management systems and policy.

Luca Maestri 
Senior Vice President and CFO 

January 2016

47

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015Appendix E

EMS Certification

48

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2016 Progress Report, Covering FY2015CERTIFICATE  
O

F REGISTRATION 

This is to certify that 
 Inc.  
 Apple
o  perates an 
 Environmental Management System 
which complies with the requirements of 

 ISO 14001:2004 
for the following scope of registration 

T  he management of the environmental risks associated specifically with aspects/impacts 
 associated with functions limited to the " Design & Engineering " Department & Corporate 
Recycling of Apple Inc., 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, Ca.  
Registered Sites: 

Apple Inc.  

Apple Inc. 

1326 Kifer Road  
Sunnyvale, California 
94086  USA 

  Certificate Number: 
  File Number: 
  Issue Date: 

Original Certification Date: 
Current Certification Date: 
Certificate Expiry Date: 

CERT-0095035 
1677254 
March 11, 2016 
March 11, 2016 
March 11, 2016 
September 28, 2017 

1 Infinite Loop  
Cupertino, California 
  USA 

CERT-0095035 
1677253 
March 11, 2016 
March 11, 2016 
March 11, 2016 
September 28, 2017 

Heather Mahon 
Acting Head of  
Policy, Risk and Certification 
________________________________________________________________________________ 

ISO 14001 

Registered by: 
SAI Global Certification Services Pty Ltd, 680 George St, Level 37-38, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia with QMI-SAI Canada Limited, 20 Carlson 
Court, Suite 200, Toronto, Ontario M9W 7K6 Canada (SAI GLOBAL). This registration is subject to the SAI Global Terms and Conditions for Certification. 
While all due care and skill was exercised in carrying out this assessment, SAI Global accepts responsibility only for proven negligence. This certificate 
remains the property of SAI Global and must be returned to them upon request. 
To verify that this certificate is current, please refer to the SAI Global On-Line Certification Register: www.qmi-saiglobal.com/qmi_companies/ 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
 
 
 
 
Report Notes:

•  This report is published annually and covers fiscal year 2015 activities, unless otherwise noted.

•  This report addresses environmental impacts and activities at Apple-owned facilities (corporate offices, data centers, and retail stores),  

as well as the life-cycle impacts of our products, including in the manufacturing, transportation, use, and end-of-life phases.

•  To provide feedback on this report, please contact environment-report@apple.com. 

1 CO2e, or carbon dioxide equivalent, is a standard unit for measuring carbon footprints. It translates into one number the impact of different 
greenhouse gases based on their potential to contribute to climate change.

2 Greenhouse gas equivalencies calculated using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator: 
www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator.

3 Based on the average residential cost of electricity in the U.S. in 2015; includes customer use scenarios and power consumed by the power 
adapter when disconnected from the iPhone.

4 Calculations based on sales-weighted averages for all energy-using Apple-branded products in the given years.

5 In Brazil, sanitary waste is legally mandated to be landfilled as biohazard waste. Because of this regulatory requirement, UL is exempting  
sanitary waste from the zero waste to landfill validation currently underway at the Foxconn final assembly facility in São Paulo, Brazil.  
As of March 2016, sanitary waste represented 4 percent of total waste at this facility.

6 Water consumption is calculated using NREL source data, Operational Water Consumption and Withdrawal Factors for Electricity Generating 
Technologies, 2012. Savings estimated from use of renewable energy is not reflected in our facilities’ water-use calculations.

7Based on equivalent virgin fiber production from protected forests and virgin fiber used for product packaging.

8 In terms of global and statewide occurrence.

9 Based on estimates of the volume of virgin fiber required to produce our packaging and the volume of virgin fiber produced by those  
forests protected through our partnership with The Conservation Fund.

10Hunan, Guangxi, Guangdong, Fujian, and Yunnan.

11 Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the exception of power cables in India and South Korea, where we continue to  

seek government approval for our PVC and phthalates replacement. 

Updated September 2016. 
Added energy and emissions tables for colocated facilities to Appendix B.

© 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, AirPort Express, AirPort Extreme, Apple TV, Apple Watch, FaceTime, iMac, iMessage, 
iPad, iPhone, iPod, iTunes, Mac, Mac Pro, MacBook, MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, and Siri are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and 
other countries. iPad Pro is a trademark of Apple Inc. Apple Store is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. 
ENERGY STAR is a U.S. registered mark. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies.  
Septeber 2016

