Environmental 
Responsibility Report

2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014

Our micro-hydro project uses the natural drops in elevation along the Deschutes River to help power our Prineville, Oregon, data center.

Contents

Page 3 

Environmental Responsibility at Apple

Page 4 

Climate Change

Page 11 

Renewable Resources

Page 18 

Finite Resources

Page 23 

Toxins

Page 25 

Appendix A 
Environmental Health and Safety Policy Statement

Page 26 

Appendix B 
Carbon Assurance and Review Statements

Page 34 

Appendix C 
Facilities Emissions: Scope 1, 2, and 3 Carbon Emissions Disclosure 

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
Wastewater at our supplier facility in 
Dongguan, China, is treated and tested 
for reuse under the guidance of our 
Clean Water Program.

Our work is led by Lisa Jackson, Apple’s  
Vice President of Environmental Initiatives, 
reporting directly to CEO Tim Cook. The  
Office of Environmental Initiatives works with 
teams across Apple to set strategy, engage 
stakeholders, and communicate progress. Our 
integrated approach means that decisions 
about environmental issues are reviewed  
at the highest levels of the company.

Environmental 
Responsibility at Apple

We strive to leave the world better than we found it, and that means considering  
everything we do—from the design of our products to the processes we use to make 
and recycle them. Our passion for innovation is also reflected in how we think about 
environmental responsibility. Our goal is to make not just the best products in the world, 
but the best products for the world.

Apple’s 2015 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2014, highlights the 
progress we’ve made.  We have set three priorities where we believe Apple can make the 
most impact:  

•  Reduce our impact on climate change by using renewable energy sources and  

driving energy efficiency in our products.

•  Conserve precious resources so we all can thrive.

•  Pioneer the use of greener materials in our products and processes.

This report details how we are approaching each of these priorities and highlights some 
of our key accomplishments to date.

For starters, every one of our data centers is powered entirely by clean sources such as 
solar, wind, biogas fuel cells, micro-hydro power, and geothermal energy. So whenever  
you download a song from iTunes, install an app from the Mac App Store, or ask Siri a 
question, the energy Apple uses is provided by nature. 

Of course, the cleanest energy is the energy you never use. That’s why, thanks to  
innovations in energy efficiency, we’ve reduced the average total greenhouse gas  
emissions during the use phase of our products by 61 percent since 2008—helping 
reduce our customers’ carbon footprints and electricity bills. And each one of our  
products far exceeds the strict energy efficiency guidelines set by ENERGY STAR.

By working with The Conservation Fund, we’re permanently protecting more than 36,000 
acres of working forest in the eastern United States. And we’re working to ensure that our 
product packaging has a net-zero impact on the world’s supply of sustainable virgin fiber.

We’ve led the industry in removing many harmful toxins from our products, such as PVC, 
brominated flame retardants, and phthalates. And we’ve designed iPhone 6, iPad Air 2, 
and MacBook to be beryllium-free. Many toxins are restricted not only in the products 
themselves but also in the manufacturing process, because we are committed to providing 
safe working conditions for the people who make, use, and recycle our products.

We now offer recycling programs in 99 percent of the countries where we sell our products 
and have diverted more than 508 million pounds of electronic waste from landfills since 
2008. Every Apple Retail Store in the world will now take back Apple products for free and 
recycle them responsibly. We believe we must be accountable for every Apple product at 
every stage of its use.

We know we have a long way to go, and a lot of work ahead of us. We are committed to 
increasing openness in our work and welcome you to join us on our journey.

3

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Climate Change

Our solar plant in Yerington, Nevada, 
generates up to 20 megawatts of 
renewable energy for our Reno 
data center.

We’re proud to have signed the CERES  
Climate Declaration, which recognizes the  
business challenges and opportunities of  
fighting climate change.
www.ceres.org/declaration

We don’t want to debate climate change. We want to stop it. It takes an enormous 
amount of energy to design, assemble, and ship hundreds of millions of products all 
over the world. That energy makes up our carbon footprint and in turn, our share of 
the climate change problem. We’ve made real progress in reducing the impact of the 
things we control directly—our offices, retail stores, and products. But there’s still a lot 
of work to be done to reduce the carbon footprint of our supply chain. And it’s our 
responsibility to lead that effort.

Why we measure our carbon footprint so rigorously.
We take a thorough approach to measuring and taking responsibility for our environ-
mental impact. In fact, we know of no other company in our industry that goes so far  
in measuring, verifying, and disclosing its carbon emissions. Instead of reporting just the 
carbon footprint of the facilities we own, we also include the carbon footprint of our 
supply chain. And we don’t use generalized industry-standard measurement models—
we use a comprehensive product life cycle analysis that measures the carbon footprint 
throughout the entire life of our products, so everything is meticulously accounted for. 
That means adding up emissions generated from the manufacturing, transportation, 
use, and recycling of our products, as well as emissions generated by all our facilities.  
And while we’re constantly improving, we’re also constantly reporting—even when our 
numbers aren’t as good as we’d like them to be.

34,200,000

metric tons of greenhouse
gas emissions

  0.4M 

  7.0M 

  1.6M 
  0.5M 

Facilities1

Product usage

Transportation

Recycling

 24.8M  Manufacturing

4

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
How our carbon footprint informs our thinking.
We’re always trying to improve the way we conduct our greenhouse gas life cycle 
analysis. And when our assessments reveal a material, process, or system that’s making 
a significant negative impact on our carbon footprint, we reexamine how we design 
that product, process, or facility.

A significant factor in the increase of our overall carbon footprint from 2013 to 2014 
is simply that we sold more products than ever before—iPhone, MacBook Pro, and 
MacBook Air in particular. Even though the quantity of the products we make is 
increasing, we are reducing the carbon intensity associated with making and using 
them. The ratio of carbon emissions to the revenue we generate—Apple’s carbon  
efficiency—has dropped steadily every year since 2008.

Apple’s Carbon Efficiency

Looking at our overall carbon footprint, from 2013 to 2014, we saw a 7 percent decline 
in emissions associated with product use thanks to improved energy efficiency of our 
products. In the same period, there was a 5 percent increase in manufacturing emissions 
attributed to the production needs of increased memory and storage capacity of our 
iOS devices and notebooks.

Our data shows that the carbon footprint of our manufacturing processes represents 
the largest portion of our impact on climate change. Every year we investigate more 
deeply into our supply chain, constantly analyzing inefficiencies and developing ways 
to help our suppliers make less of an impact on the planet. We’ve set an example with 
our own facilities around the world using clean, renewable energy. Our work in helping 
our suppliers do the same is just beginning, but we’re making strides. And we’re  
committed to reducing the environmental impact of our manufacturing.

5

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY20140.150.20.250.32008200920102011201220132014kg CO2e per $ of revenueAn energy-efficient facility is good, but a 100 percent 
renewable energy facility is better.
As of 2014, 100 percent of our U.S. operations and 87 percent of our operations world-
wide are powered by renewable energy—which results in fewer carbon emissions. 
These worldwide operations include a lot of facilities—all our data centers; all our  
corporate offices, which house nearly 50,000 employees; and over 450 Apple Retail 
Stores around the world—but our goal is to power all of them with 100 percent 
renewable energy. So we’re tapping into energy from solar, wind, micro-hydro, biogas 
fuel cells, and geothermal sources. We’re designing new buildings and updating existing  
ones to use as little electricity as possible. And we’re investing in our own Apple onsite  
energy production as well as establishing relationships with third-party energy suppliers  
to source renewable energy. For more details, read the Renewable Resources section 
of this report.

Our environmental commitment starts in the places where we work—from our  
corporate campuses to our data centers. Although our facilities now represent only 
1 percent of our carbon footprint, they reflect our values, and we want them to act  
as models for others to follow. This is why we are constantly making our facilities  
more energy efficient and aggressively investing in renewable energy. In just three 
years, we’ve reduced our effective Scope 1 and 2 CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions  
by 48 percent, even while our overall energy consumption greatly increased.

Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions capture the emissions from our natural gas use and  
electricity use at our facilities—worldwide corporate offices, data centers, and retail—as well  
as our fleet vehicle fuel use. Detailed Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions data is provided in Appendix C.

Our approach to renewable energy is based on three principles:

Displacement. We seek to displace more polluting forms of energy in the same  
electric grid region in which we operate—by putting into the grid an amount of 
renewable energy equal to the amount of energy taken from the grid by our facilities.

Additionality. We strive to create new clean energy that adds to the energy already 
being supplied to the grid. This generally means participating in renewable energy 
projects that would not have been built without Apple’s involvement. And we make 
sure that the energy we count toward our goals is not counted toward the goals that 
utilities must already meet to comply with state standards, such as the Renewable 
Portfolio Standard.

6

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Scope 1 and 2 Effective Carbon Emissions(metric tons CO2e)050,000100,000150,000200,000250,000300,000350,000400,000450,000500,000FY 2011FY 2012FY 2013FY 2014Default EmissionsTotal emissions if Appledid not use renewableenergyEffective EmissionsNet emissions afteraccounting for Apple’s use of renewable energyAccountability. We apply rigor in measuring and tracking our energy supply resources, 
and use third-party registries such as WREGIS and NC-RETS, certification programs such 
as Green-e Energy, and contractual provisions to ensure that all renewable energy 
supplied to Apple is supplied only to Apple so there’s no double-counting. 

Where it’s not feasible to create all our own energy, we fulfill the remaining needs with 
grid-purchased renewable energy, preferably delivered to our facilities or to the same 
electric grid in which our facilities are located. Here we have been exceptionally rigor-
ous on two fronts: first, in ensuring that grid-purchased renewable energy be from 
newer projects, with the objective of providing investment incentives to local provid-
ers; and second, to secure renewable energy from the grid in the region in which we 
use it. In cases where we aren’t able to purchase renewable energy in this way due to 
local regulations, Apple will purchase renewable energy credits, which we register and 
are careful to retire in certified tracking systems.2

Our commitment starts at home.
We’ve made energy efficiency and renewable power a priority in our current corporate 
campus in Cupertino. In 2012, we completed a major energy overhaul of our six Infinite 
Loop buildings, achieving a combined electric and natural gas savings of more than 
30 percent at a time when occupancy increased by more than 12 percent. By applying  
similar equipment upgrades and control system improvements across the more than  
100 buildings we occupy in Cupertino and the area, we have saved 34.4 million 
kilowatt-hours of electricity and 797,000 therms of natural gas over the past four years. 
Highlights of our energy efficiency program in California from 2014 include:

•  Standardizing upon LED lighting for all Apple facilities undergoing new construction 
or major renovations, and selecting the most efficient fixtures and controls for each 
application

•  Selecting high-efficiency HVAC and plumbing equipment, such as chillers, boilers, 

fans, pumps, water heaters, and packaged air conditioning units based on life cycle 
cost, and not first cost

•  Optimizing new HVAC and lighting controls with strategies such as duct static  

pressure reset, supply air temperature reset, intelligent scheduling, and daylighting

•  For existing buildings, troubleshooting outside air economizer operation, replacing 

old inefficient HVAC equipment with new, more efficient equipment, and optimizing 
HVAC and lighting control sequences for both operational and energy efficiencies

And in 2014, we began energy efficiency programs in our corporate and retail facilities 
throughout the rest of the United States, as well as in Europe and Asia.

Our Cupertino buildings are supplied by 100 percent clean, renewable energy. An 
onsite directed biogas fuel cell currently produces approximately 4 million kilowatt-
hours of electricity annually, and rooftop solar systems on our Vallco Parkway, 
Homestead, and Alves cafeteria facilities collectively produce 1.3 million kilowatt-
hours annually. To meet the balance of our load, we purchase clean power through 
California’s Direct Access program and use the Green-e Energy program to certify that 
it’s truly renewable.

7

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Emissions from Employee Travel
(metric tons CO2e/employee)

1.8

1.35

0.9

0.4

0

2011

2012

2013

2014

Fleet 
Vehicles

Business 
Travel 

Employee 
Commute

Absolute values for Scope 1 and Scope 3  
emissions associated with employee travel  
are reported in Appendix C.

We’re lessening our impact when we commute or hit  
the road.
Apple is working hard to minimize the environmental impact of employee commutes, 
interoffice trips, and business travel. Apple’s Commute Alternatives Program provides 
incentives and support for Apple employees to use alternative modes of transportation 
to commute to work and between offices. In 2014, more than 10,000 employees across 
our U.S. corporate offices and retail stores participated in our transit subsidy program, 
which offers up to $100 per month for use of public transit. We also encourage ride 
sharing by providing a number of tools to connect employees, including commuter 
maps, suggestions for finding a good match, and volunteer Commute Experts who 
help advise new employees. In the Bay Area, more than 2700 Apple employees use our 
free, biodiesel-powered coach buses to commute to and from our corporate offices 
in Cupertino and Sunnyvale, California. Taking those cars off the road helped to avoid 
8369 metric tons of CO2e emissions. To encourage electric vehicle use, we also offer our 
employees over 330 electric vehicle charging ports, at no cost, and are adding more to 
meet increased demand. 

To get around while at work, our employees can use our Apple shared bike program, 
car-share vehicles, and intercampus shuttles. In 2014, employees took more than 110,312 
trips on shared bikes, a 55 percent increase over 2013. By providing incentives for biking,  
using public transportation, and reducing the use of single-occupancy vehicles, our 
Commute Alternatives Program provided over 2 million trips.

To avoid employee travel when we can, we installed video teleconferencing equipment 
at all our major facilities around the world. And when employees must travel for business,  
we provide them with hybrid vehicle rentals where available. Apple employees drove 
more than 550,000 miles in hybrid rentals in 2014, as much as 2012 and 2013 combined, 
helping to avoid the use of 35,000 gallons of gasoline. 

In 2014, Apple’s total carbon emissions from employee commute, Apple fleet vehicles, 
and business travel were 275,000 metric tons of CO2e—a 16 percent increase from 2013, 
due primarily to increases in business travel and in the total number of employees 
working for Apple.  

We can make better products with cleaner practices.
Our dedication to an environmentally sustainable operation goes beyond our corporate 
offices and retail stores. We look for every opportunity to develop cleaner manufacturing 
processes that help us create not only great products, but also a better environment. 
We may not own our suppliers’ facilities, but we do own their carbon footprint— 
72 percent of our total. And we’d like to see the same progress in our suppliers’ use  
of clean energy that we’ve seen in our own.

For example, we worked with our supplier Flextronics to identify energy savings in 
the Austin, Texas, facility where they manufacture Mac Pro. Flextronics then shifted its 
entire Mac Pro operations to 100 percent renewable wind energy, purchased from the 
same local utility that provides our Austin campus with 100 percent renewable energy. 
And we’re encouraging our other suppliers to follow Flextronics’ lead and move 
toward clean energy.

We’re also helping our suppliers in China pave the way for renewable energy. Our 
40-megawatt solar project near Chengdu, designed to power our corporate offices  
and retail stores, is setting a precedent for large-scale renewable energy in China. By 
showing that green energy is a viable option in China, we hope to set a clear path  
for the companies there that manufacture our products.

8

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Energy efficiency is built in.
The energy consumed by our products during everyday use represents 21 percent of our 
carbon footprint. So we look at three ways to reduce a product’s energy consumption:  
more efficient power supplies to bring electricity from the wall to the device, more efficient  
hardware, and smarter power management software.

The cost to charge the battery 
of an iPhone 6 once a day in the 
U.S. is 57¢ per year.3

M8

The M8 coprocessor measures  
motion data more efficiently  
for less recharging.

In idle mode, Mac Pro is 68 percent 
more power efficient than the  
previous generation.

2x

Mac Pro delivers up to 7 teraflops—more 
than twice the computing power of the  
previous generation—while consuming  
half as much energy at full power.

7x
6w

38w
97%

Mac mini is the world’s most  
energy-efficient desktop computer.4

Exceeds ENERGY STAR requirements 
by up to 7 times.

Amount of energy used when idle.

Power used in idle mode with the 
iMac display at full brightness.

Power usage in sleep mode was reduced 
97 percent compared with the first-
generation 21.5-inch iMac.

The 21.5-inch iMac uses less energy 
than all other computers in its class.5

9

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014As a company that designs both the hardware and the software for its products, 
we’re able to use that technological collaboration for greater energy efficiency. OS X, 
the Mac operating system, never misses a power-saving opportunity, no matter how 
small. It puts hard disks to sleep and runs processors in an ultralow power mode when 
you’re not hard at work on your Mac. And when you are, OS X uses less energy for 
apps that are open but not visible, pauses animated website plug-ins until you give 
the OK, and can even idle the processor between keystrokes as you type. These energy 
savings might seem tiny, but when multiplied by every Apple computer in the world, 
they’re huge.

A lot of the things that used to be done on a computer are now being done on an iPad 
or iPhone. Since these smaller devices use a lot less material and energy, their carbon 
footprint is much smaller than that of a computer. And as these devices become more 
and more advanced, their performance improves right along with their energy efficiency.  
For example, the A8 chip delivers up to 25 percent faster CPU performance and up to 
50 percent faster graphics performance, yet it’s 50 percent more energy efficient.

Thanks to improvements in energy efficiency, our products generate an average of 
61 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions during the use phase than in 2008. So 
even as we continue to grow faster than the rest of the industry, we’re doing it with 
products that are friendlier to the environment.

ENERGY STAR standards are just our starting point.
Every Apple product not only meets but far exceeds the strict guidelines set by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for energy efficiency. No other company in our 
industry can make that claim. In fact, we go beyond the ENERGY STAR specification, 
offering notebooks that are up to five times as energy efficient as the ENERGY STAR 
specification and desktop computers that are up to seven times as energy efficient.6

The EPEAT gold standard.
The Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) allows consumers to 
see the effect a product has on the environment. Each product receives a Gold, Silver, 
or Bronze rank depending on its efficiency and sustainability. Every Apple tablet, 
notebook, desktop computer, and display that EPEAT ranks achieves a Gold rating, the 
highest possible.

10

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Renewable Resources

Apple and The Conservation Fund are 
protecting more than 36,000 acres of 
working forests across the United States.

Some of the best technologies for preserving the environment are already here— 
sunlight, wind, and forests. These resources are naturally renewable and capable of  
providing energy and materials for a long time. We’re committed to using forests 
responsibly so they’re still here for future generations. And we’re making real progress 
toward running all our facilities on 100 percent clean and renewable energy.

Forests are essential to the future  
of our environmental health and  
economic vitality. It’s crucial that  
we work together to protect them.

  Evan Smith

VP, Conservation Ventures, The Conservation  
Fund in a Georgia forest protected by  
The Conservation Fund.

Forests give us so much. We need to return the favor.
Forests clean the air we breathe, protect the habitats of animals and plant life, and filter 
drinking water. They also provide wood fiber for the paper we use in our packaging.  
If protected and managed sustainably, forests can thrive, fulfilling their vital role in the 
ecosystem while still supplying the world’s paper needs. But forests around the world are 
under threat from poor management, illegal logging, and aggressive land development. 
We need to protect this crucial resource and component of our ecosystem. Our goal is 
to ensure that our packaging has a net-zero impact on the world’s supply of  
sustainable virgin fiber.

We’re using paper more efficiently.
The best way to preserve virgin paper is to use less of it. So we’re designing our pack-
aging to be smaller and to use more recycled paper, and we’re developing technologies  
that use paper more efficiently. The packaging for iPhone 6 takes up 34 percent less  
volume than the first-generation iPhone packaging. And over two-thirds of the paper 
used for iPhone, iPad, iPod, Mac, and Apple TV packaging comes from recycled content.

We’re sourcing virgin paper responsibly.
When we do use virgin paper in our product packaging, we’re continually working 
to ensure that it comes only from sustainably managed forests and controlled wood 
sources. Our sustainable fiber specification requires that when our suppliers use virgin 
fibers, they source only from forests that are certified as sustainably and responsibly 
managed or from controlled wood sources. In fiscal year 2014, over 80 percent of the 
paper and corrugated cardboard used in our iPhone, iPad, iPod, Mac, and Apple TV 
packaging came from certified sustainably managed forests, controlled wood sources, 
or recycled materials. We will not stop until 100 percent of the fibers we use meet 
these standards.

We’re protecting sustainable forests.
We are committed to protecting—and creating—as much sustainable working forest as 
is needed to produce the paper in our product packaging.7 Through our work with The 
Conservation Fund, we’re permanently protecting more than 36,000 acres of working 
forest in the eastern United States. The collective annual production from these forests  
is equivalent to nearly half of the virgin fiber used for iPhone, iPad, iPod, Mac, and Apple TV  
packaging in fiscal year 2014.8

11

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Clean, renewable energy is our standard, everywhere.
Our goal is to power all our corporate facilities around the world as we do all our data 
centers—with 100 percent renewable energy. And we’re not content with just purchasing 
clean energy from existing sources. Whenever possible, we go even further by creating 
new sources that add clean energy to the grid. For example, we’ve partnered with First 
Solar to create a solar project in Monterey County, California. When it comes online in 
2016, this 2900-acre facility will generate 130 megawatts of clean energy—enough to 
power Apple Campus 2, all our other California offices, all 52 retail stores in California, 
and our data center in Newark, California.

Our commitment to renewable energy also extends beyond our home in California. 
In China, we’re undertaking a ground-breaking renewable energy partnership with 
SunPower, Tianjin Zhonghuan Semiconductor, and other companies to build a renewable 
solar energy project in Sichuan Province. It will generate up to 80 million kilowatt-hours 
per year of clean energy—far more than the energy used by all our offices and retail 
stores in China combined. This project is being developed to complement the natural 
environment, paying special attention to preserving the grasses that feed the indigenous 
yak population.

How We’re Achieving Net Zero Energy

Energy Eﬃciency
An important ﬁrst step in 
managing electricity is to
ensure our facilities use 
as little as possible, which
is why we designed them 
for maximum energy 
eﬃciency.

Energy Generation
Where feasible, we’re 
producing our own 
renewable energy by 
building our own solar 
arrays, biogas fuel cells,
and micro-hydro 
generation systems.

Purchasing Renewable Energy
Where we can't produce our 
own, we purchase renewable 
energy, investing in local, newer 
projects to ensure additional 
development that is sustainable. 
And we are careful to retire all 
renewable energy credits in 
veriﬁed tracking systems.

100 percent of our data centers run on 100 percent  
renewable energy.
Since 2012, all our data centers have been powered by 100 percent renewable energy 
sources. That means no matter how much data they handle, there is a zero greenhouse 
gas impact on the environment from their energy use. These data centers use renewable 
energy sources like solar, wind, biogas fuel cells, micro-hydro power, and geothermal 
power from onsite and locally obtained resources. On any given day, our data centers 
will use renewable energy to serve tens of billions of messages, more than a billion 
photos, and tens of millions of FaceTime video calls. They also run services like Siri, 
the iTunes Store, the App Store, and Maps. So every time a song is downloaded from 
iTunes, an app is installed from the Mac App Store, or a book is downloaded from 
iBooks, the energy Apple uses is provided by nature.

12

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
 
Solar Arrays + Fuel Cell Farm

Maiden, North Carolina
Our Maiden, North Carolina, data center has earned the LEED Platinum certification 
from the U.S. Green Building Council—the first data center of its size to be so honored. 
On any given day, between 60 and 100 percent of the energy it uses is generated 
onsite through our biogas fuel cells and two 20-megawatt solar arrays—the nation’s 
largest privately owned renewable energy installation. It generates 167 million kilowatt-
hours of renewable energy per year, enough to power the equivalent of 12,700 North 
Carolina homes. And we’ll finish another 17-megawatt solar array, capable of producing 
39 million kilowatt-hours per year, later in 2015. We purchase any remaining power we 
need from entirely clean sources located within North Carolina.

Maiden, North Carolina
100% renewable since opening June 2010

Duke Energy Carolinas 
Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable 
Energy Use

Nuclear

Coal

Other

51% PV1

38% PV2

11% Fuel Cells

Renewable

<1% NC GreenPower

2014 Emissions (metric tons CO2e/year)

19%

20%

37%

24%

Default Grid Emissions 92,306  Apple’s Effective Emissions 0

Duke Energy Carolinas: 2014 Statistical Supplement generation data 
Apple Energy: Actual fiscal 2014 energy data

Prineville, Oregon
At our data center in Prineville, Oregon, we built a micro-hydro system that harnesses  
the power of water that’s been flowing through local irrigation canals for over 60 years.  
Located about 25 miles west of our data center, these micro-hydro projects will generate  
12 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy a year. To supplement this 
micro-hydro generation, we’re able to directly access enough local wind energy to 
power the entire data center.

Wind Power + Micro-Hydro Power

Prineville, Oregon
100% renewable since opening May 2012

Pacific Power  
Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable 
Energy Use

Coal

65% Oregon Wind

Natural Gas

13% Utility Green

99%

1%

Other

13% Micro-Hydro (to come)

Renewable

9%

2014 Emissions (metric tons CO2e/year)

Default Grid Emissions 10,393 Apple’s Effective Emissions 0

Pacific Power: www.oregon.gov/energy/pages/oregons_electric_power_mix.aspx
Apple Energy: Actual fiscal 2014 energy data

13

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
Reno, Nevada
Our Reno, Nevada, data center follows in the footsteps of our 100 percent renewable 
energy centers in Maiden and Prineville. We worked with the local utility to codevelop 
a 20-megawatt solar array using C7 solar panels, a new kind of photovoltaic panel with 
curved mirrors that concentrates sunlight. This type of solar panel is well-suited to the 
region’s bright, sunny skies. The solar array has an annual production capacity of over 
43 million kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy. When additional energy is needed,  
we use local geothermal energy purchased from the utility or other solar resources.

Geothermal Power + Solar Arrays

Reno, Nevada
100% renewable since opening December 2012

NV Energy—North   
Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable 
Energy Use

Natural Gas

48% Local Geothermal

100% 

Coal

Other

Renewable

36% (PV Forthcoming)

5%

11%

2014 Emissions (metric tons CO2e/year)

Default Grid Emissions 7,344 Apple’s Effective Emissions 0

NV Energy: www.nvenergy.com/bill_inserts/2015/Power-Content-North_2015-01_web.pdf
Apple Energy: Actual fiscal 2014 energy data

Wind Power

Newark, California
Our data center in Newark, California, is powered by 100 percent renewable energy. 
We hit this milestone in January 2013, when we began serving the data center with 
energy sourced primarily from California wind power. We’re acquiring this energy 
directly from the wholesale market through California’s Direct Access program. Late next 
year, when our 130-megawatt solar project in Monterey County, California, comes online, 
we’ll use Direct Access to supply power from that project directly to our data center.

Newark, California
100% renewable since January 2013

Pacific Gas & Electric  
Default Grid Mix

Apple Actual Renewable 
Energy Use

Natural Gas

Nuclear

Other

28% Bundled Grid  
(mostly wind)
22%

61%

28% Grid (mostly wind)

39%

Renewable

22%

2014 Emissions (metric tons CO2e/year)

Default Grid Emissions 38,278 Apple’s Effective Emissions 0

PG&E: www.pgecurrents.com/2015/01/30/pge-cuts-carbon-emissions-with-clean-energy/
Apple Energy: Actual fiscal 2014 energy data

14

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Solar Arrays

Wind Power

Wind Power

Mesa, Arizona
Our Mesa data center will harness Arizona’s abundant sunlight to supply 100 percent 
renewable energy to our new data and global command center. When the facility is 
fully operational in 2016, it will harness up to 70 megawatts of solar power to provide 
clean energy to the center.

Athenry, Ireland
Our data center in County Galway, Ireland, will be built on recovered land that was 
previously used for commercial lumber. When it opens in 2017, the data center will 
run on 100 percent clean, renewable energy, and it will provide an outdoor education 
space for local schools and a walking trail for the community.

Viborg, Denmark
In 2017, we’ll open a new data center running on 100 percent renewable energy in 
Denmark’s central Jutland region. Due to its proximity to one of Denmark’s largest 
electrical substations, the data center won’t require any additional generators. The 
facility is also designed to capture excess heat from its equipment and then conduct  
it into the district heating system to help warm homes in the community.

Our colocated facilities
The vast majority of our online services are provided by our own data centers. We also 
use third-party colocation facilities for additional data center capacity. While Apple 
doesn’t own these shared facilities and uses only a portion of their total capacity, we 
include them in our renewable energy goals. And we are working with these providers 
to ensure that our share of the energy is provided in the cleanest way possible. Over 
80 percent of our power for colocated facilities is matched with renewable energy 
generated within the same state for facilities in the United States, or within the same 
country for those around the world. And we will keep working with the colocated 
suppliers to get to 100 percent.

15

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014We’re closer to powering 100 percent of our Apple Retail 
Stores with 100 percent renewable energy.
A key part of our fight against climate change is powering our facilities with renewable 
energy. We already hit a major milestone in 2014: 100 percent of the energy used by 
our U.S. operations—all corporate offices, retail stores, and data centers—was renewable 
energy. Now we’ve turned our focus to our more than 450 Apple Retail Stores across 
the world.

The Apple Store, Stanford, one of 265 U.S. 
Apple Retail Stores powered by 100 percent 
renewable energy.

Reaching our goal of 100 percent renewable energy-powered Apple Retail Stores 
worldwide presents some unique challenges. In many cases, an Apple Retail Store’s 
electric meter is in a landlord’s name, not ours. And many states and countries don’t 
offer the ability to directly purchase renewable energy, especially for small electricity  
loads like our retail stores. Despite these challenges, we’re already running more than 
360 of our Apple Retail Stores worldwide on 100 percent renewable energy. This 
includes all 265 of our Apple Retail Stores in the United States, all 38 in the United 
Kingdom, all 14 in Germany, all 21 in Australia, all 15 in Italy, and all 11 in Spain.

For many of our retail stores, we purchase renewable energy from third-party providers.  
Where local regulations don’t allow us to do so, we participate in utility green tariff 
programs, collaborate with landlords to purchase renewable energy on our behalf, or 
procure renewable energy certificates that meet demanding verification standards.  
And wherever possible, we source these renewables locally.

We won’t stop until every Apple Retail Store is powered by 100 percent renewable 
energy. And with initiatives like our solar project that will support all our Apple Retail 
Stores in China, we’re even closer to that goal.

16

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY201495%

We’re recycling over 95 percent of the 
material from the existing buildings for 
use in our new headquarters.

Our new home will be green from the ground up.
Like everything we build, our new Apple campus in Cupertino pushes the boundaries 
of technology—it will be the most energy-efficient building of its kind. Powered by 
100 percent renewable energy, the campus goes beyond showing respect for the  
environment to forming a partnership with it. Air flows freely between the inside 
and outside of the building, providing natural ventilation for 75 percent of the year. 
And sunlight powers one of the largest onsite corporate solar energy installations in 
the world.

The City of Cupertino requires that construction sites recycle or reuse a minimum of 
75 percent of materials demolished from previous structures. For the construction of 
Apple Campus 2, we’re going above and beyond that requirement, recycling or reusing 
over 95 percent of the demolition materials onsite. We’re finding ways to repurpose 
virtually every wall, window, and pipe rather than hauling them off to landfills.

The building itself is only part of the story. Just under 80 percent of the site will be 
open space, populated by more than 7000 trees, which includes more than 6000 newly 
planted shade and fruit trees. Drought-tolerant plants will be used throughout the 
landscape to minimize water use. 

Apple Campus 2 will use 30 percent less 
energy than a typical R&D office building.

Getting to and from the new campus will be greener, too. We’re expanding our  
commute alternatives program by 20 percent. This means that over a third of our  
nearly 15,000 employees in Cupertino can commute to the new campus using our 
biofuel buses, public transit, bicycles, carpools, and their own two feet. And for drivers, 
we’ll have over 300 electric vehicle charging stations.

The new campus is being built from the ground up to meet the highest environmental  
standards set by LEED, an internationally recognized green building rating system. When  
completed, Apple Campus 2 will be an ever-present reminder of our commitment to 
sustainability and an example of what every corporate campus can be.

17

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
Aluminum purification at one of our 
suppliers in Taiwan.

Finite Resources

We’re conscious of how we use resources that may not be around forever. So we’re 
designing products that use fewer materials than ever before. We’ve come up with 
innovative ways to minimize the environmental impact of our raw materials by using 
more recycled, recyclable, and sustainable plant-based materials. And we’re striving 
to reuse as much water as we can when manufacturing our products, and in the data 
centers that help those products and services work.

Making the most of our materials.
Over the past decade, Apple designers and engineers have continued to pioneer new 
ways to build our products with less material. Manufacturing innovations such as 
unibody construction have allowed products like iPad, MacBook, MacBook Pro, and 
MacBook Air to become thinner while being even more resilient. Today’s Mac Pro uses 
74 percent less aluminum and steel than the previous design. The newest 21.5-inch iMac 
is made with 68 percent less material than the first iMac, and the new MacBook uses 
32 percent less aluminum than the first-generation MacBook Air.

74%

Amount of aluminum and steel Mac Pro 
saves compared with its predecessor.

39%

Amount of material iPad Air 2 saves, by 
weight, compared with the first iPad.

32%

Amount of material MacBook saves, by weight, 
compared with the original MacBook Air.

30%

Amount of post-consumer recycled plastic 
in Mac Pro speakers.

30%

Amount of post-consumer recycled plastic 
in iPad Air 2.

67%

Amount of bio-based content in the butterfly 
mechanism of the MacBook keyboard.

18

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Designed for durability.
Smaller and lighter products are easier on the environment, but sometimes the 
environment isn’t easy on them. So we design everything from our largest displays 
to our smallest cables to be durable and long-lasting. And we test them in our own 
Reliability Testing Lab.

You don’t have to buy a new Apple product to have one that feels new. We make it 
easy to update to new versions of apps, software, and entire operating systems—OS X 
Yosemite works on Mac computers made as far back as 2007—so you’ll have a new 
experience without buying a new device. Our built-in notebook batteries are designed 
to last up to five years, which saves on buying new batteries, produces less waste, and 
increases the lifespan of your notebook.

And when Apple product owners pass along their devices to friends or family, they’re 
conserving resources, too. The mark of a great product isn’t just how many you sell, 
but how much it’s used.

Our commitment to recycling.
If not recycled properly, electronic waste can be a serious health and environmental 
issue. To make a quick profit, unethical recyclers sometimes dump e-waste or use  
dangerous techniques that can leak toxins and harm the environment. That’s why 
we’re committed to helping people recycle responsibly. Every Apple Retail Store in 
the world accepts Apple products for responsible recycling. Our Reuse and Recycling 
Program also allows customers in several countries to bring in their older devices in 
exchange for credit toward a new model. We’ve set up recycling programs—such 
as providing free shipping on e-waste returns and organizing collection events and 
ongoing take-back programs with governments and universities—in 99 percent of the 
countries where we sell our products. Since 1994, we have diverted more than 508 million  
pounds of equipment from landfills.

99%

We’ve set up recycling programs in  
99 percent of the countries where we 
sell our products.

Apple employees conduct an audit at our 
partner recycling center in France, ensuring 
materials collected are handled properly.

19

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
Amount of material recovered for reuse in 2014 in metric tons

3.3
Silver

.9
Gold

494

Glass (Other)

2
Tin

5965

Plastics

11,800

Steel

.3
Palladium

1851

Aluminum

5749

Glass (CRT)

77

Cobalt

19
Lead

54

Zinc

1297Copper

16
Nickel

In 2010, we set out to achieve a worldwide recycling collection rate of 70 percent 
of the total weight of the products we sold seven years earlier. Since then, we have 
consistently reached 85 percent. In 2014, we collected 40,396 metric tons of e-waste 
through our take-back programs. That’s more than 75 percent of the total weight of 
the products we sold seven years earlier, and significantly more than others in the 
industry typically report. 

We wanted to better understand the impact of these programs throughout the entire 
recycling chain, so we worked with e-waste experts to calculate how our recycling 
programs break down into raw materials: how much aluminum, steel, and other 
materials from the waste we collect was recovered for reuse instead of mining more 
virgin material. The remaining amount of waste was processed and managed to mini-
mize environmental impact.

Materials like aluminum, steel, copper, gold, silver, and palladium need to be mined 
from the earth and processed, which requires extensive land use and generates 
greenhouse gasses and other emissions. By recycling these materials, we can prevent 
a significant amount of these impacts. For example, we recovered enough steel in 2014 
that the equivalent could be used to build over 100 miles of railroad track. And we 
are continually investing in new ways to better reuse these materials and recover other 
rare elements.

20

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
Office Waste Rate of Landfill Diversion (%)

100

75

50

25

0

2012

2013

2014

Waste, recycling, and compost data is for all 
Apple facilities, including Apple Retail Stores.

Keep recycling local.
All electronic waste we collect worldwide is processed in the region where it’s collected—
nothing is shipped overseas for disposal. The vast majority of our recycling is handled 
in-region, so we can make sure our recycled materials are not being dumped unsafely 
in developing countries—a common problem in our industry. This also helps us keep 
our transportation-related greenhouse gas emissions low. We currently work with 140 
partners around the globe whose facilities are rigorously evaluated annually on health 
and safety, environmental compliance, material tracking, social responsibility, and other 
Apple mandates.

There are better things to do with waste than put it  
in a landfill. 
We’ve created robust recycling and composting programs to minimize the environ-
mental impact of the waste we produce in our corporate facilities. Our rate of landfill 
diversion at our corporate offices and retail stores remains high, despite a decrease 
to 68 percent, from 74 percent in 2013. We are currently undertaking a detailed waste 
audit of our facilities to identify opportunities for improvement. 

Our multiuse facility in Cork, Ireland, has set the standard for our supply chain by receiving  
the first UL Zero Waste to Landfill validation outside North America. The location handles 
both corporate and manufacturing operations, and none of its 13,400 metric tons of 
annual waste is sent to landfills. The portion of waste the Cork facility sends to be  
incinerated and used for energy is just 3 percent, which is far below the maximum 
10 percent allowed for Zero Waste to Landfill validation.

The Cork facility achieved Zero Waste to Landfill validation through a number of efforts. 
In the factory, the same packaging in which we receive iMac components is reused to 
ship iMac to customers. And all cardboard, foam packaging, plastic trays, electrical  
cables, and pallets are recycled. Even the cooking oil from the campus cafeteria is 
recovered to produce biodiesel fuel.

Apple responsibly manages the small amount of hazardous waste that we produce 
(mostly from research and development). We ensure that any materials that may create 
risks to the environment are treated and disposed of properly. In 2014, the total amount 
of solid waste created by Apple facilities was 4200 metric tons, and the total amount of 
hazardous waste generated was 230 metric tons. 

When we buy on behalf of Apple, we think green.
Apple prioritizes the use of environmentally friendly products and services in our oper-
ations. More than 98 percent of our U.S. office consumables contain post-consumer 
recycled content. The standard office chair contains up to 51 percent recycled content 
and is up to 95 percent recyclable, achieving a GreenGuard Gold Certification. The  
janitorial supplies we procure include 100 percent recycled paper products. And the 
majority of the food served in our Cupertino-area employee cafeterias comes from 
sources within 100 miles.

21

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Everyone should have water to use and reuse.
Water is the world’s most precious resource. So we continue to look for ways to reduce 
water consumption during manufacturing, cooling, landscaping, and sanitation.

To meet the water needs of our offices, data centers, and retail stores across the world, 
Apple used 494 million gallons of water in 2014, which represented a 15 percent 
increase from 2013. This increase is driven primarily by cooling needs at our data centers,  
and we are focusing our water usage reduction efforts on these facilities. Our Maiden, 
North Carolina, data center employs an innovative cooling system that reuses water 
35 times, resulting in a 20 percent reduction in overall water consumption at the 
data center. We are also building our newer data centers in locations that can rely  
heavily on outdoor air for cooling.

At our facilities that receive less dependable rainfall, we installed sophisticated irrigation 
systems that monitor local weather conditions and soil moisture, which led to a 40 percent  
reduction in landscape watering. At some facilities, we’ve achieved further reductions 
thanks to drought-tolerant landscaping and drip irrigation.

In 2014, we made a number of water improvements at our Cupertino headquarters, 
including a significant renovation of the landscaping on our Infinite Loop campus. 
There, we completed our conversion from inefficient overhead spray irrigation to sub-
surface drip irrigation and surface bubblers, which conserves much more water. Across 
our Santa Clara Valley campuses, we planted more than 700 drought-tolerant trees. We 
also converted 2905 square feet of asphalt to permeable landscape, improving ground 
water recharge for natural aquifers in the area.  

Overall, we converted over 130,000 square feet of landscaping to be better suited to 
our climate and to use less water. These efforts translate to an estimated water savings 
of 2.3 million gallons of water per year—about 5 percent yearly.

In 2014, a study of our facility water usage revealed that the industry-standard methods 
we were using over-estimated our water usage. Using our more accurate methodology, 
we reran our 2013 numbers and found that our 2013 water usage was 430 million  
gallons—much less than the 608 million gallons originally estimated. 

To make sure our suppliers are also part of our water conservation efforts, we’ve  
established the Clean Water Program. This initiative helps reduce water use, promote 
water recycling and reuse, and prevent illegal water pollution within our supply chain.

The Clean Water Program has already proved successful at several of our supplier sites, 
including Dongguan Meadville Circuits (DMC), located in China’s Guangdong Province. 
In September 2013, DMC had a nearly 12 percent wastewater reuse rate. After enrolling 
in the Clean Water Program and working with our experts, DMC’s wastewater reuse  
rate climbed to approximately 61 percent by the end of 2014. Learn more about our 
Clean Water Program in Apple’s 2014 Supplier Responsibility Report, available at  
www.apple.com/supplier-responsibility.

22

Water Use by Facility Type (million gallons)

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

2012

Data
Centers

2013

Retail

2014

Corporate

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Toxins

A worker in Shanghai, China, assembles 
an iPhone 5c, which is free of BFRs, PVC, 
and other harmful toxins.

We continue to lead the industry in reducing or eliminating harmful toxic substances  
to keep both people and the environment healthy. We’ve removed many harmful  
substances from our products, and we go to great lengths to make sure they stay that 
way. And our suppliers must adhere to our Regulated Substances Specification, which 
goes beyond the minimum required by law.

No product should be hazardous to your health.  
Or anyone else’s.

Better for the environment.
Good manufacturing processes and responsible recycling minimize toxins in our  
supply chain. That helps keep our land, air, and water free from pollutants. And  
our environmental standards for our suppliers are often higher than those required  
by law.

Better for the people who use them.
No one spends more time with an Apple product than an Apple customer. By minimizing  
or outright eliminating many harmful toxins, we ensure that each product is safe to use, 
year after year. Our power cords are PVC- and phthalate-free.9 Our touchscreens are 
arsenic-free. And our cases and enclosures are BFR-free.

Better for the people who make them.
Apple is committed to providing safe working conditions for the people who make  
our products. Many toxins are restricted not only in the products themselves but also  
in the manufacturing processes. And our suppliers know how seriously we take this.  
Our Regulated Substances Specification requires them to demonstrate compliance  
and subjects them to third-party testing.

These principles are captured in Apple’s Environmental Health and Safety Policy, included 
in Appendix A on page 25.

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014

23

 
The worst toxic offenders.

Be

Hg

Beryllium
Found in copper alloys used to make 
connectors and springs. iPhone 6, 
iPad Air 2, and MacBook were designed 
without the use of beryllium.

Mercury
Present in the fluorescent
lamps that once backlit Mac
displays. Eliminated from our 
displays since 2009.

Pb

As

PVC

Lead
Formerly used in display 
glass and solder. Phased out 
completely from our 
products in 2006.

Arsenic
Traditionally used for clarity  
in glass. Our display glass has 
been arsenic-free since 2008.

Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC)
Still widely used by other
companies in computers, cables,
and power cords. We began
phasing out PVC in 1995.9

BFRs

Pht

Brominated Flame Retardants (BFRs) 
Toxic compounds added to 
plastic enclosures, circuit boards, 
and connectors. Eliminated 
from our products in 2008.

Phthalates
Used to soften plastics in 
cables and powercords. We finished 
eliminating them from our cables 
and power cords in 2013.9

We design our products with greener materials.
We’re conscious of how glass, plastic, metal, and other materials affect our products 
as well as the environment. We lead the industry in reducing or eliminating environ-
mentally harmful substances, and we’re always striving to make our products more 
environmentally friendly. 

Testing for toxins right from the start.
We work closely with our suppliers to make sure our products are free from the harmful 
substances we specify, and we confirm it in our own Environmental Testing Lab. We 
submit our products’ components to rigorous analysis including X-ray fluorescence 
spectroscopy, laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy, and ion chromatography.

We can do a lot. But we can’t do it alone.
We’ve formed our own Green Chemistry Advisory Board to stay in the forefront of 
identifying, minimizing, and eliminating toxins from our supply chain. We have also 
established a roundtable on toxins to learn from top U.S. and international NGOs how 
we can make our products and processes even safer. We’ll continue to seek out and 
take advantage of the best science, data, and solutions to keep both people and the 
planet healthy.

24

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014 
Appendix A

Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy Statement

Mission Statement
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of our 
employees, customers and the global communities where we operate.

We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety management 
practices into all aspects of our business, we can offer technologically innovative  
products and services while conserving and enhancing resources for future generations.

Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health and safety 
management systems and in the environmental quality of our products, processes,  
and services.

Guiding Principles
Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements. We  
will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring ongoing performance results  
and through periodic management reviews.

Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will adopt our  
own standards to protect human health and the environment.

Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible public  
policy that enhance environmental quality, health and safety.

Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety principles and 
practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers.

Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs to Apple 
employees and stakeholders.

Design, manage and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote energy  
efficiency, and protect the environment.

Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve energy and  
materials, and prevent pollution throughout the product life cycle including design, 
manufacture, use, and end-of-life management.

Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to fulfill and  
sustain Apple’s environmental, health and safety management systems and policy.

Luca Maestri 
Senior Vice President and CFO 
January 2015

25
25

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014Appendix B

Carbon Assurance and Review Statements

Apple 2014 Assurance Statement (Pages 27–29)

Corporate Carbon Footprint (CCF) FY14 Review Statement (Pages 30–33)

26

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA 

INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 

Introduction and objectives of work  

Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged by Apple, Inc. (Apple) to conduct an 
independent assurance of select environmental data reported in its 2014 environmental report 
(the Report).  This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the 
scope  of  work  described  below.   The  intended  users  of  the  assurance  statement  are  the 
stakeholders  of  Apple.  The  overall  aim  of  this  process  is  to  provide  assurance  to  Apple’s 
stakeholders  on  the  accuracy,  reliability  and  objectivity  of  select  information  included  in  the 
Report.   

This  information  and  its  presentation  in  the  Report  are  the  sole  responsibility  of  the 
management  of  Apple.    BVNA  was  not  involved  in  the  collection  of  the  information  or  the 
drafting of the Report.  

Scope of Work  

Apple requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following:  

  Assurance of select environmental data and information included in the Report for the 
fiscal year 2014 reporting period (September 29, 2013 through September 27, 2014), 
specifically, in accordance with Apple’s definitions and •  World  Resources 
Institute 
(WRI)/World  Business  Council  for  Sustainable  Development  (WBCSD)  Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol:  

o  Energy: Direct (Therms) and Indirect (Million kilowatt hours (mkWh)) 

o  Renewable Energy Certificates (mkWH) 

o  Water (Total withdrawal) 

o  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions: Direct Scope 1 emissions by weight, Indirect 
Scope  2  emissions  by  weight,  Indirect  Scope  3  emissions  by  weight  (Employee 
Commute and Air Travel) 

o  Waste Quantities and Disposition 

o  Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, 
used to collect, analyze, and review the environmental information reported;  

Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: 

  Text or other written statements associated with the Report 

  Activities outside the defined assurance period  

Methodology  

BVNA undertook the following activities:  

1.  Site  visits  to  Apple  facilities  in  Shanghai,  China;  Tokyo,  Japan;  and  Prineville, 

Oregon; 

2.  Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California; 

3. 

Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple (10 individuals including employees and 
external contractors at the corporate level);  

4.  Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by Apple;  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Audit  of  environmental  performance  data  presented  in  the  Report,  including  a 

detailed review of a sample of data against source data; and 

6.  Review  of  Apple  information  systems  for  collection,  aggregation,  analysis  and 

internal verification and review of environmental data.  

Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for 
external Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent 
assurance.  Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 

The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable assurance for all indicators, and 
we believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.  

Our Findings   

BVNA  verified  the  following  indicators  for  Apple’s  Fiscal  Year  2014  reporting  period 
(September 29, 2013 through September 27, 2014):  

Parameter 

Quantity 

Units 

Boundary/ Protocol 

Natural Gas Consumption:   

9,139,071  

Therms 

Biogas Purchases 

5,403,276 

Therms 

Electricity Consumption: 

845  

Total Renewable Energy 
Certificates 

Applied Renewable Energy 
Certificates (excludes purchases 
for Mesa, AZ facility) 
Scope 1 GHG Emissions 

987 

692 

56,722 

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh) 

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh) 

Million kilowatt 
hours (mkWh) 

metric tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent 
(tCO2e) 

Effective Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
(Scope 1 emissions – Biogas 
purchases) 
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions 

28,486 

tCO2e 

306,675 

tCO2e 

Effective Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
(Electric Consumption – 
Renewable Purchases) 
Scope 3 GHG Emissions 
(Employee Commute & Air Travel) 

63,213 

tCO2e 

266,965 

tCO2e 

Water Withdrawal 

1,839,812 

cubic meters 
(m3) 

Trash  disposed in Landfill 

4,188 

Metric tonnes 

Hazardous Waste (Regulated 
waste) 

Recycled Material (Removal by 
recycling contractor) 

230 

Metric tonnes 

8,707 

Metric tonnes 

Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Invoiced 
Quantities 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide / Invoiced 
quantities & self-generated 

Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol 

Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3) 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 
Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol 

 
 
 
 
 
Our Conclusion 

Based on the assurance process and procedures conducted, we conclude that:  

  The  Energy,  Water,  Waste,  and  Scope  1,  2  &  3  GHG  Emissions  assertions  shown 
above are materially correct and are a fair representation of the data and information; 
and 

  Apple  has  established  appropriate  systems  for  the  collection,  aggregation  and 
analysis  of  relevant  environmental  information,  and  has  implemented  underlying 
internal  assurance  practices  that  provide  a  reasonable  degree  of  confidence  that 
such information is complete and accurate.  

Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 

BVNA  is  an  independent  professional  services  company  that  specializes  in  Quality,  Health, 
Safety,  Social  and  Environmental  management  with  over  180  years  history  in  providing 
independent assurance services, and an annual 2014 revenue of $4.2 billion Euros. 

No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Apple, its Directors or 
Managers beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We 
have conducted this verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict 
of interest.  

BVNA  has  implemented  a  Code  of  Ethics  across  the  business  to  maintain  high  ethical 
standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   

The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting  assurance over environmental, 
social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years 
combined  experience  in  this  field  and  an  excellent  understanding  of  BVNA  standard 
methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports.  

Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 

San Ramon, California  

March 2015 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review and Verification Statement 
Company Carbon Footprint – Scope 3: Product related Carbon Footprint 
for Fiscal Year 2014 

Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 company carbon footprint (CCF) data related to 
the products manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2014.  

1 

Summary 

This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the calculated corporate 
annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle assessment 
(LCA) of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 2014. This review and verification focuses on 
Scope 3 emissions for products sold by Apple Inc. (as defined by WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard).  It is noted that emissions 
relating to the facilities that are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 and 2 emissions) as well 
as business travel and employee commute were subject to a separate third party 
verification and are therefore excluded from the scope of this statement. Confidential data 
relating to product sales and shipments were also excluded from the scope of this 
verification.  

This review and verification covers Apple’s corporate annual greenhouse gas emissions and 
does not replace reviews conducted for individual product LCAs for greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by Apple for individual products 
has been calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/14044: Environmental 
management – Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework / Requirements and 
guidelines. This review and verification furthermore complies with ISO 14064-3: 
Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification 
of greenhouse gas assertions.  

The review of the corporate annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria: 

  The system, boundaries and functional unit are clearly defined 

  Assumptions and estimations made are appropriate 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 

are adequately disclosed 

These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted for individual product 
emissions. The reviewers note that the largest share (98%) of Apple Inc. annual corporate 
carbon footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The 
aforementioned criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a 
view to providing independent feedback that can facilitate continuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  

Data reported by Apple is as follows: 

2014

Manufacturing 
24.763.237 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Transportation 
1.611.744 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Product Use 
7.031.009 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Recycling 
451.775 
[metric tons CO2e] 

Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion with regards to scope 3 corporate carbon footprint 

  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 

information, and 

  has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 

GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting. 

All results and also changes to figures reviewed for fiscal year 2013 are plausible. 

2 

Reviewed Data and Plausibility Check 

A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046-3 has been established in the 
course of this CCF review and verification, defining the level of assurance, objectives, 
criteria, scope and materiality of the verification. 

As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:  

  Sales data for FY2014, excluding accessories 

  Regional distribution of sold units and country specific allocation per product to 15 

major sell-in countries 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Product specific data on transportation including breakdown of air and sea 

shipment 

  Life cycle GHG emissions for all products, differentiating the actual product 

configurations (i.e. memory capacity) 

  Calculation methodology for the company carbon footprint and methodological 

changes implemented in 2014 

  The total company carbon footprint – scope 3 for the fiscal year 2014 

  Detailed analysis of the CCF including: 

o  The breakdown of the CCF into life cycle phases manufacturing, 

transportation, product use and recycling 

o  Detailed product specific split into life cycle phases 

o  The contribution of individual products and product families to the overall 

CCF 

The data and information supporting the GHG assertion were projected (use phase and 
recycling) and historical (i.e. fiscal year 2014 data regarding sales figures, manufacturing, 
transportation). 

This review comprises a check of selected data, which are most influential to the overall 
company carbon footprint. The overall plausibility check addressed the following questions: 

  Are product LCAs referenced correctly? 

  Are results for products, for which no full LCA review was undertaken, plausible? 

  Are carbon emission data for individual products plausible in the light of 

methodological changes as indicated by Apple?  

This review was done remotely. 

3 

Findings 

Prior to this CCF review and verification 7 recent product LCA studies have been reviewed 
successfully against ISO 14040/44. These latest LCA studies cover products which represent 
in total 43,2% of the total scope 3 company carbon footprint.  

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The methodological changes implemented with the 2014 CCF data are confirmed to lead 
to a significant improvement in terms of accuracy of the results. Inevitably this hampers the 
comparability of 2014 results with earlier CCF data. 

The increase in CCF scope 3 total values from 2013 to 2014 is largely due to increased 
sales. Emissions per unit sold are decreasing on a year-to-year basis.   

All questions raised in the course of the review were answered by Apple and related 
evidence was provided where needed.   

4 

Conclusions 

We observe from year to year an improvement of the assessment approach in terms of 
granularity of the used calculation data. This year the transportation and use phase models 
have been enhanced, modelling the sales markets more precisely on the level of individual 
countries. The differentiation of memory configurations for Macs and iPods introduced 
now provides an even more accurate result for the production carbon footprint. 

For all product LCA calculations, where exact data was missing, the principle of a worst-
case approach has been followed and results have been calculated with rather conservative 
estimates regarding e.g. production yield losses and recycling.   

The review has not found assumptions or calculation errors on the CCF data level that 
indicate the scope 3 corporate carbon footprint has been materially misstated. The 
excellent analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    

Berlin, April 9, 2015 

- Karsten Schischke -   
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and 
Reliability Engineering  

- Marina Proske - 
Fraunhofer IZM 
Dept. Environmental and  
Reliability Engineering 

CCF Review and Verification
Client: Apple Inc.

4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix C

Facilities Emissions: Scope 1, 2, and 3 Carbon Emissions Disclosure

Scope 1

Scope 2

Scope 3

Default Emissions

Effective Emissions 
(incl. renewable energy)

Electricity Use

Default Grid Emissions* 

Effective Emissions 
(incl. renewable energy) 

Emissions (travel)

tons CO2e

tons CO2e

million kWh

tons CO2e

tons CO2e

14,425
11,007
556
45
564

804
–

1,449
0
0
0
2,600
746
1,854
6,401
6,401
–
–
23,426

8%

13,160
10,949
560
59
237

715
32
–
609
146
146
0
0
2,812
787
2,025
6,924
6,924
–
–

23,042

8%

15,211
12,231
509
83
337

743
50
390
868
19,360 
19,360 
0
0
0
6,158
3,548
2,610
7,214
7,214
–
–
47,943

39%

12,656
9,238
556
45
564

804
–

1,449
0
0
0
2,600
746
1,854
6,401
6,401
–
–
21,657

11,343
9,132
560
59
237

715
32
–
609
146
146
0
0
2,812
787
2,025
6,924
6,924
–
–

21,225

13,727
10,747
509
83
337

743
50
390
868
2,201
2,201
0
0
0
6,158
3,548
2,610
7,214
7,214
–
–
29,300

235
127
26
18
6

10
6
1
41
138
44
93
121
–
–
–
–
–
–
493

23%

232
130
22
20
9

10
9
2
29
217
104
111
2
159
–
–
–
–
–
–

608

46%

232
144
15
23
5

12
12
9
13
305
160
123
18
3
171
98
72
–
–
–
–
708

68%

82,183
39,428
7,930
10,139
2,141 

4,598
3,243
280
14,424
51,651
22,663
28,988
65,769
–
–
–
–
–
–
199,603

84,611
39,457
6,952
10,635
4,265

4,801
4,946
1,049
12,505
87,732
52,977
33,492
1,263
83,285
–
–
–
–
–
–

59,516
39,428
0
0
2,141 

0
3,243
280
14,424
28,988
0
28,988
65,769
–
–
–
–
–
–
154,273

48,215
25,450
0
0
4,265

0
4,946
1,049
12,505
7,664
0
7,664
0
83,285
–
–
–
–
–
–

255,628

139,164

85,354
43,116
4,400
12,162
2,463

5,320
5,826
7,490
4,578
123,855
75,836
36,959
9,965
1,095
77,425
44,606
32,819
–
–
–
–
286,634

17,503
0
0
0
0

0
5,826
7,490
4,187
0
0
0
0
0
74,002
44,606
29,397
–
–
–
–
91,505

tons CO2e

–

–

–

155,025
–
63,856
91,169
155,025

–

–

–

207,447
–
90,473
116,974

207,447

–

–

–

231,128
–
134,685
96,443
231,128

Fiscal 2011

Location

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Employee travel
Fleet Vehicles
Employee Commute
Business Travel (air and vehicle)

Totals

Emissions reduction from renewable energy 

Fiscal 2012

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Employee travel
Fleet Vehicles
Employee Commute
Business Travel (air and vehicle)

Totals

Emissions reduction from renewable energy 

Fiscal 2013

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Employee travel
Fleet Vehicles
Employee Commute
Business Travel (air and vehicle)

Totals

Emissions reduction from renewable energy 

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014

34

 
 
 
Fiscal 2014

Location

Corporate
Cupertino, CA
Elk Grove, CA
Austin, TX
Other U.S.

Cork, Ireland
Singapore
China
Other International

Data centers
Maiden, NC
Newark, CA
Prineville, OR
Reno, NV

Retail stores
Domestic (U.S.)
International

Employee travel
Fleet Vehicles
Employee Commute
Business Travel (air & vehicle)

Totals

Emissions reduction from renewable energy

Scope 1

Scope 2

Scope 3

Default Emissions

Effective Emissions 
(incl. renewable energy)

Electricity Use

Default Grid Emissions* 

Effective Emissions 
(incl. renewable energy) 

Emissions (travel)

tons CO2e
16,716
14,310
411
148
115

1,000
51
385
296
26,854
26,835
0
18
0
5,355
2,812
2,543
7,778
7,778
–
–
56,702

50%

tons CO2e
15,335
12,929
411
148
115

1,000
51
385
296
18
0
0
18
0
5,355
2,812
2,543
7,778
7,778
–
–
28,486

million kWh

284
181
13
32
5

13
12
11
17
372
188
138
27
19
182
98
84
–
–
–
–
839

80%

tons CO2e
86,842
36,496
2,516
15,149
2,270

7,678
6,852
8,577
7,304
148,320
92,306
38,278
10,392
7,344
82,770
45,041
37,729
–
–
–
–
317,932

tons CO2e
21,555
0
0
0
0

0
6,852
8,577
6,126
0
0
0
0
0
41,658
11,036
30,622
–
–
–
–
63,213

tons CO2e
–

–

–

268,011
–
148,187
119,824
268,011

Notes
Apple’s fiscal year begins approximately October 1 each year.
Scope 1 emissions result from natural gas use for facilities, and gasoline use for fleet vehicles. As is typical, these emissions are tracked separately  
from our 100% renewable energy claim.
Scope 2 emissions result from electricity use for facilities. In addition, Apple owned a facility in Mesa, AZ, that was operated by a supplier, which had default 
grid emissions of 151,279 tons CO2e and effective emissions of 0 tons CO2e. 
Scope 3 emissions reported in this table include only those emissions associated with employee commute and business travel, calculated by employee 
miles traveled. Scope 3 emissions associated with product life-cycle emissions are disclosed separately. 

*Based on utility-scale and regional default grid emission factors (using the most granular data set available).

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014

35

 
1For our facilities, we are now reporting effective emissions instead of gross emissions to better reflect the impact of our  
renewable energy program. All category totals are rounded to the nearest decimal.

2When Apple does acquire renewable energy certificates, we require that they are Green-e Energy certified and come from the 
same NER C region—and preferably the same state—as the Apple facility they support.

3Based on the average residential cost of electricity in the U.S. in 2014 to fully charge the battery once a day for one year; includes 
power consumed by the power adapter when disconnected from the iPhone. 

4Claim based on total energy consumption of desktops categories I1 and I3 in the EPA ENERGY STAR registry as of June 2014.

5Claim based on total energy consumption of integrated desktops category D2 in the EPA ENERGY STAR registry as of June 2014.

6Based on ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Computers Version 6.0. 

7Based on equivalent virgin fiber production from protected forests and virgin fiber used for our product packaging. 

8Based on estimates of the volume of virgin fiber required to produce our packaging and the volume of virgin fiber produced by 
those forests protected through our partnership with The Conservation Fund. 

9With the exception of India and South Korea, where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC replacement.

Updated May 2015 
FY 2014 water use figures were corrected and the Bureau Veritas assurance letter was updated to include additional indicators.

© 2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, iBooks, iMac, iMessage, iPad, iPhone, iPhoto, iTunes, Mac, 
MacBook, MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, OS X, and Siri are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. 
Apple Store and iTunes Store are service marks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service 
mark of Apple Inc. ENERGY STAR is a U.S. registered mark. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be 
trademarks of their respective companies. May 2015

Environmental Responsibility Report  |  2015 Progress Report, Covering FY2014

36

