partners in innovation

2 0 0 6   C i t i z e n s h i p   R e p o R t

about this report

sCope
In the 2006 Microsoft Global Citizenship Report, 
we discuss our key citizenship initiatives and 
activities worldwide, highlight some of our 
more significant accomplishments in fiscal year 
2006, and share our goals for fiscal year 2007.

RepoRting peRiod
This report focuses on Microsoft’s fiscal 
year 2006 (which began July 1, 2005, 
and ended June 30, 2006). All data is for 
that period unless otherwise noted.

RepoRt stRuCtuRe
This report is organized to reflect the 
structure of our Global Citizenship Initiative 
and related activities, because we want our 
stakeholders — employees, customers, partners, 
shareholders, and others—to be able to 
compare our program goals and objectives 
with our results. The report is a combination 
of this print volume, which highlights and 
provides an overview of some key issues, and 
a more detailed online publication that we will 
update annually. In addition, both the print 
and online components of the report provide 
key links to more detailed information on 
Microsoft.com, Microsoft’s corporate Web site.

CuRRenCy
All money figures in this report are in 
U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

teRminology
The terms “Global Citizenship” and “Corporate 
Citizenship,” which are used throughout 
this report, are interchangeable with 
similar terms such as “Corporate Social 
Responsibility” and “Corporate Sustainability.”

global RepoRting initiative (gRi)
The function of the GRI performance 
indicators is to make it easier to compare 
organizational reports on the basis of economic, 
environmental, and social impacts. In the 
online portion of this report, we have included 
references to applicable GRI indicators to assist 
stakeholders in their review and assessment 
of our Global Citizenship Initiative.

more information 

about the GRI performance indicators is 

available at www.globalreporting.org.

table of contents

Executive Welcome  ..................................................  2

Global Citizenship at Microsoft  ................................  3

Security and Internet Safety ......................................  9

Knowledge Economy ...............................................  19

Responsible Business Practices ................................ 41

Our Company .........................................................  54

Looking Ahead  .......................................................  56

Awards  ....................................................................  57

“We know that the most significant problems 
facing our planet cannot be solved without the 
close cooperation of the private sector. Microsoft 
is not only a leader in responsible business 
practices, but also works with us to ensure that 
other businesses will rise to a similar standard.”

— Rich LeimsideR, the Aspen institute

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

executive welcome

Microsoft’s mission is to enable people 

and businesses throughout the world 
to realize their full potential. One 

way we fulfill our mission is by developing 
innovative software that transforms the 
way people work, learn, and communicate. 
Another way is by using our resources and 
expertise to help expand social and economic 
opportunities in communities around the world.

Our company’s greatest strengths are 
our employees’ passion, creativity, and 
dedication, and our strong partnerships with 
thousands of private, public, and community 
organizations. Our people and partnerships 
propel innovation at Microsoft, and they also 
guide our worldwide citizenship efforts.

A few years ago, we set a goal that, by the end of 
this decade, we would help bring the benefits 
of technology to one-quarter of a billion 
underserved people worldwide. We recognize 
that we cannot do this alone. That’s why our two 
flagship digital inclusion programs, Partners 
in Learning and Unlimited Potential, build on 
the strength of partnerships with governments, 
schools, NGOs, and community organizations. 
Working together, we are bringing valuable 
technology skills to teachers, students, and 
others — more than 135 million people so far, 
putting us more than halfway to our goal.

and industry on important technology issues 
such as interoperability and security.

We are constantly expanding our understanding 
of what we must do to be a responsible leader 
and a good corporate citizen, and we are 
always seeking new ways to put partnerships 
and innovation to work to really make a 
difference. Our global citizenship efforts 
represent our mission and values in action, 
and they underscore how creativity and a 
spirit of innovation can make a difference, not 
only in the products we create, but in the way 
we give back to communities worldwide.

By working together with our many partners to 
solve challenging problems, we are optimistic 
that Microsoft can continue to help make 
positive and lasting contributions to society.

Bill Gates 
Chairman

Steven A. Ballmer 
Chief Executive Officer

Our innovative technology and partnerships 
are also helping meet some of society’s toughest 
challenges: assisting law enforcement in the 
fight against online predators with the Child 
Exploitation Tracking System; helping industry 
and government to protect individual privacy 
and fight spammers and identity thieves; and 
enabling people with disabilities to develop 
job skills and live fuller lives through advanced 
tools that make technologies more accessible.

From the beginning, our community investments 
have been inspired by our employees, and it’s 
their passion and commitment that continue to 
drive Microsoft’s efforts to help people in need. 
This is especially true when disaster strikes. Our 
employees are often on the front lines, giving 
help wherever it’s needed and devising unique 
ways to use technology to aid relief efforts.

Another important measure of a company’s 
commitment to corporate citizenship is the way it 
conducts business and works productively with 
all its stakeholders. At Microsoft, everything 
we do is guided by corporate values, codes 
of conduct, and company policies that, for 
example, ensure diversity and fair business 
practices among vendors and suppliers, provide 
for good stewardship of the environment in 
the way we create and package our products, 
and support collaboration with governments 

global citizenship at microsoft

p A R t n e R s   i n   i n n o v A t i o n

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

global citizenship at microsoft

At Microsoft, we bring the same spirit 

of innovation to global citizenship 
that we have always applied to our 
business. Our Global Citizenship Initiative 
combines innovative technology, partnerships, 
and programs to create economic, educational, 
and social opportunities in local communities 
worldwide, and to help foster a more secure 
computing experience for people everywhere.

Our mission is to enable people and businesses 
throughout the world to realize their full 
potential. For more than 30 years, we have 
built our company on that principle, providing 
innovative software and services that help 
people do more with technology, and creating 
innovative partnerships that extend those 
benefits to millions of people we never 
could have reached by working alone.

Innovation is an integral part of our business. It 
characterizes our technology platform, which 
enhances personal productivity and business 
performance while supporting accessibility that 
makes it easier for people with all abilities to 
see, hear, and use computers. Innovation also 
defines our partnerships. These partnerships 
strengthen communities worldwide by 
developing the workforce and helping to build 
local software economies. They provide relief in 
many areas devastated by natural disasters. And 

they work to bring the benefits of technology 
to one-quarter of a billion underserved 
people globally by the end of this decade.

“Technology is an extremely powerful tool, a grand 
enabler of human imagination, innovation, creativity, 
and productivity. Creating innovation with real 
impact, listening carefully to what our customers 
want, and creating amazing products that are 
going to benefit as many other people on the planet 
as possible — that’s really the reason Microsoft 
exists. Innovation is the lifeblood of our business.”

— steve BALLmeR, ceo micRosoft

We are proud of our achievements as an 
industry leader, a global citizen, and an 
active partner to thousands of governments, 
businesses, and community organizations 
around the world — but our work is just 
beginning. Our success in business has given 
us the opportunity, and the responsibility, 
to use our resources and influence to help 
change the world, to make it a better and more 
rewarding place for people everywhere.

We look forward to the challenges — and 
accomplishments—that lie ahead.

the GLoBAL citizenship initiAtive
As a global company, we recognize that 
every country and community where we do 
business has its own set of social, economic, 
and environmental challenges. With that 
in mind, we strive to nurture a spirit of 
innovation throughout our company that 
provides our employees and partners with 
the tools — and inspiration — to meet those 
challenges and turn them into opportunities.

The importance and integral nature of global 
citizenship at Microsoft were underscored 
by Kevin Turner, Microsoft Chief Operating 
Officer, at an internal meeting with employees: 
“Good citizenship is just good business. It’s 
the right thing to do. It’s who we are as a 
company. It’s our commitment to communities 
around the world. It’s really that simple.”

Although our Citizenship programs are 
diverse and tailored to the specific needs of the 
people and communities they serve, they are 
all organized around one of the three central 
themes of our Global Citizenship Initiative:

global citizenship at microsoft       

Since issuing our first Global Citizenship Report 
in 2003, we at Microsoft have continued to 
strengthen our internal organizational structure. 
Just as important, we also are improving and 
extending our external programs to create a 
greater awareness of, and accountability for, the 
economic, social, and environmental issues that 
affect communities and individuals worldwide.

more information 

about the Microsoft Global Citizenship  

Initiative and our progress on each of  

its three central themes is available at  

www.microsoft.com/citizenship.

An Invitation to Our Readers
We appreciate frank and honest feedback, both 
positive and negative, because it helps us to improve. 
We invite you to offer your observations and 
suggestions about this report as well as Microsoft’s 
global citizenship activities. Please send your 
comments to citizenship@microsoft.com.

Improving Security and Internet Safety  
We address the societal challenges of information 
and communications technology — such 
as security, privacy, and children’s safety 
on the Internet — through innovative 
technology and partnerships with industry, 
governments, and law enforcement agencies. 
We also work with our partners to provide 
consumer education and expert guidance 
about online safety to help people protect 
their PCs, themselves, and their families.

Advancing the Knowledge Economy 
We advance the knowledge economy by 
partnering with governments and communities 
around the world on digital inclusion as 
well as on innovation that brings valuable 
technology and skills to more people and 
stimulates the growth of local economies.

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices 
We ensure integrity, transparency, and social 
accountability in our business practices, whether 
complying with the laws of the countries 
where we do business, supporting industry 
standards, adhering to the highest ethical and 
environmental practices, or making sure our 
products interoperate well with those of other 
companies — including our competitors.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

a global citizen — examples of programs around the world

Canada: Providing Access and 
Training to Technology

The Community Access Program (CAP) is a Government of 
Canada initiative that provides Canadians with affordable 
public access to the Internet and the skills they need to use 
it effectively. Together with Pacific Community Networks 
Association, a nonprofit organization representing 22 
CAP Networks in British Columbia, Microsoft will be 
supporting the creation of an online community focused 
on teaching the art and science of game development.

Philadelphia: Building the School of the Future

Microsoft and the School District of Philadelphia joined 
forces to create a 750-student high school — opened  
in September 2006 — that embodies innovation  
and technology. The goal of the partnership is to  
create a technology-based educational model that  
can be replicated in communities around the globe.  
Learn more about the school at www.microsoft.com/ 
education/schooloffuture.mspx.

New Mexico: Reaching Out to the Community

In April 2006, Microsoft took part in 
TechFest at the Gathering of Nations 
in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the 
largest Native American Pow Wow 
held in North America. Microsoft, in 
partnership with HP, helped bring 
technology to Native American youth 
by providing TechFest with free PCs and monitors.

Mexico: Supporting NGOs

In fiscal year 2006, Microsoft funding will support the 
Fortaleza program of Fundación Merced. The goal of the 
Fortaleza program is to build the professional capacities of 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in the Mexico City 
metropolitan area by helping them adopt technology to 
enhance their productivity, efficiency, and management.

Peru: Removing Barriers for Speakers of 
Native American Language

In collaboration with three 
Peruvian universities, Microsoft 
developed the Quechua 
Language Pack to make 
Microsoft® Windows® and 
Office products more accessible. 
Released in June 2006, the Quechua Language Pack 
is expected to have a significant impact on improving 
technology access for the approximately 10 million 
Quechua speakers in South America, who are a 
traditionally underserved community in the region.

Brazil: Leading the Way to Innovation

Microsoft Innovation Centers 
(MICs), found throughout 
Brazil, are designed to foster 
strong, self-sustaining local 
software economies by providing 
customers and partners with a 
comprehensive set of programs 
and services. Based in part on the successes achieved 
in Brazil, an additional 30 MICs will open in 2006, with 
facilities planned in India, Korea, and South Africa.

Argentina: Fostering Social Inclusion

The Committee for Democracy in Information 
Technology (CDI) is a Latin American NGO that fosters 
social inclusion and active citizenship by promoting 
the use of information and communication technology 
(ICT) in low-income communities. In Argentina, CDI 
operates 40 community technology centers (CTCs) 
and has provided training to more than 2,000 people. 
Microsoft’s 2006 Unlimited Potential (UP) grant will 
provide funding for 20 more CTCs and two regional 
offices to manage existing centers more efficiently.

Portugal: Ensuring Employability for Europe

In support of its 21st Century Skills for Employability 
initiative, Microsoft launched a new digital literacy 

curriculum. The new curriculum will be offered free to 
governments, academia, and NGOs, and will be accessible 
online. In addition, Microsoft announced that it will increase 
the number of Microsoft IT Academies from 1,900 to more 
than 8,000 by 2010, with the goal of providing local access 
to technology skills training for more than 6 million adults.

Belgium: Helping SMEs Find Funding

The European Union Grants 
Advisor (EUGA) program is 
a collaborative effort led by 
Microsoft to help small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), 
as well as local and regional 
governments, better understand 
and use EU funding opportunities. SME owners are 
able to find information on the EUGA Web site about 
what funding is available and which programs they may 
be eligible for. More information on this program can 
be found at www.microsoft.com/emea/euga/.

Italy: University Tours

In order to demonstrate Microsoft’s commitment to 
innovation, facilitate communication, and strengthen 
the relationships between Microsoft and university 
students and professors, Microsoft held events at 
11 universities throughout Italy. More than 1,500 
students and professors have attended an event, which 
included a speech from a Microsoft executive.

Poland: Delivering Skills Training to the 
Unemployed in Rural Areas

The Your Chance for Employment 
program provides ICT skills 
training for the unemployed 
living in rural areas of Poland. 
The training is designed to help 
increase job opportunities for 
the unemployed, build the skills of those who have jobs 
but lack critical ICT skills, and teach entrepreneurial 
skills for those who want to start small businesses. 

global citizenship at microsoft       

Afghanistan: Supporting Women 
and the Interim Government

Japan: Removing the Digital  
Divide Between NPOs

Russia: Leveraging ICT Curriculum

In Russia, a 2006 Unlimited Potential grant will support 
Project Harmony — a program supporting 21 select IDEA 
centers designed to provide improved technology access 
and skills training in underserved areas of the country. The 
program will offer 30 hours of introductory technology 
training each month by using Microsoft’s UP curriculum. It 
is expected to train more than 8,500 people in one year.

Morocco: Developing IT Skills for Adolescents

In February 2006, Microsoft signed a partnership with 
the Moroccan Secretary of State in charge of Youth and 
the UNDP for the expansion of the Ajialcom project. 
This project is setting up 100 new CTCs throughout 
Morocco to help close the digital divide, and train 
and educate young people to use IT. It is expected 
that about 30,000 young people will be trained in IT 
skills over a period of one year through the centers.

In Afghanistan, the Interim Authority, the United 
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and other 
organizations are driving the rebuilding of the country’s 
basic social, political, and economic structure after years 
of instability. Microsoft is donating cash and software 
to help create 15 CTCs, where as many as 25 percent 
of the people expected to be served will be female.

India: Generating Self-Sustaining Employment

Grameen Sanchar Society (GRASSO) seeks to enable a self-
sufficient rural West Bengal by establishing self-employment 
plans for generating opportunities in the villages. With the 
support of Microsoft, GRASSO will set up 1,500 Community 
Information and Services Centers to host for-profit IT 
services and provide free IT skills training over two years 
to more than 67,800 people across rural West Bengal.

Uganda: Aiding Child Refugees

China: Encouraging Skills Development

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
recently launched ninemillion.org to bring attention to 
the plight of the world’s refugee youth. Founded by Right 
to Play, the campaign aims to create a global community 
dedicated to giving the world’s refugee youth the chance 
to learn and play. Microsoft supports ninemillion.org 
through MSN® by hosting and localizing the Web site 
content in nine languages. More information on the 
program can be found at www.ninemillion.org.

South Africa: Promoting Accessibility

QuadPara is a South African organization offering 
quadriplegics, paraplegics, and people with other 
disabilities a variety of services including helping to 
develop skills needed for employment. A Microsoft 
grant in fiscal year 2006 will further the availability of 
accessible technology in the QuadPara center, and 
through the use of Microsoft technology, the center’s 
patrons will be able to use assistive devices better.

Migrant workers in China face 
many challenges and often lack 
the opportunity to acquire the 
skills needed to find better jobs. 
The Beijing Young Entrepreneurs’ 
Association — in cooperation 
with Microsoft and government, 
community, and educational institutions — will establish 
CTCs in Beijing to provide IT skills training to more than 
1,000 migrant workers. The training will help migrant 
workers improve their employment skills and better 
integrate into their community.

Hong Kong: Refurbishing Student PCs

Despite the affluence of the general population in Hong 
Kong, more than 1 million people live in poverty. The 
Hong Kong Council of Social Service is working to 
address this issue and, under the Microsoft Authorized 
Refurbisher program, plans to donate 20,000 refurbished 
PCs in 2006 to school-age children living in poverty.

At the Non-Profit Organization 
(NPO) Day held this April 
in Tokyo, a new program 
supporting the elimination 
of the digital divide between 
NPOs was announced. The NPO 
Partnership Program will provide IT tools and templates 
needed for member and financial management, event 
operations, and daily work, as well as a digital literacy 
curriculum to help NPO users acquire vital IT skills.

Australia: Helping Seniors Participate  
in the Digital Economy

The percentage of Australia’s 
population aged 65 and 
over is increasing, creating 
greater demand for accessible 
technology and training for 
seniors. The Australian Seniors 
Computer Clubs Association (ASCCA) is working to 
keep seniors engaged in the Australian economy by 
providing practical IT skills and knowledge training. With 
110 Seniors Centers under the Microsoft UP umbrella, 
ASCCA will train 16,000 Australian seniors in 2006.

New Zealand: Creating New Tools 
to Preserve Ancient Cultures

The Maori language in New Zealand was on the verge 
of extinction until a revival in the 1970s and 1980s. 
Despite the revival, it remains an endangered language. 
In late 2005, Microsoft released a Maori Language 
Pack for Office 2003 and Windows XP to facilitate the 
use of computers by Maori speakers. Microsoft’s work 
is an important step in preserving and promoting a 
vital piece of Maori culture for generations to come.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

security road shows on the information highway

PC security check available to everyone in 
Germany, Microsoft organized a truck tour 
through major cities. At each stop, people could 
consult with IT professionals and perform 
a full security check on their 
PCs. To enable security checks 
for other Germans, Microsoft 
distributed CDs and videos, 
provided online and offline 
checklists, and worked with a 
network of certified consultants.

In Sweden, the Livstid (Lifetime) 
Project — a partnership between 
Microsoft, the Swedish Media 
Council, and the Swedish 
National Agency for School 
Improvement — educated teachers and 
students about the risks young people 
may face when they use the Internet.

And the Get Net Safe Tour — a joint initiative 
of a dozen business, government, and 
nonprofit partners — visited 12 major 
U.S. cities to raise public awareness about 
computer security and Internet safety.

This year, Microsoft took its security 
message on the road — from Asia to 
Europe and across the United States.

to the specific challenges and needs of each 
audience, Microsoft shared its latest security 
strategies with more than 3,400 professionals.

During a security tour through the Philippines, 
Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Vietnam, 
Microsoft discussed common security issues 
facing computer users. Tailoring the message 

Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer traveled to Berlin 
for the second summit on security and the 
information society in Germany. As part of 
a broader commitment to help make a free 

security and internet safety

A   m o R e   t R u s t w o R t h y   e x p e R i e n c e

10       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

security and internet safety

In 2002, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates 

announced a companywide commitment 
to make computing a more trustworthy 

experience for all of our customers by 
developing software that is more secure and 
reliable — software designed to help people 
protect their privacy and ensure that they and 
their families can have a safer online experience.

Trustworthy computing and online safety are 
ongoing priorities for us, and we are making 
progress toward those goals through a powerful 
combination of technology innovation and 
investment, collaboration and leadership on 
key issues through strategic partnerships, 
and prescriptive education and guidance.

We develop innovative technology to help parents 
monitor and control their children’s Internet use, 
and to help consumers protect their privacy and 
personal data by blocking spam e-mail, phishing 
scams, and malicious software. We collaborate 
closely with industry, government, academic, 
and law enforcement partners on strategies to 
make computing safer and more trustworthy 
for all users, and to prevent and prosecute 
online crime. And we offer customers, teachers, 
parents, and children expert guidance and 
education to help them meet the ever-changing 
challenges of security and online safety.

pARtneRships with industRy, 
LAw enfoRcement, And nGos
Microsoft recognizes its responsibility as an 
industry leader to help combat global cybercrime. 
We believe that working to make the Internet 
safer for today’s users and future generations 
is, quite simply, the right thing to do. We 
also realize that no one group can tackle the 
challenge of Internet safety. Accordingly, we 
work collaboratively with industry partners, 
government agencies, law enforcement officials, 
NGOs, and other influential people and 
organizations to improve safety, privacy, and 
security through enforcement efforts, technology 
tools, and education and awareness campaigns.

partnerships to enhance children’s online safety

Microsoft worked 
with Canadian police 
and international law 
enforcement agencies 
to develop the Child 
Exploitation Tracking 
System (CETS), a unique and innovative software 
tool that helps protect children and reduce 
child exploitation online, and increases the 
effectiveness of investigators and police agencies. 
Using CETS, police agencies can manage, search, 
analyze, and share huge volumes of information 
and evidence, cross-reference obscure data 

relationships, and use social-network analysis 
to identify communities of offenders.

CETS began producing results almost 
immediately. In November 2004, while it 
was still being tested, CETS created a link 
connecting child pornography crimes across 
three continents, which led to the rescue of a 
four-year-old in Toronto, Canada. Since then, 
CETS has contributed to several investigations 
that have crossed police jurisdictions and 
international borders, creating connections 
that have led to the apprehension of more 
than 40 online offenders and the rescue of 
children in many different countries.

CETS was conceived after Sergeant Paul Gillespie, 
who was a detective with the Toronto Police 
Service’s Child Exploitation Section, sent an e-
mail message to Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates in 
2003, explaining that he and other police officers 
were fighting a losing battle in their efforts to stop 
child exploitation online. Child predators were 
becoming increasingly adept at using technology 
to exploit children while keeping their identities 
hidden, but the police weren’t keeping pace 
in their use of technology to identify, arrest, 
and convict these criminals. Gillespie asked 
for help, and Microsoft provided a solution.

To develop CETS, Microsoft worked with 
law enforcement agencies around the world, 
including the Toronto Police Service and the 
Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Microsoft 
contributed technical expertise and resources 
to develop a system that was designed by 
law enforcement, for law enforcement.

The success of CETS as a tool to help 
international law enforcement officials protect 
children has attracted widespread attention. 
In June 2006, Indonesia adopted CETS after 
sending Indonesian police officers to Toronto 
to see how CETS was being used in Canada. 
Several other countries are considering 
deploying CETS, and more countries are 
expected to adopt the system in the near future.

“CETS puts together the work of hundreds 
of police agencies in one place. The tool can 
establish links from the different agencies 
that police wouldn’t necessarily make.”

— coRpoRAL GARRy BeLAiR, technoLoGy 

mAnAGeR with the RoyAL cAnAdiAn 

mounted poLice’s nAtionAL chiLd 

expLoitAtion cooRdinAtion centeR

cambodia — protecting children from predators
Cambodia has become an international trouble 
spot for child exploitation and human trafficking, 
fueled by foreign pedophiles who prey on poor 
Cambodian children and use the Internet to 
produce and disseminate child pornography. 
According to the UNICEF report “Children 
on the Edge: Protecting Children from Sexual 
Exploitation and Trafficking in East Asia and the 
Pacific,” as many as one-third of sex workers in 
Cambodia are children under 18 years of age.

In October 2005, Microsoft joined Britain’s 
National Criminal Intelligence Service and 
the National Crime Squad to offer a two-week 
seminar to about 150 Cambodian, Thai, 
and Indonesian law enforcement officials 
and humanitarian workers. The training 
included a range of computer skills, from 
Internet basics to network security, as well 
as how to trace sex offenders online.

Before the seminar, many of the Cambodian 
police and prosecutors who received the training 
had never used a computer or the Internet. This 
has contributed to Cambodia’s difficulties in 
addressing the human trafficking in child sex 
workers. The training offered by Microsoft 
and its partners is, we hope, changing that.

security and internet safety       11

Child Safety — Employee Volunteering

“The impact was astonishing — all groups were attentive 
and engaged with the materials. Many had not made the 
link to strangers …the local PC was excellent and was able 
to connect my online world to their offline experiences.”

“Anyway, thanks for giving me a chance to put 
something back. I have really enjoyed my day and 
will look to see how else I might get the message 
across through my school governor network.”

“My final comment would be just to say that this was 
the BEST and most fulfilling community activity I have 
ever undertaken during my eight years at Microsoft.”

“I’ve just — five minutes ago — finished three 
runs of this presentation to a total of 840 pupils 
in years 7, 8, and 9 at Philip Morant school in 
Colchester. The impact was astonishing.”

“The children did you proud, and I can honestly 
say it was one of the most rewarding days I have 
had in the 12 years I have been at Microsoft.”

“The school was enthusiastic; we did all three year 
groups — as well as a staff session at lunchtime 
and a parents session. The school will use the 
Know IT All resource kit almost immediately; they 
are doing Internet safety this week in IT.”

— Microsoft UK employees at the  
Getting to Know IT All volunteer event

1       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

“In Cambodia, the 
Internet and child 
safety are deeply 
connected, but they 
are connected in a way 
that may not seem 

obvious when we talk about protecting our 
children online,” said Charles Ray, former 
U.S. Ambassador to Cambodia. “The truth is, 
many Cambodian children have never used 
a computer and may never, in their lives, use 
the Internet … but Cambodian children are 
abused daily by the pedophiles that use the 
Internet and computers to plan, coordinate, 
and facilitate abuse of children in Cambodia.”

enfance en ligne — children’s 

online safety in france
Microsoft organized Enfance en ligne in 
partnership with the National Union of 
Family Associations (an important NGO that 
represents 120 local community organizations 
and is the French government’s primary 
partner on family issues) and Defenseur des 
Enfants (the Children’s Ombudsman Office 
under the patronage of the Prime Minister). 
Enfance en ligne was the first conference on 
children’s online safety ever held in France.

Enfance en ligne brought together parent and 
family associations, public authorities, and 
industry representatives. The goals of the 
conference were to initiate public discussion 
about child safety in conjunction with the 
Family Ministry Conference in September 
2005, and to teach parents how to keep 
their children safe online through smart 
online behavior and the use of technology 
that features built-in parental controls.

Approximately 300 
people attended the 
conference, which 
featured roundtable 
discussions and 
workshops that 

focused on parental controls for computers, 
mobile phones, and video games. In a postevent 
survey, 93 percent of respondents said they felt 
better informed to guide children as a result of 
the conference. Approximately 20 journalists 
attended the event and published 25–30 positive 
news stories that helped to further inform the 
public about the issues of children’s online 
safety and the resources available to families.

The conference sponsors developed a parents’ 
guide to children’s online safety. The National 
Union of Family Associations and other NGOs 
distributed 40,000 of these guides, another 
1,700 were downloaded from the Microsoft.com 
site, and 250,000 were shipped with a popular 
family magazine. The sponsors also launched an 
educational Web site, Décode le Web  
(www.decodeleweb.com), which uses an online  
game to teach children 11–15 years old 
how to use the Internet safely. The site, a 
French adaptation of the MSN UK Websafe 
Crackerz site (www.websafecrackerz.com/), 
had 9,000 visitors the first month.

technoLoGy innovAtion
Security and Internet safety are top innovation 
priorities for Microsoft. We are committed to 
delivering software, services, and best practices 
that help protect customers’ data, systems, 
and networks. We are investing in technology 
fundamentals that make our products more 
secure, and innovations that provide layered 
defenses against cybercrime and many other 
threats to security, privacy, and online safety.

security and internet safety       13

empowering parents with parental controls
We are building parental controls into many 
of our most popular products and services, 
including Windows Vista™, Windows Live™, 
Xbox®, and MSN. These controls help parents 
protect their children from inappropriate content 
and unwelcome contacts online. Our parental 
control tools also incorporate guidance from 
recognized experts, including advice about 
age-appropriate content from the American 
Academy of Pediatrics in Windows Live 
and game ratings from independent ratings 
boards such as the Entertainment Software 
Rating Board in Xbox and Xbox 360™.

“For Microsoft, family-safe computing is essential 
to what we do every day. We interact with parents 
and kids across all of our consumer products, 
because we want them to have a great experience 
with our technology. We want them to have fun 
and we want them to learn, so it is important 
that we provide the tools and information they 
need to make intelligent choices and to feel 
comfortable with the technology they’re using.” 

— RoBeRt (RoBBie) BAch, pResident, 

enteRtAinment And devices 

division At micRosoft

windows Live and windows vista  

parental controls
Microsoft is incorporating parental 
control tools into products like Windows Live 
and Windows Vista to help families create a 
safer, more secure, and more enjoyable online 
experience for children. These tools enable 
parents to control and monitor their children’s 
Internet use by creating customized settings 
that are appropriate for each child and by 
reviewing reports on his or her Internet use.

Windows Live Family Safety Settings is a Web-
based service that includes Web content filtering, 
activity reporting, and contact management 
features. These settings apply to online content 
and services, including other Windows Live 
services such as MSN Messenger and MSN 
Spaces. Microsoft will make Windows Live 
Family Safety Settings available at no charge 
and, because it is part of the Windows Live 
Web-based services, users can access settings 
and reporting functionality from any PC 
connected to the Internet — offering parents 
greater flexibility in how they monitor and 
manage their children’s online activity.

Surfing Safely in Latin America
In Latin America, Microsoft teamed with the Ricky 
Martin Foundation to launch Navega Protegido to 
promote online safety for children. Martin, two-time 
Grammy Award winner and Goodwill Ambassador to 
UNICEF, taped three educational videos—each one 
in English, Spanish, and Portuguese — to provide 
children, teachers, parents, and other adult family 
members with the tools and information they need 
to protect children from online hazards such as 
sexual predators and inappropriate content. 

The videos will be distributed over the Internet, 
at campaign events, and to millions of children 
throughout Latin America. Two of the videos address 
children 7 to 11 years old. The third video addresses 
parents, teachers, and other adult mentors. Both 
children and adults can find more information 
about Internet safety on the Navega Protegido 
Web site at www.navegaprotegido.org.

Martin, who is well-known for his commitment to 
child welfare, established the Ricky Martin Foundation 
to advocate for children around the world in critical 
areas such as social justice, education, and health. 
The online safety campaign has attracted support 
from more than 40 major sponsors such as Visa, Intel, 
HP, and Citibank as well as many Latin American 
governments and businesses. Microsoft and the 
foundation hope to expand the campaign globally.

1       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

The parental controls built into Windows Vista 
help provide security and safety functionality 
to the computer on which it is installed and 
provides functionality for the management of 
offline activity as well — such as PC games. 
Windows Vista’s new parental controls 
can help parents feel comfortable that their 
children are using the Internet safely by:

§  Limiting when and for how long 
their children use the computer.

§  Controlling which Web sites their 
children can visit and limiting the 
programs their children can run.

§  Restricting access to computer games 

(including online games with Xbox Live®) 
based on title, content, or independent ratings.

§  Providing detailed reports about 
their children’s computer usage.

Additional information 

about Windows Live Family Safety Settings is 

available at www.microsoft.com/presspass/

features/2006/mar06/03-13familysafety.mspx.

windows Live search
Parents can set the SafeSearch feature 
in Windows Live Search to Moderate 

(the default setting) to automatically filter out 
sexually explicit Web sites and images. For a 
higher level of protection, parents can increase 
the SafeSearch setting to Strict, which causes 
Windows Live Search to filter out sexually 
explicit text as well as sexually explicit images.

xbox 360 and xbox Live
Individual players can use 
Family Safety Settings 
in the Xbox 360 game 
console and the Xbox 
Live service to customize 
their own settings, and parents can limit the 
games their children play, whom they play 
with, the movies they watch, and their online 
and offline experience — even when they are 
away from home. The Family Safety Settings 
for Xbox 360 and Xbox Live support all major 
game ratings systems used in every part of the 
world — from the United States to Australia.

In addition to building Family Safety Settings 
into the Xbox 360 console, Microsoft 
has partnered with elected officials, 
nongovernmental agencies, and retailers to 
educate consumers about Family Safety Settings 
and other resources that parents can use to 

protect their children from inappropriate 
video game content. The campaign includes 
a digital literacy curriculum for parents, a 
grassroots effort to reach families in their 
communities, and a toolkit for retailers. 
This initiative is part of Microsoft’s ongoing 
commitment to promote responsible gaming.

Additional information 

about Microsoft Xbox 360 Family Settings is 

available at www.microsoft.com/athome/security/

children/xbox_360_family_settings.mspx.

security by design
The Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) is a 
process designed to train Microsoft developers, 
testers, and program managers to develop 
code that is more secure, and to test and review 
Microsoft products for security. SDL includes 
mandatory security checkpoints at each phase 
of software development for many of our 
products, and a rigorous security review that 
products subject to SDL must pass before they 
can be released. The SDL process is continually 
improved and updated with best practices and 
new information learned from the Microsoft 
Security Response Center, which provides 
rapid, targeted security responses whenever 
software vulnerabilities are discovered.

suppoRtinG LeGisLAtion
As an innovative technology company whose 
products are helping to transform many aspects 
of personal and professional life for millions of 
people worldwide, Microsoft has a responsibility 
to work with lawmakers and law enforcement 
agencies to develop laws and policies that help 
ensure online safety, security, and privacy.

Because cybercrime crosses jurisdictional and 
international boundaries, Microsoft is working 
with governments around the world to enact 
legislation that prohibits the distribution 
of deceptive e-mail or spyware, protects 
individual privacy, empowers consumers, and 
preserves the health and vitality of legitimate 
e-commerce. And we’re making progress. The 
worldwide proliferation of spam, phishing, 
malicious code, and spyware attacks has 
spurred numerous legislative bodies to 
adopt laws addressing these cybercrimes.

Windows Vista, Microsoft’s next-generation 
operating system, builds on a 30-year legacy 
of technical excellence, industry collaboration, 
and customer-focused product development 
to deliver the most secure version of Windows 
ever. Built to be more secure from the ground 
up, Windows Vista introduces important new 
features and functionality designed to provide 
layered defenses against malware threats, 
intrusions, and data breaches. It provides 
corporate and personal data enhanced protection 
from hackers, malicious software, and theft.

One of the most recent security innovations 
from Microsoft is Windows Live OneCare, an 

all-in-one, always-on 
PC care service that 
is like a “pit crew” 
for PCs. Windows 
Live OneCare 
performs a wide 

range of maintenance tasks and provides 
automatic security updates, antivirus and 
firewall protection, and backup and restore 
features, so that customers can focus on enjoying 
their online experience without worrying about 
how to keep their PCs running smoothly.

security and internet safety       1

Helping Law Enforcement Officials 
Track Cybercriminals
Microsoft launched the Global Phishing Enforcement 
Initiative to expand its ongoing efforts to prevent 
and prosecute Internet fraud worldwide through 
consumer protection and innovative partnerships with 
governments, law enforcement agencies, and various 
industries. In fiscal year 2006 alone, Microsoft initiated 
legal action against more than 100 alleged online 
criminals in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.

In January 2006, for example, the National Services 
to Combat Organized Crime (NSCOC) in Bulgaria 
arrested eight individuals for allegedly running 
an international phishing operation that stole 
more than $50,000 from MSN users in the United 
States, Germany, and the United Kingdom.

Nicknamed the MBAM (Microsoft Billing Account 
Management) Gang by investigators, the cybercriminals 
allegedly contacted MSN customers with e-mail 
messages that looked as though they were sent by MSN 
customer service representatives. The phishers, who 
launched attacks in 11 countries, asked MSN users to 
update personal financial data, and then used the stolen 
information to make purchases or initiate express money 
transfers. Microsoft assisted the NSCOC by providing 
investigative and technical support, enabling Bulgarian 
authorities to identify and arrest MBAM Gang members.

1       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

A call for federal privacy Legislation 

in the united states
In November 2005, Microsoft Senior Vice 
President and General Counsel Brad Smith 

appeared before the 
U.S. Congressional 
Internet Caucus to 
advocate federal 
privacy legislation. The 
proposed legislation 
would not only coordinate privacy protections 
within the United States, but also harmonize 
and align U.S. protections with those offered 
by countries around the world. Smith said 
federal privacy legislation should establish 
baseline privacy protections for consumers 
and also provide organizations with a uniform 
standard on which they can build effective 
privacy policies and compliance efforts.

But the potential of information technology to 
drive further social and economic advances 
depends on building and maintaining a solid 
foundation of trust. Individuals will not take 
full advantage of the Internet or any other 
commercial medium if they believe their 
personal information could be compromised. 
Effective federal legislation will help provide 
consumers with the confidence and knowledge 
that the legitimate companies they do business 
with are following an established set of privacy 

practices. Smith told the caucus that Microsoft 
believes it is the right time for federal privacy 
legislation because it has become increasingly 
clear that a comprehensive approach is needed to 
help protect consumers from identity theft and 
other misuses of their personal information.

to learn more 

about Microsoft’s views on privacy legislation, see 

www.microsoft.com/presspass/features/2005/nov 

05/11-03privacy.mspx and www.microsoft.com/press 

pass/press/2005/nov05/11-03dataprivacypR.mspx.

privacy Legislation worldwide
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is 
the premier forum for facilitating economic 
growth, cooperation, trade, and investment 
in the Asia-Pacific region. Microsoft has been 
a major sponsor of APEC for the past three 
years and has participated at the Leaders/CEO 
Summit and in a number of APEC committees 
and working groups on the issues of privacy, 
online safety, and security. Microsoft and 
other APEC members have endorsed the 
APEC Privacy Framework to encourage the 
development of appropriate information privacy 
protection and as a means to ensure the free 
flow of information in the Asia-Pacific region.

The proposed APEC Privacy Framework 
starts from the principle that the flow of 
information between countries is crucial to 
trade and economic development. It reflects 
the region’s commitment to balancing 
privacy protections with the need to avoid 
unnecessary barriers to the flow of data. 
Based on a common understanding of the 
privacy protections consumers expect, and 
acknowledging the political and cultural 
differences between nations in the region, the 
APEC Privacy Framework provides guidance 
and direction to member countries.

Microsoft believes that the advantage of this 
approach is that it enables countries to adopt 
legislation that effectively protects their citizens’ 
personal information while also maintaining 
some level of consistency throughout the region. 
Legislation based on this framework will make it 
easier for both local and multinational companies 
to efficiently and profitably offer products and 
services to any customer in APEC countries.

In May 2006, the International Association 
of Privacy Professionals (IAPP), the world’s 

largest association in 
this field, brought its 
signature privacy 
networking program 
on a three-city tour 
to Sydney, Singapore, 

and Tokyo. The tour was cosponsored by 
Microsoft and Ernst & Young, and supported 
locally by public- and private-sector companies. 
The IAPP Asia-Pacific Tour attracted more 
than 250 privacy professionals from consumer, 
business, and government organizations.

The purpose of the tour was to create a 
dialogue about the increasingly important 
issue of privacy and data protection between 
a growing and nascent group of Asia-Pacific 
privacy professionals. The tour was timely 
for Singapore, where data protection 
legislation is expected to be announced by 
the Ministry of Information, Communication, 
and Arts (MICA) in the near future.

Many governments and regional organizations 
around the world have affirmed their 
commitment to privacy laws that do not 
unnecessarily impede e-commerce and 
international trade. Still, many of the differences 
between approaches to privacy protection around 
the world continue to create friction in the flow of 
data between, and within, nations and regions.

“Many privacy-related policy problems arise 
because we live in an increasingly interconnected 
world. Communication and collaboration are 
continuously expanding; online commerce and 
banking are growing at a rapid rate; and people are 
using computers in almost every aspect of their daily 
lives. As a result, we face increasing challenges in 
maintaining privacy and confidentiality. At Microsoft, 
we are building privacy-enabling technologies into 
our products that strike a balance between the 
collection, transmission, storage, and use of data.”

— cRAiG mundie, micRosoft’s chief 

ReseARch And stRAteGy officeR

security and internet safety       1

Microsoft Helps Neutralize Antinny Virus in Japan
Microsoft works closely with governments, law 
enforcement agencies, and industry partners around the 
world to limit the spread of computer viruses and the 
damage they cause. But the Antinny virus was an unusual 
case that illustrates the depth of our commitment to 
making computing a safe experience for all users.

The Antinny virus first appeared in Japan in March 
2004, overloading Web servers at the Association 
of Copyright for Computer Software and forcing the 
group to shut down its site. The virus spread quickly 
through peer-to-peer connections to thousands 
of PCs that unknowingly attacked and overloaded 
servers at ISPs throughout Japan, threatening to 
make the Internet inaccessible to Japanese users.

After struggling for a year to neutralize the virus, the 
IT community in Japan asked Microsoft for help. 
Some people worried that Microsoft might not want 
to get involved, since the virus was not affecting 
users of Windows directly. But Microsoft responded 
immediately, working with Japanese companies to 
isolate 30 different strains of the virus and to create a 
remedy that was added to the company’s Malicious 
Software Removal Tool for delivery to users.

When the new tool was released, approximately 
40 percent of the damage caused by the virus 
was rapidly eliminated. Within a month, the virus 
had been removed from more than 200,000 PCs, 
and before long that number had doubled.

1       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

microsoft and the u.n. partner on children’s online safety

§	Building a legal framework to 

protect children by broadening each 
nation’s existing laws to include 
online safety

§	Involving many different 

stakeholders, from parents and 
teachers to government agencies 
and law enforcement officials

§	Working through NGOs at the grassroots level

§	Increasing public awareness and providing 

clear guidelines for keeping children safe online

In addition, the U.N. and Microsoft jointly 
developed a toolkit that can help any country 
or organization set up and maintain an Internet 
Safety Program to educate and support children, 
parents, teachers, and community leaders. The 
toolkit includes training materials, educational 
resources, and activities. It was launched at 
the official presentation of the U.N. Secretary 
General’s report on Violence Against Children in 
October 2006.

In June 2005, Microsoft took part in the 
United Nations Middle East and North 
Africa (MENA) Regional Consultation on 
Violence Against Children. The consultation, 
held in Cairo, brought together more than 
600 government representatives, NGOs, 
activists, media professionals, and young 
people from the region. It was part of a 

global study on violence against children 
commissioned by the U.N. Secretary General.

Microsoft explained how the Internet is 
transforming childhood worldwide, making 
online safety for children important to all 
nations. Microsoft proposed a strategic 
plan of action with four main pillars:

knowledge economy

R e A L i z i n G   p o t e n t i A L

0       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

knowledge economy

In today’s economy, knowledge is the new 

currency, and technology is the tool most 
commonly used to transfer, share, and 
apply that knowledge. As a result, technology 
access and skills have become the keys to 
economic viability for a growing number of 
people and communities around the world.

Through innovative partnerships with 
governments, educators, NGOs, and other 
industry leaders, Microsoft is expanding digital 
inclusion. We do this by providing technology 
access and skills training to a wide range of 
people in different life circumstances — from 
educators and students who teach and learn 
in traditional classroom settings to the 
unemployed and underemployed, women and 
youth, and people with disabilities who learn 
in community technology centers (CTCs).

We work closely with NGOs worldwide, 
finding ways to help them build their capacity 
and extend their services to more people.

We make sure our products are accessible to 
people who may have difficulty using standard 
technology because of physical or cognitive 
issues, whether they experience only mild 
impairments or severe disabilities. And we 
provide a platform that enables other companies 
to develop innovative devices that make it 
easier to see, hear, and use a computer.

We’re also working with partners to grow 
the local software economy in thousands 
of communities across more than 100 
countries worldwide, and to develop a 
workforce of highly skilled people who can 
support and benefit from those businesses.

The knowledge economy offers immense 
opportunity for people and businesses in all 
parts of the world to build better societies 
and better lives. As a global technology 
leader and responsible global citizen, 
Microsoft is committed to helping countries 
and communities advance their goals of 
human and technological development.

diGitAL incLusion
At Microsoft, our mission is to help people and 
businesses throughout the world realize their 
full potential. We know that if people have 
the right tools, they can accomplish almost 
anything. But tools alone won’t enable people 
to build a better life and reach their dreams. 
They also need the skills to use those tools.

It is that understanding, along with our 
experience and success in providing technology 
training to millions of people of varying 
circumstances and abilities, that has given us 
the confidence to make a bold commitment: 

to bring the benefits of technology — and 
technology skills — to one-quarter of a billion 
underserved people worldwide by 2010. 

Nations everywhere are striving to harness 
the opportunities and meet the challenges 
of the twenty-first-century knowledge 
economy. They are focused on promoting job 
growth and workforce training, encouraging 
the development of local industry, and 
enhancing their global competitiveness.

Governments around the world understand 
that addressing these issues today will provide 
a solid foundation for growth and prosperity 
tomorrow. And because computer operating 
systems and applications are the engines 
that drive the knowledge economy, many of 
these governments’ economic development 
strategies center on increasing digital literacy 
and technology usage among all their citizens.

Microsoft is working in partnership with 
governments and leading companies in the 
United States and around the world to develop 
innovative solutions to the workforce problems 
we all share. We know that creating economic 
opportunities for nations, communities, and 
businesses worldwide begins by opening 
doors of opportunity for individuals.

employability and workforce development

The readiness of 
American workers 
to compete in the 
global economy is 
a growing concern 
for Microsoft and 

many other companies. The United States 
is falling behind many other nations in 
various measures of workforce readiness:

§  Only 13 percent of U.S. adults are proficient 
in the knowledge and skills needed to search 
for, comprehend, and use information — a 
decrease of 2 percentage points since 1992.1

§  Despite efforts to improve math and 
science skills, only 13 percent of U.S. 
adults are proficient in the knowledge 
and skills needed to identify and perform 
computational tasks — the same percentage 
of adults who were proficient in 1992.2

§  Only 5 percent of U.S. college undergraduates 

today are pursuing degrees in science or 
engineering, compared with 42 percent 
of university students in China.3

Meanwhile, the nature of work in the United 
States is changing rapidly. As we move from a 
manufacturing-based economy to an information-
based economy, employers are demanding more 
skills that revolve around knowledge creation, 
collaboration, communication, and analysis.

Information workers now account for 72 
percent of the U.S. labor force, and over the 
next decade, 6 out of every 10 new jobs will be 
in professional and service-related occupations. 
Even jobs as diverse as delivery driver, retail 
clerk, and manufacturing supervisor require at 
least a basic level of proficiency in computers.4

1 National Center for Education Statistics, 2003 National 
Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL), A First Look at the 
Literacy of America’s Adults in the 21st Century (2005).

2 Ibid.

3 Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public 

Policy, Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing 
and Employing America for a Brighter Economic 
Future (National Academies Press, 2006).

4 Norman C. Saunders, “Employment Outlook 

2004–2014: A Summary of BLS Projections,” Monthly 
Labor Review Online (November 2005), p. 6.

knowledge economy       1

Technology Offers New Hope to Amputees
On New Year’s Day 2005, Jonathan Kuniholm, 
a U.S. Marine officer, was wounded in Iraq 
and lost his right arm below the elbow.

Before his Marine reserve unit was called up, Kuniholm 
was a partner in a startup product design firm and 
working toward a PhD in biomedical engineering at Duke 
University. He was also a private pilot. On the day he 
was wounded, he wondered if his flying days were over.

Today, with the help of prosthetic devices and assistive 
computer technology, Kuniholm is back at work and 
in school, and he has regained his pilot’s privileges.

“Technology is playing an enormous role in 
helping to mitigate the effects of my injury — from 
prostheses that help to simulate the functions of my 
lost hand and arm to Windows-enabled assistive 
computer technology that has made it possible 
for me to resume my career,” Kuniholm said.

He has shifted the focus of his engineering work 
to creating innovative designs for prosthetic 
devices that can be shared with amputees and 
designers in impoverished or war-torn areas such 
as Bosnia, Iraq, and Sierra Leone — places where 
there are severe problems but few solutions.

“There are an estimated 650,000 upper-extremity 
amputees worldwide, most with no access to 
prosthetic devices,” he said. “I want to help 
developing regions better serve their amputee 
populations by providing designs for devices they 
can build with materials they have on hand.”

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

Microsoft has been working to foster workforce 
development through IT skills training and other 
programs for the past 10 years. For example, 
Microsoft Learning is a group at Microsoft that 
focuses on developing and delivering IT skills 
training and certification solutions. Working 
with hundreds of commercial training partners 
in the United States, more than 7 million 
American workers have received IT skills 
training on Microsoft technologies in classrooms, 
at corporate offices, and over the Web.

And our workforce development efforts don’t 
stop at the U.S. border. Microsoft is a founding 
member of the European Alliance on Skills 
for Employability, a public-private initiative to 
provide 20 million Europeans with access to 
technology, content, certification, and training 
in computer technology and other skills by 2010, 
enabling the creation of new and better jobs in 
the European Union. The Employability Alliance 
was founded in January 2006 and launched at the 
Microsoft Government Leaders Forum in Europe 
with the endorsement of 
European Commission 
President José Manuel 
Barroso, a keynote 
speaker at the forum.

“I welcome the creation of the European Alliance 
on Skills for Employability. The alliance is a 
leading example of how innovative business-to-
business collaborations, working with different 
stakeholders, can provide opportunities to the 
European unemployed. Access to skills training, 
content provision, and certification can help 
older workers, people with disabilities, and the 
young to face the challenges of unemployment 
and the changing workplace, and so contribute to 
Europe’s prosperity. I commend this initiative as it 
represents one of the best practices in this field.”

— vLAdimiR spidLA, eu commissioneR 

foR empLoyment, sociAL AffAiRs, 

And equAL oppoRtunities

There are 18 million people unemployed across 
Europe,5 many of them from disadvantaged 
groups that often have little access to good 
jobs. The training offered by Microsoft 
and its partners is designed to reach many 
of those people, including immigrants, 
young people with low levels of education, 
seniors, and people with disabilities.

5 Eurostat, Unemployment rate total (accessed August 2006).

unlimited potential and partners in Learning

In 2003, we launched 
Partners in Learning 
and Unlimited Potential 

(UP), our two global flagship programs for 
education and digital inclusion. The early 
success of these two programs inspired us to 
set our ambitious goal of bringing the benefits 
of technology to one-quarter of a billion 
underserved people around the world by 2010.

Today, Partners in Learning and Unlimited 
Potential programs are under way in more 
than 100 countries around the world. Through 
innovative partnerships with governments and 
NGOs, we have trained more than 20 million 
people through UP, and 24 million teachers and 
students through Partners in Learning, reaching 
a total of 135 million people around the world.

Partners in Learning provides students, 
educators, and local governments worldwide 
with the resources they need to make technology 
an integral part of classroom learning and 
instruction. Partners in Learning programs 
provide the IT skills training, software, 
curriculum, and professional development 
resources that educators need to inspire and 
facilitate new ways of teaching and learning.

Unlimited Potential is designed to provide 
underserved populations with IT education 
and skills training through community-based 
technology learning centers around the world. 
In the three years since the UP program began, 
Microsoft has provided cash grants, software 
donations, and technical support and training 
to some 17,500 community technology centers 
in more than 100 countries, many of them 
specifically targeted at workforce development.

Partners in Learning 
and Unlimited Potential 
are key components of 
Microsoft’s worldwide 
employability and 

workforce development 

efforts. Both provide technology skills 
training that empower people to transform 
PCs into tools that can help them learn, build 
better livelihoods, and improve their lives.

ireland — helping the Long-term unemployed
Through the Unlimited Potential program, 
Microsoft provides critical resources for a 
number of employability and workforce 
development efforts in Ireland.

Fastrack to IT (FIT) is a workforce development 
program that provides technology and job skills 

training to Ireland’s long-term unemployed. 
Starting as a one-time course for 25 people in 
1998, FIT has since grown into an international 
role model for how to design and manage a 
community-based employability program.

FIT began in Ballymun as a Microsoft initiative 
called Tramlines, but later became an 
independent organization with board members 
drawn from many of the leading businesses and 
government agencies in Ireland. Today, FIT offers 
19 full-time courses and has spread to other 
cities in Ireland, including Dublin and Belfast.

Of the 5,000 people FIT has trained, 3,000 
are employed in jobs directly related to their 
training, and another 600 are engaged in 
further education or training. Many graduates 
are now teaching the subjects they learned 
through FIT, thereby increasing the effective 
reach of the program. And 47 percent of FIT 
graduates are women, an unusually high 
number for technology training programs.

Another UP-supported employability 
program in Ireland is the Dublin Inner City 
Partnership (DICP). Working with DICP, 
Microsoft is helping to equip computer 
rooms in four Dublin inner-city community 
centers to increase IT access and training for 
communities in their own neighborhoods.

knowledge economy       3

Australia’s School of the Air Goes High-Tech
The Katherine School of the Air was established 
in 1966 to educate children at isolated 
homesteads, remote schools, and indigenous 
communities in the Australian outback.

For four decades, the Katherine School used a 
combination of radio broadcasts and correspondence 
materials to provide distance learning to students 
scattered across 800,000 sq. km. In March 2006, 
Microsoft and the Northern Territory Government 
unveiled the Interactive Distance Learning (IDL) 
service to improve distance education in Australia.

Today, the program could be renamed the school of 
the future. Satellite feeds and laptop computers have 
replaced radio headsets and pencils. Teachers and 
students see and speak to each other in real time, 
and use a Web-based white board to collaborate 
on lessons. Students receive learning materials 
electronically instead of by mail, and they build strong 
social networks through interactive communication.

IDL is based on Conference XP, a special technology 
developed by Microsoft Research Asia and adapted 
for local conditions by M&S Consultants, an 
Australian company from the Northern Territory.

After its debut at the Katherine School, the IDL 
service was implemented at the Alice Springs 
School of the Air and the Northern Territory Open 
Education Centre. Eventually, the IDL service will be 
available to approximately 110 remote homesteads, 
90 remote schools, four remote training centers, 
and a number of urban and regional schools.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

Microsoft donated 110 refurbished PCs to 
equip the four DICP centers, along with a 
full range of software for the PCs, Unlimited 
Potential curriculum to support training 
efforts, and access to employee volunteers 
who wish to donate their time to work with 
the centers. Microsoft also committed a total 
cash investment of nearly €100,000 to cover 
equipment installation, technical support, IT 
skills training, and the purchase of peripheral 
hardware such as printers and scanners.

China — Extending Economic Benefits  

to migrant workers
One of the greatest 
economic migrations 
in history is happening 
in China. Although 60 
percent of the Chinese 
population lives in rural agricultural areas, 
the country’s rapid economic growth has left 
those areas largely untouched, according to a 
report by Progress Strategy, a market research 
and consulting firm. The average annual 
income of people living and working in China’s 
cities is more than three times that of those in 
rural areas. As a result, more than 10 million 
people each year leave the country to seek 
better economic opportunities in the cities.

Because many of the migrating Chinese are 
uneducated and lack basic skills, they end up in 
low-paying urban jobs. According to the Progress 
Strategy report, if the migrant workers remain 
disenfranchised they could end up undermining 
“the sustainable and stable development of the 
national economy.” To help prevent this outcome, 
the Chinese government is aiming to provide 30 
million migrant workers with vocational training 
by 2010 — and Microsoft is committed to helping 
China achieve that goal.

The Xicheng CTC, located in the Xicheng District 
Library in Beijing, opened in June 2004 with 
40 workstations. Through Unlimited Potential, 
Microsoft provided the computers, software, and 
additional funding. The Xicheng CTC was the 
first CTC in China, and the program has since 
been expanded to include four new rural CTCs 
and five new urban CTCs.

Africa — offering hope to disadvantaged 

women and youth in 43 countries
Through Unlimited Potential, Microsoft 
has collaborated with NGOs and IGOs, as 
well as local partners, to provide resources 
to more than 1,000 CTCs in 43 African 
countries. Microsoft has invested more than 
$7.5 million in cash and software to help 
train and empower thousands of Africans.

More than half of these projects are designed to 
help young people, who represent a majority of 
the population in Africa. Another third are aimed 
at training women, and the rest are focused on 
training refugees, children, and underserved 
communities. To further serve disadvantaged 
youth, women, and refugees in African 
communities, Microsoft 
is localizing the UP 
training curricula for the 
Arabic and Portuguese 
languages as well as 
English and French.

At the Microsoft Government Leaders Forum 
Africa 2006, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates 
announced that Microsoft is collaborating 
with global and local organizations — such 
as the United Nations World Tourism 
Organization (UNWTO), the United Nations 
Industrial Development Organization 
(UNIDO), and the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) — to help African 
governments create sustainable economic 
growth by providing ICT training to more 
than 45 million people in Africa by 2010.

india — making technology part of Learning
India is a perfect example of the need for digital 
inclusion. Although there are thriving technology 
sectors throughout the country, state-funded 
schools in poorer areas have no computers and 
most teachers have little or no ICT training.

Project Shiksha, launched by Microsoft 
Chairman Bill Gates in 2002, is a Partners in 
Learning–sponsored IT Academy program 
designed to provide computer literacy 
for more than 80,000 teachers and 3.5 
million students throughout India over 
a five-year period. Microsoft has made a 
$20 million investment in the project.

Teachers travel to 
Hyderabad for an 
intensive 12-day course 
in basic IT skills that 
includes instruction 
on how to use the 

Internet, e-mail, and popular software products 
such as Windows XP and Microsoft Word, 
PowerPoint®, Paint, and Excel®. The teachers 
also learn how to integrate technology into 
their lesson plans and classroom instruction.

Teachers who have taken the course say that 
both they and their students benefited from 
the program. The teachers gained more 
confidence and left the Microsoft IT Academy 
eager to share their new skills. Energized by the 
training, teachers are motivated, which, in turn, 
motivates students and improves attendance.

Central America — Certification 

for competitiveness
Working with Microsoft Partners in Learning, 
many countries in the Caribbean and Central 
America (CCA) region are starting Peer Coaching 
Programs, which will become a fundamental part 
of professional development plans for public-
school teachers. Peer Coaching allows public 
schools to have at least two teachers working as 
“coaches” for the rest of the teachers in that school. 
The program includes 10 sessions in 12 months, 
and during that time all coaches are expected 
to guide other teachers to discover how they 
can help students achieve academic success by 
making technology part of the learning process.

knowledge economy       

telecentre.org
Many people around the world lack easy access to 
potentially life-changing information. Telecentres — public 
spaces equipped with computers, the Internet, and other 
technologies — equip users with the resources needed to 
tackle a wide array of social issues, from computer-based 
job training and health education to democracy building.

To help strengthen the effectiveness of telecentres 
worldwide, Microsoft, the International Development 
Research Center, and the Swiss Agency for Development 
and Cooperation developed telecentre.org, an initiative 
designed to strengthen the capacity of community-
based telecentres to better serve their local needs. At 
its core, telecentre.org is built around collaboration 
and partnership — connecting telecentres, networks, 
innovators, and social investors.

The focus of the telecentre.org program is to provide 
social investments and services at the national and 
regional level to grassroots telecentre networks. These 
networks give telecentre managers the training, 
business planning, marketing, and technology 
they need to succeed. Through online information-
sharing services, they also help local telecentre users 
learn and innovate together, making technology 
more useful for the communities they serve.

In November 2005, the first round of social investments 
was launched, offering financial support for telecentre 
networks in India, Sri Lanka, Uganda, Mozambique, 
South Africa, Chile, and other areas across the Americas.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

To become more 
competitive, several 
CCA countries have 
started extensive 
certification programs. 
Partners in Learning, 

in cooperation with local partners, makes it 
easy for CCA countries to certify teachers and 
students. Using Partners in Learning resources, 
in 2006 Costa Rica plans to certify 10,000 
people, El Salvador 22,500, and Panama and 
the Dominican Republic more than 5,000.

In El Salvador, the first country in Central 
America to implement the Free Trade 
Agreement with the United States, the Ministry 
of Education plans to make the Partners 
in Learning curriculum an official part of 
secondary education, and to make certification 
a requirement for high school graduation — a 
move that will lead to more than 60,000 
students being certified each year starting in 
2007. In January 2006, 27 teachers in Panama 
completed Master Teachers Office XP training 
and were certified, and they will now share their 
skills and knowledge with other teachers. This 
first class of 27 was the start of an ambitious 
project to certify 750 public-school teachers 
as Microsoft Office Specialists or Masters.

Asia-Pacific — Technology Training 

to Stop Human Trafficking
Throughout the Asia-Pacific region, low-income 
villagers frequently migrate from rural to 
urban areas in search of greater economic 
opportunities and a better life. Once away from 
their home communities, however, their lack 
of skills and job prospects often puts them at 
risk of falling victim to human trafficking.

In June 2006, Microsoft 
announced six 
Unlimited Potential 
(UP) grants, together 
valued at more 
than $1 million, to 
help combat human trafficking in the region. 
With the grants, NGOs in Cambodia, India, 
Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore, and 
Thailand will deliver IT skills training to enhance 
the employment prospects and economic 
conditions of people most vulnerable to human 
traffickers, and those who have already been 
victimized. Through outreach efforts and 
subgrants, the network will provide resources 
to more than 40 NGOs, including several in 
Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, and Vietnam.

“Microsoft is the first company to approach us with 
a vision of empowering OFWs (Overseas Filipino 
Workers) through technology, and we are very 
happy that we are able to sustain this partnership.”

— mR. mARiAnito d. Roque, AdministRAtoR, 

oveRseAs woRkeRs weLfARe 

AdministRAtion, phiLippine depARtment 

of LABoR And empLoyment

Microsoft will support more than 130 new 
community technology centers to provide the 
benefits of technology to those most at risk. 
In addition to financial support, Microsoft is 
providing software 
and the Unlimited 
Potential curriculum, 
which is available 
in 10 languages that 
are used in Asia.

knowledge economy       

Opening Doors in Latvia
On February 6, 2006, the Open Door center was 
founded in Riga, Latvia, to provide ICT training for 
people with disabilities and others in the community 
to help broaden their employment, educational, and 
communication opportunities. Four months later, 
on June 6, the Open Door Center graduated its first 
class of students, who became instructors in the 
program to help train others in the community.

A joint project of Microsoft Latvia and APEIRONS, a 
Latvian organization for people with disabilities, 
Open Door is supported by a Microsoft Unlimited 
Potential grant, along with donations of Microsoft 
software and curriculum materials. The center 
has a computer classroom with workstations for 
IT instruction, and it also offers computer and 
Internet access to people in the community.

AccessiBiLity
Microsoft has been a leader in accessible 
technology design and development since 
1988. We develop software and tools that 
make it easier for people to see, hear, and 
use their personal computers, and we 
never stop working to make Windows an 
outstanding platform that other companies 
can use to develop accessible technologies.

Originally, accessible technology was viewed 
exclusively as a tool to assist people with 
disabilities, and that is still one of its most 
important functions. Today, however, the 
demand for accessible technology is expanding, 
as more people with mild or moderate 
impairments realize all of the ways accessible 
technology can help them adjust their computers 
to make them easier and more comfortable to use. 

Although the benefits of accessible technology 
are not limited to people who experience 
physical or cognitive difficulties, addressing 
the needs of people with a wide range of 
abilities gives us deeper insights into the 
challenges all consumers face as they interact 
with technology. As a result, Microsoft is able 
to create software that is more functional for 
everyone while continuing to address the 
unique needs of people with disabilities.

Before technology can empower people with 
disabilities, or anyone else, they have to know 
how to use it. Microsoft has created innovative 
partnerships and programs throughout the 
world to provide the training and technology 
that people with disabilities need to transform 
their lives and realize their potential.

innovative Accessibility in windows vista
Windows Vista, the newest version of the 
Microsoft Windows operating system, includes 
several new accessibility innovations.

A new Ease of Access center helps 
computer users identify, locate, and 
turn on the built-in accessibility 

settings and programs in Windows Vista. 
Also, by answering a few simple questions 
about their experience performing routine 
tasks, such as difficulty seeing faces on a 
TV or hearing conversation in a crowded 
room, users can receive a personalized 
recommendation for accessibility settings that 
may improve their computing experience.

Windows Vista also includes new technologies, 
such as state-of-the-art Speech Recognition 
and Magnification, which can assist 
users with a wide range of abilities. 

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

With Windows Speech Recognition, users can 

dictate documents and 
e-mail messages, fill 
out forms on the Web using voice commands, 
and manage their PC and applications by 
saying what they see. Speech Recognition is 
designed to improve as people use it, adapting 
to their speaking style and vocabulary.

Magnifier makes a portion of the screen from 
2 to 16 times larger to improve the readability 
of text for people with low vision. Instead of 
stretching an image to enlarge it, which often 
creates jagged edges and other distortions, 
Windows Vista enables users to enlarge buttons, 
icons, and other graphics to the size they find 
easiest to see with no loss of image quality.

A new accessibility and automated testing 
model in Windows Vista, called Microsoft 
UI Automation (“UI” refers to user interface), 
reduces development costs not only for accessible 
and assistive technology (AT) developers, but 
also for application developers who make their 
software compatible with AT products such 
as screen readers for people who are blind. 
Microsoft UI Automation also improves product 
quality by providing increased testing support 
and a new way of doing automated UI testing 

for software developers. Microsoft Accessibility 
Resource Centers throughout the United States 
are available to help people with disabilities find 
the accessibility settings and assistive technology 
products that are right for them. These low- or 
no-cost centers offer consultation and training.

ecdL Barrier-free Access project
The European Computer Driving Licence (ECDL) 
is an internationally recognized computer skills 
certification program with about 2.5 million 
participants in more than 90 countries. Because 
of a lack of dedicated resources, however, people 

with disabilities had 
difficulty attaining the 
certificate and were  
facing significant 
disadvantages in 
the job market.

To address this problem, Microsoft Austria and 
the Integrated Study Institute of the University 
of Linz worked with representatives from the 
public and private sectors to establish a new 
pan-European initiative called the European 
Computer Driving Licence for People with 
Disabilities (ECDL-PD), better known as 
the ECDL Barrier-free Access project.

ECDL Barrier-free Access is tailored to meet 
the unique challenges faced by people with 
visual, hearing, mobility, and cognitive 
disabilities. It allows them to work with 
assistive technologies — Braille displays 
or keyboard and mouse alternatives such 
as on-screen keyboards or hands-free mice 
for people who are paralyzed — although 
the standards of certification are the same 
as for everyone else. The possible benefits 
of ECDL Barrier-free Access include:

§  Improved employment prospects for people 

with disabilities who earn the ECDL certificate.

§  Reduced unemployment among 
people with disabilities, and less 
dependency on state benefits.

§  Employer access to a larger 
pool of skilled workers.

§  Local economic benefits derived 

from greater productivity.

helping people with disabilities 

in Latin America
Partnership in Opportunities for Employment 
through Technology in the Americas (POETA) 
is the latest program to emerge from the 
partnership between Microsoft and the 
Organization of American States, which 
began in 2001. POETA provides technology 
job training and job placement assistance at 
centers located throughout Latin America to 
young people and adults with disabilities.

At some centers, the program also serves 
other vulnerable populations, such as at-risk 
youth, women, and people from indigenous 
cultures. POETA is 
working with more 
than 10,000 people 
with disabilities and 
others in 29 centers 
that span 11 countries: 

Argentina, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, 
Mexico, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.

Job training in kazakhstan
The Namys Foundation is an organization in 
Kazakhstan for people with disabilities and 
those who support them in their everyday lives. 
Working together, the Namys Foundation and 
Microsoft Kazakhstan used Unlimited Potential 
cash, software, and curriculum to open a CTC to 
provide ICT training to people with disabilities 
and others in the community. During the first 
year, more than 130 people received computer 
skills training at the center. According to the 
foundation, nearly 70 percent of those trained 
had disabilities, and 43 percent of the trainees 
with disabilities used their new skills to find jobs 
immediately after completing their training.

“All the telecentre.org partners have extensive 
experience of working in developing countries, 
but we know that we can achieve much more by 
collaborating and sharing information than by 
working independently. Microsoft’s expertise in 
providing training materials and in introducing 
technology outside traditional office environments 
will play a particularly important part.”

— mARk suRmAn, mAnAGinG diRectoR, 

inteRnAtionAL deveLopment 

ReseARch centRe (idRc)

knowledge economy       9

Partnership for Technology Access
The Microsoft Partnership for Technology Access (PTA) 
program is an innovative initiative that draws on the 
expertise of governments, technology organizations, 
and financial institutions to make PCs more affordable.

Despite a high level of literacy and education, there 
is widespread poverty in Egypt. A majority of 
Egypt’s 77 million people are considered “working 
poor,” with average monthly incomes of about 
$100. Few have any credit history, which puts 
purchasing a home PC beyond their means.

The PC in Every Home initiative, a PTA program, has 
enabled Egyptians with no credit history to purchase 
PCs with low monthly payments. More than 250,000 
PCs have been sold, and more than 1 million Egyptians 
have gained digital skills and the chance for a better life.

Similar PTA programs have been established in 
the Philippines and Nigeria. Konek ka diyan! is a 
PC-purchase program that gives 9 million overseas 
Filipino workers and their families the chance to own 
computers. The Computers for All Nigerians Initiative 
offers low-interest PC loans to government employees 
who use their paychecks as collateral. Over the 
next two years, the program will expand to include 
students, microenterprise owners, and pensioners.

According to The Economist, five of every six people on 
the planet have no access to institutional credit. With its 
private- and public-sector partners worldwide, Microsoft 
is working to eliminate that barrier to digital inclusion.

30       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

LocAL softwARe economy
Innovation and collaboration have always been 
hallmarks of Microsoft and the commercial 
software industry as a whole, a trillion-dollar 
market that helps to create and sustain 
local software economies worldwide.

Microsoft’s success depends on its extensive 
partnerships with nearly 700,000 businesses 
worldwide—including independent software 
vendors, system integrators, resellers, and 
hardware manufacturers. Local software 
economies and the Microsoft partner 
network create jobs, generate tax revenue 
for governments, offer skills and workforce 
development programs, and make significant 
investments in innovative new technologies.

Building opportunities for economic 
development through local software economies is 
an important driver of growth in many countries. 
Evidence increasingly shows that countries 
with the best economic growth rates have 
invested in developing local IT industries and 
deploying IT across all sectors of the economy 
to foster social and economic development.

A 2005 global study by IDC, a market research 
firm, shows that IT continues to be a major 
driver of local and regional economic activity, 

including job creation, company formation, 
local IT spending, and tax revenues. For 
example, the IT industries in Australia, India, 
Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, the 
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam 
will generate an aggregate of more than 1 
million new jobs between 2004 and 2009, and 
account for the creation of more than 19,000 
new IT companies. Over the same period, the 
IT industry will drive $11.3 billion in new 
tax revenues and contribute almost $350 
billion to regional gross domestic product.

Software is a significant contributor to 
this growth. Currently, 38 percent of all IT 
employees in these 10 countries are engaged in 
creating, distributing, or servicing software. As 
further evidence that Microsoft helps to drive 
the success of the larger IT ecosystem, IDC 
estimates that for every dollar of Microsoft 
revenue in these countries, an average of 
$12.29 is generated by other companies selling 
hardware or software that runs on Microsoft 
operating systems or in servicing that software.

In countries and communities around the world, 
Microsoft is forging innovative partnerships 
with governments, NGOs, and local businesses 
to create new economic opportunities.

france — initiative for the economic 

development of isvs and startups
In October 2005, Microsoft launched the 
Initiative for the Economic Development of ISVs 
and Startups (the French acronym is IDEES) to 
enable promising young companies in France 
to emerge and grow more quickly. Microsoft 
spent four months identifying and recruiting 25 
companies to participate in IDEES, looking for 
businesses that offered innovative products with 
talented R&D and management teams that could 
bring value to Microsoft customers and partners.

To assist the IDEES startups and independent 
software vendors (ISVs), Microsoft provides 
funding for technical consulting and 
marketing, introductions to leading venture 
capitalists, and direct links to product groups 
and other resources within Microsoft.

A good example of the effectiveness of IDEES 
is Miyowa, a mobile instant messaging and 
infotainment platform provider that had 15 
employees and no venture capital funding when 
Microsoft invited it to join IDEES. Microsoft 
provided Miyowa with €15,000 for technical 
consulting, introduced the company to MSN 
executives and IDEES venture capitalists, and 
presented the young firm to i-mode operators in 

Holland and Japan. (Developed in Japan, i-mode 
is a wireless Internet service that is becoming 
increasingly popular in other parts of the world.)

Miyowa won a competitive contract to operate 
MSN Messenger services on Bouyges i-mode 
mobile devices. In 2006, Miyowa will generate 
at least €2 million in revenue thanks to the 
MSN deal, and the company closed a similar 
deal in Holland with another company. On 
the strength of those contracts, Miyowa was 
able to secure €7 million in venture capital 
and expects to recruit more than 20 new 
people. The company also plans to expand 
operations into the United States in 2006.

india — quality Assurance initiative
India has become a global leader in information 
technology services and support, but the nation’s 
commercial software industry — which has the 
potential to reach $50 billion in revenue by the 
end of 2008 — has not yet achieved the same level 
of success. The greatest barrier to growth is the 
lack of efficient software development processes, 
which are necessary to ensure consistent 
product quality and customer satisfaction.

To help the Indian software industry reach 
its potential, Microsoft has partnered with 
India’s National Association of Software and 

Services Companies (NASSCOM) — the Indian 
software industry’s chamber of commerce—to 
train and certify ISVs. The program uses the 
Microsoft Solutions Framework, a set of proven 
software development principles, processes, and 
best practices. This disciplined yet adaptable 
development approach provides companies 
with the information and tools they need 
to deliver high-quality software solutions 
faster, and with fewer people and less risk.

The ISV Quality Certification program guides 
software developers and IT managers through 
the entire life cycle of a software-engineering 
project. It consists of four stages: training, 
consultation, assessment, and certification. 
The Quality Assurance Institute India Ltd. 
(QAI), the largest software-process consulting 
organization in the Asia-Pacific region, provides 
independent certification to validate that proven 
and accepted methodologies have been used 
throughout the software design and development 
process. The goal is to assure customers that they 
are getting high-quality, reliable, and scalable 
products. The entire process takes three to 
six months. Twenty-four ISVs have completed 
the training, and 10 companies are on track to 
achieve QAI certification by the end of 2006.

knowledge economy       31

NGO Days in Asia
In 2006, Microsoft conducted NGO Days in 
Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, and Thailand 
to help nongovernmental organizations increase 
their technology capacity. An innovative hands-
on approach, NGO Days offer Microsoft staff 
the chance to gain a deeper understanding of 
the NGOs in their country and provide NGOs an 
opportunity to learn more about Microsoft and its 
community investments, technology, and people.

Microsoft makes frequent software donations that 
benefit NGOs; the company also provides technology 
training and other resources through its Unlimited 
Potential program. In Asia, Microsoft employees 
volunteer their time and expertise to help organizations 
build capacity and improve performance.

NGO Days are tailored to the specific needs of the NGOs 
in each country where events are held. The needs are 
assessed in advance through surveys or input from 
cosponsoring organizations that work directly with the 
NGOs. Some NGO Days focus on NGOs that work in 
a particular sector, such as agriculture in Indonesia.

Feedback from NGOs attending these events has 
been so positive that Microsoft intends to expand 
the program. We are also pursuing follow-up 
activities: some offices are working more closely with 
select NGOs, and others are developing technology 
applications specifically for the NGOs in their country.

3       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

Argentina — meeting the Growing 

demand for it workers
In Argentina, a vibrant economy is creating huge 
demand for trained IT workers. Recent research 
from IDC indicates that IT spending is projected 
to increase at an annual rate of more than 20 
percent through 2008 — nearly triple the pace 
for Latin America as a whole. The increase is 
driven not only by local companies that need 
skilled IT professionals, but also by businesses 
outside the country that are considering 
investing in new opportunities in Argentina.

To address the growing need for skilled IT 
workers in Argentina, Microsoft joined forces 
with the Chamber of Enterprise Software and 
IT Services (CESSI), 12 universities, and nearly 
two dozen software companies and technology 
incubation centers to create +MAS, a training 
and certification program that provides 
college students and recent graduates with the 
skills needed by local software companies.

+MAS is also designed to help newly trained 
graduates connect with prospective employers. 
In Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and 
Uruguay more than 2,200 students have received 
scholarships for training and certification in 
Microsoft .NET technologies, and more than 
250 were hired into new jobs by local software 
companies. Building on this success, Microsoft 

and Argentina’s Ministry of Labor agreed to 
cosponsor 1,000 additional scholarships in 2006 
and, in partnership with CESSI and local IT 
companies, to create and fill 600 more new jobs.

By June 2006, the Microsoft Founder Initiative 
was supporting 18 initiatives at both the federal 
and regional levels and had mentorships 
for 12 startup companies. The goal is to 
have 20 mentorships in fiscal year 2007.

Germany — microsoft founder initiative
Creating jobs and developing a thriving high-
tech industry are top economic priorities for 
the German government, yet the number of 
new high-tech companies in Germany has 
been decreasing steadily since 1995, according 
to a German economic research institute.

One goal of the Microsoft Founder Initiative is 
to support the business development of high-
tech founders and startup companies, enabling 
them to achieve above-average growth and 
create good jobs in Germany. Another goal is 
to showcase these companies as examples of 
how technology innovations can become the 
basis for successful businesses and to encourage 
the founding of more high-tech companies.

The Microsoft Founder Initiative operates as 
a public-private partnership. Basic support 
for the startup companies is provided on a 
regional basis. Microsoft works closely with 
regional governments, and many of the startup 
companies receive some funding from public 
subsidy banks along with matching funds from 
venture capitalists or other private investors.

“In Bavaria we have been successful in the past years 
with our focus on innovation — and we also owe 
this to the support of companies such as Microsoft.”

— edmund stoiBeR, BAvARiAn stAte pRime ministeR

Brazil — microsoft innovation centers
To help fuel innovation and the development of 
strong, self-sustaining local software industries 
in communities worldwide, Microsoft is 
partnering with local governments, academic 
institutions, industry organizations, and 
software and hardware vendors to expand its 
network of Microsoft Innovation Centers (MICs). 
Today, these centers serve 100 communities 
worldwide. By the end of 2006, there will be 
MICs in 125 communities in 50 nations.

Microsoft and its partners in each community 
work together to operate the MICs, which 
are open to students, professional software 
developers, IT professionals, entrepreneurs, 
and academic researchers. Each MIC 

tailors its programs to local needs, but they 
all provide similar content and services 
designed to accelerate technology advances 
and stimulate local software economies 
through skills and professional training, 
industry partnerships, and innovation.

In Brazil, more than 14,000 students, university 
professors, and local software entrepreneurs 
have used the country’s 20 Microsoft Innovation 
Centers to collaborate on new technologies, 
test software prototypes, participate in 
seminars on emerging technologies, receive 
advanced training, and prepare for jobs in 
Brazil’s fast-growing high-tech sector. Since 
the Brazilian centers opened in 2002, more 
than 200 software projects and solutions 
have been developed around the XML open 
standard and other innovative technologies, 
in collaboration with 72 universities and 
numerous local governments and businesses.

saksham — Rural computing in india
Information and communications technology 
has spurred rapid socioeconomic development 
in developed countries and in urban areas in 
developing countries, but many rural areas6 in 
developing countries have been left behind.

In India, more than 70 percent of the population 
lives in rural areas with either limited access 
to technology, or no access at all, which, in 
turn, limits access to government services 
and participation in the knowledge economy. 
Project Saksham is an initiative launched by 
Microsoft in partnership with governments in 
India to help energize the nation’s rural economy 
by creating a sustainable IT infrastructure 
and an environment for economic growth.

For Project Saksham, 
Microsoft is partnering 
with government 
agencies and NGOs 
and taking advantage 
of resources, funding, 

and grants from rural development programs 
to provide microfinancing and to encourage 
kiosk-based microenterprises throughout rural 
India. Over the next three years, Project Saksham 
will establish 50,000 such businesses in India, 
which will be operated by village entrepreneurs.

6  2001 Census of India, Office of the Registrar General, 

http://censusindia.net (accessed August 2006).

knowledge economy       33

Microsoft Research: Empowering Academic 
Researchers to Change the World
Besides working to solve complex computer science 
problems and developing innovative technologies, 
Microsoft Research (MSR) also finds ways to 
inspire and engage the academic community.

As part of the company’s efforts to increase digital 
inclusion by expanding global access to technology 
and skills training, MSR created a $1.2 million 
funding opportunity for academic researchers. In 
October 2005, MSR issued a request for proposal 
(RFP) to encourage academic research that explores 
how technologies can help people around the 
world reach their potential by making computing 
more accessible, affordable, and relevant to their 
cultures, communities, and everyday lives.

Four months later, Microsoft named the 17 digital 
inclusion RFP winners from teaching universities in 
Argentina, Botswana, Canada, Chile, China, India, the 
Netherlands, Pakistan, the United States, and Uruguay.

Some of the research projects proposed by the 
RFP winners included delivering integrated Internet-
based healthcare information and services for 
HIV/AIDS patients in Botswana; exploring whether 
WiFi-enabled phones and online chat services can 
boost cognitive development in Chilean children; 
and building a prototype of an early warning 
system for flood control in Honduras. Many of the 
winning research universities are partnering with 
NGOs to develop proof-of-concept applications.

3       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

korea — software ecosystem project
In May 2006, Microsoft expanded its partnership 
with the Korean government by signing a 
Memorandum of Understanding with the 
Korea IT Industry Promotion Agency (KIPA) to 
implement the Software Ecosystem Project and 
accelerate the growth of the Korean IT industry. 

Under the agreement, Microsoft will invest an 
additional $30 million in the Korean IT industry, 
bringing its total investment to $60 million 
over the next three years. The money will be 
used in part to build two new labs — the ISV 
Empowerment Lab and the Web Engineering 
Lab — that will help local companies strengthen 
their ability to compete in the global marketplace 
through ongoing innovation. The two new labs 
will join the existing Microsoft Mobile Innovation 
Lab in the expanded Microsoft Innovation Center.

The goal of the ISV Empowerment Lab is 
to nurture 60 Korean ISVs, helping them 
create new products and technologies. In 
addition, Microsoft will help key ISVs gain 
access to the global market through export 
opportunities. The Web Engineering Lab is 
designed to foster collaboration between local 
companies in Web services and digital 

content. The two labs will also support the 
training of 1,000 skilled software architects.

“Together with the Korean government’s 
initiatives to build a stronger software industry, 
we expect Microsoft’s contribution and 
commitments will help nurture a more globally 
competitive software industry for Korea.” 

— hyun Jin ko, pResident of kipA

heLpinG nGos BuiLd cApAcity 
And impRove peRfoRmAnce

Nongovernmental 
organizations 
enrich millions of 
lives worldwide 
and make vital 
contributions to the 

quality of life in communities everywhere, 
offering essential services that form a safety 
net in the gap between government programs 
and the private sector. Yet despite the critical 
services they provide, many NGOs lack the 
skilled staff, up-to-date technology, and 
other resources that would allow them to 
operate more efficiently and cost-effectively.

Microsoft has a long history of working with 
NGOs to help them streamline their logistics and 
internal processes, improve their performance, 
and extend their services to more people. 
Through our involvement in innovative programs 
designed to bring the power of technology to 
NGOs worldwide, we seek to strengthen, support, 
and empower the entire NGO community.

ensuring technology Access to 

underserved communities
Technology upgrades and organizational changes 
at many companies routinely add to a worldwide 
surplus of usable PCs, yet only a small number 
of these used computers are redeployed to serve 
the educational and training needs of people who 
lack access to life-changing technology. Millions 
of potentially useful PCs are literally going to 
waste, and millions of opportunities to empower 
people through technology are being lost.

knowledge economy       3

The Microsoft 
Authorized Refurbisher 
(MAR) donation 
program, operating 
in scores of countries, 
facilitates community 
ICT access and learning by enabling more than 
530 authorized PC refurbishers worldwide to 
install donated Windows operating systems and 
Microsoft Works 7.0 on PCs destined for NGOs, 
community centers, and K – 14 schools (including 
community colleges and vocational schools).

Microsoft provides Windows operating 
systems — approximately 150,000 in fiscal 
year 2006 alone — to NGOs that refurbish 
thousands of surplus PCs every year. We 
provide software, certificates of authenticity, 
and end-user license agreements to the MAR 
program, and the authorized MARs distribute 
those donations to qualified recipients. By 
reducing the refurbishers’ costs, the MAR 
program makes refurbished technology more 
affordable and increases the availability of low-
cost usable PCs to communities most in need.

more information 

on MAR programs around the world is 

available at www.microsoft.com/mar.

helping nGos help themselves

In 2000, Microsoft 
helped to establish 
NPower, a network 
of independent, 
local nonprofit 
organizations 

that help NGOs use technology to operate 
more efficiently and serve their communities 
more effectively. We started with a five-year 
commitment of $25 million in cash and 
software; in 2003, we extended our support 
through 2007. Microsoft employees also support 
NPower as onsite volunteers and trainers, 
and serve as board members for NPower 
organizations throughout the United States.

“NPower provides a tremendous resource that 
enables NGOs to get the expert technology 
assistance they need when they need it,” said 
Kevin Johnson, Co-President, Platforms & 
Services Division at Microsoft, who serves on 
the national NPower board. “NGOs play a vital 
role in society, providing critical services that 
strengthen communities. Directly or indirectly, 
we all rely on the work of these essential 
organizations for the quality of life we enjoy.”

Microsoft is also a founding partner of TechSoup, 
which is operated by CompuMentor, one of the 

oldest and largest NGO technology assistance 
agencies in the United States. TechSoup.org 
is a Web site that offers NGOs a one-stop 
shop for their technology needs by providing 
free information, resources, and support. 
TechSoup gives NGOs access to donated 
and discounted technology products that 
are provided by TechSoup’s ICT industry 
partners. Currently, we are working with 
CompuMentor to replicate this model worldwide.

Microsoft software donation programs 
represent the primary method for engaging 
the broader NGO community, offering 
valued tools to small nonprofits in an open 
and accessible manner. In fiscal year 2006, 
Microsoft donated more than $307 million in 
software worldwide. Through our partnership 
with TechSoup, we are expanding our North 
American program to key markets worldwide.

TechSoup not only provides the administration 
required for our donations, but also supports 
the NGOs with online content and services 
to help them effectively implement our 
donations. In addition, TechSoup helps them 
receive donations of technology tools from 
other corporate donors (such as Cisco, Adobe, 
and Symantec) to complement our donations 
and provide a holistic technology solution.

3       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

technology solutions to improve disaster 

Response and humanitarian Relief
Microsoft works closely with a number of 
major NGOs on relief efforts in many parts 
of the world, either in direct response to 
natural disasters or as part of ongoing 
efforts to address the needs of refugees.

Microsoft and its employees made significant 
contributions to relief efforts in response to 
recent natural disasters, such as the Indian 
Ocean tsunami, Hurricane Katrina, and the 
earthquake in Pakistan. In 2006, to help 
improve humanitarian relief efforts worldwide, 
Microsoft donated $41 million in software and 
cash to NetHope and the Interagency Working 
Group on Emergency Capacity Building (ECB).

NetHope is a membership 
organization that 

includes the chief information officers and/or 
chief technology officers of 17 global NGOs 
engaged in international development. 
ECB comprises seven of the world’s most 
active relief agencies, including Catholic 
Relief Services, Mercy Corps, and Save the 
Children. The focus of both NetHope and 
ECB is to improve collaboration and capacity 
in disaster response, including improving 
the use of information and communications 
technology to assist in their work.

The grant is part of our ongoing effort to 
provide NGOs with tools that enable them 
to increase their capacity and fulfill their 
missions more effectively. By partnering 
with leading nonprofit organizations like 
NetHope and ECB, Microsoft is helping to 
create innovative technology solutions that 
strengthen NGOs and relief agencies worldwide.

Earlier, when civil war sent thousands of 
refugees fleeing Kosovo in 1999, many were 
stripped of their identity papers and became 
separated from family members. Hundreds 
of Microsoft employees reached out to help by 
applying their knowledge of technology and 
volunteering their time. The Refugee Field Kit, 
developed by Microsoft employees, provided 
displaced people with official identity cards and 
an easier method for finding missing relatives. 
Our employees have continued to refine the 
kit and to work with the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees to address similar 
refugee needs in many different countries.

As technology evolves, and innovative software 
products are developed that make businesses and 
consumers more mobile and productive, some of 
these solutions can help NGOs and volunteers 

meet the challenges of providing disaster relief. 
Groove, a Microsoft product that enables flexible 
peer-to-peer collaboration, is a good example.

A team of Microsoft employees was working 
with a group of NGOs to help doctors deliver 
medical care to remote areas of Afghanistan 
that had no power, no water systems, and no 
mobile-phone connections. The local clinic was 
a two-day drive from the nearest hospital.

“Before introducing technology into the 
equation, it took between two and six weeks 
to coordinate getting the results of tests based 
on tissue samples that were taken locally and 
flown to Pakistan. Doctors had to communicate 
back and forth over long distances however 
they could, a process that often took weeks,” 
said Ray Ozzie, Microsoft’s Chief Software 
Architect. “The goal was to use Groove and 
other technologies in a pilot program to help 
the NGOs reduce the coordination time among 
doctors from weeks down to two days.”

imagine cup: inspiring students to dream

knowledge economy       3

Microsoft Imagine 
Cup, an annual 

technology competition for university students, 
encourages young people to develop software 
solutions that address real-world problems. The 
event rewards the students’ innovative work 
with cash prizes and international recognition.

When Imagine Cup began in 2003, 1,000 
students from 25 countries 
competed for $50,000 in prizes 
in one invitational division: 
Software Design. Imagine Cup 
2006 drew 65,000 students 
from more than 100 countries, 
competing for more than 
$125,000 in prize money in six 
invitationals. The competition 
challenged students to “imagine 
a world where technology 
enables us to live healthier lives.”

One of the many innovative entries in the 
2006 competition was from a team of Brazilian 
university students, who combined GPS 
technology with vibrating wrist bands to create 
a mobile map to help blind people navigate.

The winners were announced in a gala 
awards ceremony in Delhi, India. First 
place winners in each invitational were:

Software Design — Italy.  
Team Even .ctor: Giorgio Sardo, Massimo 
Paternoster, Silvia Perrone, and Andrea Sossich

Algorithm — Poland. Piotr Marek Mikulski

IT — Austria. Andreas Tomek 

Interface Design — Brazil.  
Team Virtual Dreams: Roberto Sonnino and  
Eduardo Sonnino

Short Film — Canada.  
Team Forest: Sam Chow, Nick Haffie-Emslie,  
Ryan Marr, and Meg Majewski 

Project Hoshimi (Programming 
Battle) — France. Team Atomnium: 
Manon Gaucher and Flavien Charlon

3       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

innovation days in asia and europe

Microsoft is committed to helping nations 
and communities worldwide build vibrant 
local software economies. As part of that 
commitment, we establish and operate 
regional research centers to support and 
inspire technology innovation among local 
companies, and we regularly host Innovation 

Day events in different parts of the world. Two 
events in fiscal year 2006 — the Microsoft 
European Research and Innovation Day and 
the India Is Innovation summit — illustrate 
the strength of our commitment and the 
value of our ongoing involvement with local 
economies and industries around the world.

The India Is Innovation event took place in 
Bangalore, India, in April 2006, just four months 
after Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates opened 
the city’s new Microsoft Innovation Center. 
The center provides startup companies with 
resources, guidance, and end-to-end tools to 
help them become commercially successful 

knowledge economy       39

“This agreement [Microsoft’s collaboration with 
the UNWTO to support tourism in developing 
countries and on the continent of Africa] is a huge 
leap forward for tourism-driven job creation, export 
income, and capacity-building for the world’s poorest 
countries — especially in Africa, where it will be integrated 
into our programmes to alleviate poverty through 
sustainable tourism. It links Microsoft’s technology 
and solutions with UNWTO’s central role of advancing 
the sector as an instrument of development.“

— Francesco Frangialli, Secretary General of United 
Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)

and transform innovative ideas into intellectual 
property. The India Is Innovation event built 
on that theme by focusing on Indian startup 
companies and how they can design and build 
world-class software products and solutions.

More than 150 Indian companies participated 
in the event, which brought together 
software entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, 
academic incubators, researchers, and 
industry analysts. Microsoft also provided a 
startup showcase, where fledgling software 
companies could present their ideas and 
proposals to a panel of venture capitalists 
in the hope of securing funding.

“We hope that initiatives such as these not only create 
greater respect for intellectual property rights creation 
among Indian companies, but also serve as an 
impetus to helping them create intellectual property 
out of great ideas, and realize their true potential.”

 — RAvi venkAtesAn, chAiRmAn, micRosoft indiA

The annual Microsoft European Research and 
Innovation Day, held this year in Brussels, 
achieved two key goals. First, it served as a 
showcase for some of the world’s most exciting 
next-generation technologies in areas such 
as mobility, security, and interoperability. 
Second, it gave European software companies 
and entrepreneurs an opportunity to interact 
with leading researchers, academics, and 
policymakers; to get a glimpse of emerging 
technologies; and to see how innovation 
leads to economic growth and job creation.

In his keynote address at the event, Jean-Philippe 
Courtois, President of Microsoft International, 
said that Microsoft has been conducting R&D 
in Europe for nearly a decade because Europe 
consistently produces “some of the brightest 
thinkers, most dedicated universities, and 
most innovative partners in the world.

“In this global age, Europe will need to be not 
only a good place to do business, it must be a 
great place to innovate, too,” Courtois said. “The 
products and ideas coming out of our European 
research laboratories illustrate that Europe still 
has great potential and is not only thriving, but 
is at the forefront of thinking in the IT sector.”

0       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

disaster relief: rapid response and long-term recovery

for real-world problems, and we 
also apply that knowledge and 
experience to disaster relief.

In disaster relief, as in business, we 
work in partnership with others. When 
Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast 
of the United States, Microsoft worked 
with the American Red Cross to create a 
“people finder” solution called  
Katrinasafe.org, now Safe and Well  
(disastersafe.redcross.org). This Web-
based solution reunites families and 
communities and has registered more 
than 300,000 Katrina evacuees. It is also 
being used to help provide relief to victims 
of the Pakistan-India earthquake.

“Creating a Web site and database like Katrinasafe 
.org would normally take months, and our teams 
put it together in less than four days,” said Gerri 
Elliott, Corporate Vice President, Worldwide 
Public Sector at Microsoft. “In the first 24 
hours, more than a thousand people checked 
the site for information on their loved ones.”

Like many corporations around the world, 
Microsoft and its employees are generous 
with donations when disaster strikes. Our 
employees drive and direct the company’s 
relief efforts and often serve as volunteers 
on the front lines of disaster relief.

What really distinguishes our approach to 
disaster relief, however, is the use of business 
and technology expertise to address some of 
the critical challenges faced by individuals and 
communities following a natural disaster. Our 
business is developing technology solutions 

responsible business practices

m A i n t A i n i n G   t h e   h i G h e s t   s t A n d A R d s

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

responsible business practices

As a global corporation, Microsoft has 

its decisions tracked and evaluated 
by industry analysts. Governments in 
100 different countries monitor our activities. 
And millions of other businesses — from 
partners to competitors — keep a 
close eye on everything we do.

Yet our commitment to integrity, transparency, 
and social accountability in our business 
practices goes far beyond meeting the 
expectations of professional observers. People 
care about our business. Microsoft products 
are in homes and offices all over the world, 
where millions of people rely on them for work, 
entertainment, and personal fulfillment. Our 
shareholders and employees are invested 
in our vision and continuing success, and a 
growing number of people worldwide are being 
empowered by innovative Microsoft programs 
that bring them the benefits of technology.

The foundation for all of the work we do is 
our unwavering commitment to responsible 
and ethical business practices — and we 
strive daily to maintain the highest possible 
standards in every aspect of our business.

enABLinG ip oppoRtunity  
And innovAtion

At Microsoft, 
intellectual property 
(IP) is at the heart of 
what we do. Our belief 
in the value of IP and 
the opportunities it 

creates is a clear strategic priority for Microsoft, 
as indicated by the company’s R&D investment 
of more than $6.6 billion in fiscal year 2006. 
IP is a great incentive system that fosters 
innovation and provides a framework that 
promotes business growth and allows innovators 
to effectively bring their ideas to market.

Enabling IP opportunity confers tremendous 
benefits on society: consumers benefit from 
innovation in the form of new products; new 
business and employment opportunities 
are created; local economic growth is 
enabled; productivity gains are achieved; and 
governments gain opportunities for increased 
tax revenue. For example, improved IP 
incentive systems over the past two decades 
have contributed directly to the dramatic 
growth of the IT sector, which consists of 

over 1.1 million businesses, supporting 11 
million high-skill, high-wage IT jobs, and 
adding $1.7 trillion per year to global economic 
prosperity.7 And these figures do not even take 
into account the tremendous efficiency and 
productivity gains that other businesses and 
organizations realize by using IT and through 
the indirect contributions of IT firms. Studies 
have shown that for every dollar of revenue 
generated by these firms, additional revenue 
is generated upstream and downstream in 
supporting supplier and service industries.

Enabling IP opportunity is based on acting 
responsibly and ethically, respecting the IP 
rights of others, and fostering a climate in which 
IP rights are respected by all. One of the most 
fundamental IP rights is the right for those who 
create something to decide how it is used.

7  IDC, Expanding the Frontiers of Our Digital Future: Reducing 
Software Piracy to Accelerate Global IT Benefits, December 
2005 (commissioned by the Business Software Alliance).

to learn more 

about Microsoft’s technology access 

programs, see www.microsoft.com/

about/legal/intellectualproperty/.

to learn more 

about the new Creative Commons copyright licensing 

tool for Microsoft Office, or for a free download, see 

www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx? 

familyid=113B53dd-1cc0-4fBe-9e1d-B91d07c7

6504&displaylang=en.

In 2006, Microsoft worked with Creative 
Commons, a nonprofit organization that 
offers a flexible range of copyright licenses 
for creative works, to develop and release 
a free copyright licensing tool. The new 
downloadable tool makes it easy for people 
who use Microsoft Office applications to embed 
Creative Commons licensing information 
in their work, and thus specify how it can 
be shared or reused. By working with the 
community and Creative Commons, Microsoft 
enabled a simple method for creators and users 
of IP to share and build upon ideas, while 
recognizing and respecting the legitimacy of IP.

Microsoft takes a similar approach to 
patent licensing by respecting the rights 
of other IP holders and licensing its 
products’ innovative technologies as needed. 
Microsoft also makes a wide range of its 
technology available to customers and the 
industry, including competitors, through 
numerous IP licensing programs.

responsible business practices       3

JBoss and Microsoft: Responding 
to Customer Demands
In September 2005, Microsoft and open source 
company JBoss announced plans to explore enhanced 
interoperability between Microsoft Windows Server 
and JBoss Enterprise Middleware System (JEMS), and 
to deepen JBoss support for the Windows Server 
operating system. The goal of the collaboration is to 
provide improved functionality, better integration, 
and lower cost of ownership to customers.

“JBoss is experiencing tremendous growth and is a driving 
force of consolidation of the Java space,” said Bill Hilf, 
Director of Platform Technology Strategy at Microsoft. 
“So it makes sense to work with them on interoperability 
and optimizing for the Windows Server platform.”

Under the agreement, the two companies are 
working together to improve the integration of 
directory services, database software, Web services, 
and systems management tools, which will enable 
customers using both Java and .NET-based programs 
to link and manage their systems more easily. While 
JBoss and Microsoft will continue to compete for 
software developers with their separate Java and 
.NET offerings, they are responding to customer 
and market demands by exploring opportunities to 
integrate their open source and proprietary software 
platforms to improve interoperability and ensure 
an optimized experience for their customers.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

inteRopeRABiLity — customeR-
focused And By desiGn
In today’s heterogeneous IT marketplace, 
interoperability — the ability of diverse IT 
applications or systems to exchange and use 
information — is considered by customers 
to be an increasingly important software 
feature, ranking almost as high as security and 
reliability. Innovative interoperable solutions 
are valued by customers as they seek to reduce 
costs and complexity, and increasingly pick 
and choose the best products from multiple 
vendors to meet their IT needs. Whether it is 
sharing data between applications written in 
different programming languages, or trying 
to log on across multiple systems, Microsoft 
is committed to delivering innovative 
interoperable solutions that enable technologies 
to work together without compromising 
their distinctive underlying capabilities.

Microsoft takes a very customer-focused 
approach to providing translation tools and 
interoperability, and is committed to meeting 
customer and market needs. Because the best 
way to meet customer interoperability needs 
will depend on many factors and circumstances, 
Microsoft does this in a range of ways, including:

§  Designing our software to be interoperable 

“out of the box,” without the need for 
expensive consulting services

§  Working with the community, including 

partners and competitors

§  Providing access to technology

§  Implementing and participating 

in industry standards

Better understanding customer needs

In June 2006, we formed 
the Interoperability 
Customer Executive 
Council as part of 
our commitment to 
listening to customers 
better and meeting their needs. The Council will 
identify areas for interoperability improvements 
in our own products and throughout the software 
industry. It will focus on interoperability 
issues that are of primary importance to 
customers, including document archiving and 
management, heterogeneous management, 
directory management and synchronization, 
virtualization, and data integration and 
exchange. Council members, who are Microsoft 
customers, will have direct contact with 
Microsoft executives and product teams.

The Council will include Chief Information 
Officers, Chief Technology Officers, and 
System Architects from leading corporations 
and governments worldwide. Members 
include the European Commission, Société 
Générale, American Express, Siemens AG, 
Toyota Motor Corporation, LexisNexis, Kohl’s 
Department Stores, Denmark’s Ministry of 
Finance, UNICEF, Brazil’s São Paulo State 
Court of Justice (Tribunal de Justiça do Estado 
de São Paulo–Brazil), Bell Canada, The Boeing 
Company, and NATO’s Communications and 
Information Systems Services Agency (NCSA).

“As part of our commitment to Trustworthy 
Computing, we design our products with 
interoperability in mind so our customers 
can connect to other platforms, applications, 
and data easily,” said Bob Muglia, Senior Vice 
President of the Server and Tools Business at 
Microsoft, who will host the council meetings. 
“The Interoperability Customer Executive 
Council will help us prioritize areas where we 
can achieve greater interoperability through 
product design, collaborative agreements with 
other companies, standards, and effective 
licensing of our intellectual property.”

partnering with communities 

enabling interoperability by 

for Greater interoperability
To serve customers well, competitors 
must also work together. Microsoft is a 
leader in forging strategic partnerships 
with the community, including competing 
companies and technologies, to provide 
customers with increased interoperability.

In February 2006, for example, Microsoft 
and the open source software company 
SugarCRM announced that they would 
work together to enhance interoperability 
between Microsoft Windows Server® and 
SugarCRM products. SugarCRM provides 
customer relations management applications 
for companies of all sizes worldwide.

Microsoft and SugarCRM are working on a 
broad technical collaboration project intended 
to help their mutual customers obtain the 
maximum benefits from both companies’ 
products, including the increased reliability 
and simplified administration available 
on the Windows® platform. (For another 
example of a recent Microsoft interoperability 
partnership, see the JBoss story on page 43.)

providing Access to technology
In addition to delivering interoperability 
by design through customer-focused 
products, community collaboration, and 
standards implementation, Microsoft fosters 
interoperability by making available a wide 
range of its technology to customers and the 
industry, including competitors, through:

Commercial Licenses

Community Licensing. Enables no-cost access 
to technologies that allow others to add-on to our 
products or build their own unique solutions.

The Open Specification Promise. Developed 
with feedback from customers and the open 
source community, it is a simplified method 
for sharing technical assets while recognizing 
the legitimacy of IP. It further highlights 
Microsoft’s commitment to customers and 
meeting their interoperability needs.

for more information 

on Microsoft’s commitment to meeting 

customer interoperability needs and the 

numerous ways Microsoft meets those needs, 

please visit www.microsoft.com/interop/.

responsible business practices       

Open XML Translator: Customer-focused 
Interoperability
Microsoft takes a customer-focused approach to product 
features such as interoperability, responding to customer 
needs for products and solutions that work well with 
those of other companies or the open source community.

A good example is the new Open XML Translator project 
to create a technical bridge between the Open XML and 
OpenDocument (ODF) formats. Microsoft undertook this  
project in response to requests from government agencies  
that work with constituents who use the ODF format.

We are sponsoring the French IT solution provider 
Clever Age and several independent software vendors, 
including Aztecsoft in India and Dialogika in Germany, 
to develop the translators. The tools will be developed 
as open source software projects and housed for 
development work on Sourceforge, the open source 
software community Web site.

We are making the translator tools available as free, 
downloadable add-ins for Microsoft Office 2007 and 
several older versions of the Microsoft Office System, 
which will enable our customers to read and write ODF 
files easily. Many Microsoft Office products already 
include built-in support for dozens of formats, which 
allows widespread interoperability.

The new tools also will be licensed as open source 
software and made broadly available to the industry for 
use with other individual or commercial projects. These 
tools will accelerate the creation of innovations based on 
Open XML and expand customer choice.

 
       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

enviRonmentAL sustAinABiLity
Environmental 
stewardship is an 
important part of 
our business. Over 
the past 30 years, 
we have translated 

our personal beliefs and corporate philosophy 
into meaningful environmental action. This 
year, we have furthered our commitment to 
the environment, focusing our efforts on 
sustainability and continuing innovation.

As of December 31, 2005, we eliminated 
PVC (polyvinyl chloride) from all our 
packaging. We also have reduced our overall 
use of plastic clamshells by 70 percent, and 
continue to explore the use of sustainable 
packaging and biodegradable materials. We 
reduced fuel consumption and greenhouse 
gas emissions through a variety of strategies, 
including employee commuter programs and 
replacing nearly half our fleet of passenger 
vans with fuel-efficient hybrid cars.

We also continued to create productivity and 
communication software that contributes to 
lowered greenhouse gas emissions by reducing 
the need for business travel, as well as operating 
systems with features that can decrease PC 
energy use by more than 50 percent. In Windows 
Vista™, for example, users can choose any of 
three preconfigured power plans that balance 
performance and power consumption in different 
ways — in effect, creating a custom power 
plan tailored precisely to meet their needs. 

In February 2006, we adopted the Microsoft 
Environmental Principles, which formalized 
our ongoing commitment to protect our 
environment and natural resources as well as 
the health and safety of our employees, our 
customers, and local communities. Every 
Microsoft employee shares the responsibility of 
helping the company fulfill these principles.

to learn more 

about the Microsoft Environmental Principles, 

see www.microsoft.com/citizenship/

businesspractices/environmentalprinciples.mspx.

“Green” and Energy-Efficient Buildings

For many years, 
Microsoft has 
been committed 
to constructing 
energy-efficient 
and eco-friendly 

buildings at its corporate facilities. But recently 
we took big steps forward at our campuses 
in Silicon Valley, California, and Hyderabad, 
India, and our newest data center under 
construction in Quincy, Washington.

At an Earth Day celebration in April 2006, 
employees at the Microsoft Silicon Valley 
Campus (SVC) unveiled a new solar panel 
power system — the largest in Silicon Valley. 
The system has 2,288 solar tiles covering 
31,000 square feet on building roofs across 
the campus. It generates 480 kilowatts per 
hour at peak capacity — enough to power 
nearly 500 homes — and will provide 15 
percent of the energy used at SVC.

That same month, Microsoft opened the doors 
to Building 2 on our new campus in Hyderabad, 
India. Building 2 is a state-of-the-art structure 
that incorporates sound environmental design 
and furniture made by local Indian companies.

The east and west ends of the building, where 
the sun is strongest, are made of solid masonry 
to cut down on heat penetration. The building 
is designed to be protected from direct sunlight 
more than 70 percent of the time. Double-
glazed windows allow natural light to enter, 
but sunshades cut glare and save money on 
air conditioning. Lights automatically turn 
off if offices are unoccupied for more than 10 
minutes. Microsoft also built a reservoir that 
will capture and recycle some 36,000 cubic 
meters of rainwater to serve the irrigation 
needs of the 48-acre campus and run energy-
efficient, water-cooled air conditioning units.

In May 2006, we broke ground on our newest 
and largest data center to date. The facility, 
located in Quincy, Washington, will be powered 
by hydroelectricity from the Columbia River 
Basin, a renewable and clean air resource. The 
building design prioritizes energy efficiency, 
water conservation, and the use of green building 
technologies under the Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) rating system.

“The solution to global warming involves everybody 
doing their part, whether riding a bike to work, 
putting solar power on their houses, or buying energy-
efficient appliances. Microsoft is really a leader by 
choosing clean power that will reduce emissions.”

— kuRt newick, sieRRA cLuB memBeR 

And soLAR AdvocAte

responsible business practices       

Avian Influenza Readiness
At Microsoft, the health and safety of our employees 
are top priorities. In answer to worldwide 
concerns over avian influenza, also known as bird 
flu, Lisa Brummel, Senior Vice President, Human 
Resources, established a cross-company global 
team dedicated to raising employee awareness and 
developing preparedness and response plans.

To keep our employees informed, we have compiled 
extensive resources on the Microsoft intranet. 
There, our employees can learn about avian 
influenza and how to stay healthy, keep current 
on relevant news, and get travel advisories.

Preparedness and response plans — created with 
guidance from the World Health Organization 
(WHO), other health agencies, and local 
governments — are being developed for all WHO-
identified pandemic alerts and for specific regions.

Our pioneering approach to avian influenza 
preparedness has led to a number of engagements 
with other companies and government agencies. We 
have participated in simulations, provided expertise to 
businesses creating their own plans, and worked with 
local health departments to develop community plans.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

human rights and the internet

At Microsoft, we recognize that Internet 
companies have a valuable role to play in the 
realization of human rights, including free 
expression. It is important to our business 
that the Internet be fostered and protected as 
a worldwide vehicle for reliable information 
and communications, personal expression, 

innovation, and economic development. 
Accordingly, we are deeply concerned about 
issues of individual security, privacy, and 
government control of Internet content.

We believe the availability of Internet 
services provided by Microsoft and other 

U.S. companies has increased the ability of 
people worldwide to engage in free expression. 
Just in the past few years, there have been 
repeated examples of the ways in which 
official responses to domestic events have been 
affected by the availability of information and 
opinions communicated over the Internet.

At the same time, we continually review the 
overall value of our services in the countries 
where we provide them, and the conditions 
created by local government policies and 
practices. And we are actively engaged 
with concerned parties in developing 
principles to help guide companies in 
managing these difficult issues.

Our perspective is that we will be served 
best as a company, as an industry, and as a 
worldwide community if we can be guided 
by clear principles and policies that address 
human rights and free expression not only 
in the case of blogging, search, e-mail, and 
other services that exist today, but also 
in the variety of technologies that almost 
certainly will be offered in the years ahead.

As an example, in late 2005, the Chinese 
government requested that we remove a 
well-known blogging site on MSN Spaces 
written under the pseudonym of “Michael Anti.” 
The details of that case have been carefully 
reviewed, and although we do not think we 
could have changed the Chinese government’s 
determination to block this particular site, we 
have since clarified the manner in which we 
will deal with similar requests in the future 
by adopting a policy that applies worldwide 
and is intended to promote three principles:

Explicit Standards for Protecting Content 
Access. Microsoft will remove access to blog 
content only when it receives a legally binding 
notice from the government indicating that 
the material violates local laws, or if the 
content violates the service’s terms of use.

Maintaining Global Access. Microsoft will 
remove access to content only in the country 
issuing the order. When blog content is blocked 
due to restrictions based on local laws, the rest 
of the world will continue to have access. This 
is a new capability Microsoft is implementing 
in the Windows Live Spaces infrastructure.

Transparent User Notification. When local 
laws require the company to block access to 
certain content, Microsoft will ensure that 
users know why that content was blocked, 
by notifying them that access has been 
limited due to a government restriction.

for additional information  

about our views on this issue, please see our 

written testimony to the House International 

Relations Committee’s Joint Hearing, posted 

at www.microsoft.com/presspass/exec/

krumholtz/02-15writtentestimony.mspx.

responsible business practices       9

Microsoft Government Leadership Forums
Microsoft Government Leadership Forums (GLFs) are 
regional events for government, industry, and academia 
to explore the use of information and communication 
technologies (ICT). GLFs provide a medium for government 
delegates to formulate successful strategies related to 
connected government, digital learning, employability 
skills, and the transition to the knowledge economy.

In fiscal year 2006, GLFs were held on three continents. 
Bill Gates gave keynotes at each event, focusing on 
technology trends that affect governments and their citizens.

In New Delhi, at GLF Asia, Microsoft announced 
a worldwide network of 90 Microsoft Innovation 
Centers designed to fuel long-term economic 
growth in regions where the centers are located.

The Honourable José Manuel Barroso, President, 
European Commission, was among the speakers at GLF 
Europe, in Lisbon. Jean-Philippe Courtois, President, 
Microsoft International, announced the formation of the 
European Alliance on Skills for Employability as part of 
Microsoft’s 21st Century Skills for Employability initiative.

Microsoft formalized its commitment to the Partnerships 
for Technology Access initiative (see the PTA story on 
page 29) during GLF Americas, held in McLean, Virginia. 

Fiscal Year 2007 began with GLF Africa, held in Capetown.  
Bill Gates and former U.S. President Bill Clinton highlighted  
the critical role that ICT and public-private partnerships 
play in creating a strong, vibrant future for Africa.

0       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

changing the world: microsoft volunteer policy

At Microsoft, we value partnership. Our success 
as a business is built on partnerships and 
collaboration. By far, our most important and 
dynamic partnership is with our employees.

Microsoft employees are smart, passionate people 
who want to change the world. Over the past 30 
years, Microsoft and its employees have donated 

more than $2 billion in communities around 
the world. And that doesn’t even count the value 
of the time our employees have volunteered.

We encourage our employees to get involved 
in their communities, and we make it 
easy for them to volunteer their time. In 
many locations — including Canada and 

most of our subsidiaries in Europe, the 
Middle East, and Asia — we allow full-time 
employees to take three to five days of 
paid volunteer leave each fiscal year.

In the United States, each employee’s 
charitable matching benefit — which matches 
employee donations up to $12,000 every 

responsible business practices       1

Our employees also combine their efforts to 
make a difference as a team. A small project 
team in the Microsoft corporate leadership 
program spent four months as advisors to 
the Grameen Technology Center. The center 
is an initiative of Grameen Foundation, a 
world-renowned microfinance NGO. This 
team worked on business strategy and a 
scalable technology solution to manage 
microlending around the world.

year — includes a match for gifts of time as well 
as money. When employees volunteer their 
time in the community, Microsoft donates 
$17 per hour to the eligible organizations they 
serve. It’s a double benefit for the nonprofit 
groups that our U.S. employees support.

In 2005, Microsoft launched Volunteer 
Connection, an online program that enables 
Microsoft employees in the United States to 
register their volunteer preferences, track 
their volunteer activities, and find volunteer 
opportunities that best match their interests, 
skills, and availability. More than 76,000 
volunteer hours have been reported by U.S. 
employees so far. Eventually, this system will be 
rolled out to Microsoft employees worldwide.

Most of our employee volunteers donate 
their time to projects in or near their home 
communities — talking with children 
about careers in high-tech, advising new 
NGOs on business strategy, building homes 
for low-income families — but a growing 
number are following their interests abroad 
and volunteering in other countries.

In March 2006, Sandra Palmaro, a Microsoft 
Canada employee, took her entire family to 
Tanzania to volunteer at an orphanage. Palmaro 
also volunteers closer to home, working with 
the Boys and Girls Clubs of Canada, where 
she has chaired the board for three years.

Sybille Fleischmann is passionate about the 
outdoors and kayaking. This passion led her 
to Outdoor Recreation Opportunities, an 
organization providing education and training to 
encourage outdoor recreation for people who may 
have difficulty accessing these opportunities. 
She is an Adaptive Paddling Instructor and 
leads kayak tours for paddlers with disabilities.

Employee commitment to the community is 
evident at all levels of the company. Jeff Raikes, 
President, Business Division, and his wife, 
Patricia, are the co-chairs of the United Way of 
King County 2006 Community Campaign. The 
couple will be leading the fundraising drive 
for the next fiscal year, with the goal of raising 
$108 million in order to drive the organization’s 
key priorities: eliminating homelessness 
and preparing all children for school.

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

windows principles — a principled approach to product development

Recognizing the important role that the 
Windows operating system plays in the 
global knowledge economy, Microsoft has 
created a set of voluntary, self-regulating 
principles that will help guide the future 
development of the Windows desktop platform 
worldwide, beginning with Windows Vista.

In announcing the Windows Principles, Microsoft 
General Counsel Brad Smith said, “Our goal is 
to be principled, transparent, and accountable 
as we develop new versions of Windows. These 
voluntary principles are intended to provide 
the industry and consumers with the benefits 
of ongoing innovation, while creating and 
preserving robust opportunities for competition.”

Smith said that the Windows Principles will make 
Microsoft’s approach to Windows development 
clear to customers, partners, and governments 
around the world. The Windows Principles 
exceed the provisions of the U.S. Antitrust 
Ruling and will continue to apply after major 
parts of the ruling expire in November 2007.

responsible business practices       3

The Windows Principles, which consist of 12 
tenets, are divided into three categories:

Choice for Computer Manufacturers and 
Customers. Microsoft is committed to designing 
Windows, and licensing it on contractual 
terms, to make it easy to install non-Microsoft 
programs and to configure Windows-based 
PCs to use non-Microsoft programs instead 
of, or in addition to, Windows features.

Opportunity for Developers. Microsoft is 
committed to designing and licensing Windows 
(and all the parts of the Windows platform) on 
terms that create and preserve opportunities 
for applications developers and Web site 
creators. This encourages the development of 
more innovative products on the Windows 
platform — including products that directly 
compete with Microsoft’s own products.

Interoperability for Users. Microsoft 
is committed to meeting customer 
interoperability needs and will do so in ways 
that enable customers to control their data 
and exchange information with improved 
security and reliability across diverse 
computer systems and applications.

Smith said it is critical for Microsoft and 
regulators to engage in discussion with a goal 

of resolving issues during product development 
and before the release of new products. “We 
are committed to providing information about 
new technologies to regulators, so we can 
pursue an open and constructive dialogue 
before the launch of these new products. 
Given the global nature of the knowledge 
economy, we recognize the importance of 
providing this information on a global basis.”

Smith also stressed that the Windows 
Principles are not intended to supplant the 
continued application of antitrust law or the 
important role of government agencies and 
courts in applying and enforcing this law.

To make certain that the Windows Principles 
continue to reflect current technological, 
business, and legal developments, Microsoft 
intends to review them at least once every 
three years to determine if any new tenets 
should be added or existing ones revised. To 
ensure transparency, any changes will be 
published on the Microsoft Web site.

A complete list 

and detailed explanation of the Windows Principles 

are available at www.microsoft.com/presspass/

newsroom/winxp/windowsprinciples.mspx.

“You, Mr. Bill Gates, are a friend of China, and I’m a 
friend of Microsoft.” — Chinese President Hu

“Technology has expanded opportunities of millions of 
people around the world and — whether expanding 
access to information, education, or healthcare, or 
increasing the collective power of individuals — it 
has an important role to play in creating a thriving, 
competitive Africa. The efforts I’ve seen from Bill 
Gates and companies like Microsoft, in partnership 
with governments, NGOs, and other private-sector 
organizations, are helping Africa in its push to achieve 
the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.”

— Bill Clinton, Former U.S. President

“The Commonwealth is very pleased with Microsoft’s 
progress in creating an open document format. If 
Microsoft follows through as planned, we are 
optimistic that Office Open XML will meet our 
new standards for acceptable open formats.”

— Tom Trimarco, Massachusetts 
Administration and Finance Secretary

“In Bavaria we have been successful in the past years 
with our focus on innovation — and we also owe this 
to the support of companies such as Microsoft.”

— Edmund Stoiber, Bavarian State Prime Minister

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

our company

When Microsoft was founded in 1975, 

even the most visionary among 
us could only begin to imagine 

what computers could become or predict 
the extent to which they would transform 
our world. Yet, today, software is providing 
exciting opportunities for people everywhere.

For more than 30 years, Microsoft has been a 
global leader in creating innovative software that 
enhances nearly every aspect of our personal and 
professional lives. And now we’re working on the 
next wave of breakthrough technology solutions.

ouR mission
At Microsoft, our mission is to enable people 
and businesses throughout the world to realize 
their full potential. Everything we do reflects our 
mission and the values that make it possible.

ouR vALues
As a company, and as individuals, we value:

§  Integrity and honesty

§  Passion for customers, for our 
partners, and for technology

§  Openness and respectfulness

§  Taking on big challenges and 

seeing them through

§  Constructive self-criticism, self-

improvement, and personal excellence

§  Accountability to customers, 

§  Information worker productivity applications

shareholders, partners, and employees 
for commitments, results, and quality

Business opeRAtions
Microsoft does business all around the world. 
We have offices in more than 90 countries, 
which we group into six corporate regions:

§  North America 
§  Latin America 
§  Europe, the Middle 
East and Africa

§  Japan 
§  Asia Pacific 
§  Greater China 

We also have operational centers in Dublin, 
Ireland; Humacao, Puerto Rico; Reno, Nevada; 
and Singapore. The operational centers are 
responsible for licensing, operations and 
logistics, and manufacturing, although not 
every center performs all of these functions.

Microsoft generates revenue by 
developing, manufacturing, licensing, 
and supporting a wide range of software 
products and services, including:

§  Operating systems for servers, personal 
computers (PCs), and intelligent devices

§  Server applications for distributed 

computing environments

§  Business solutions

§  Software development tools

§  Consulting and product support services

§  Training and certification for system 

integrators and developers

§  Xbox and Xbox 360 video game consoles 
and games, PC games, and peripherals

§  Online communication and information 

services through our MSN portals 
and channels around the world

We also research and develop advanced 
technologies for future software products. 
Delivering breakthrough innovation and high-
value solutions through our integrated platform 
is the key to meeting our customers’ ever-
changing needs and ensuring our future growth.

We have laid a solid foundation for long-term 
success by making global citizenship an 
integral part of our business, consistently 
delivering innovative new products, improving 
our internal processes, creating opportunity 
for our partners, and increasing customer 
satisfaction. We are continuing to build on this 
foundation through the work we do every day.

our company       

finAnciAL RepoRt
On July 20, 2006, Microsoft announced 
revenue of $44.28 billion for the fiscal year 
that ended June 30, 2006, an 11 percent 
increase over the previous year. Operating 
income for the fiscal year was $16.47 billion, 
or 13 percent over the previous year. In fiscal 
year 2006, Microsoft returned more than 
$23 billion to shareholders in the form of 
dividends and share repurchases and invested 
$6.58 billion in research and development.

for additional details 

see the 2006 Microsoft Annual Report at 

LeGAL disputes
In fiscal year 2006, Microsoft continued 
working to resolve existing legal disputes in an 
effort to clear the way for new opportunities 
and more innovative products for our 
customers worldwide. At the same time, a 
few ongoing issues evolved significantly.

Additional information 

about Microsoft’s active involvement in legal 

issues, whether specific to Microsoft or more 

generally applicable to the software industry, is 

available at www.microsoft.com/about/legal/.

www.microsoft.com/msft/ar.mspx.

A more detailed explanation 

Revenue and Operating Income
as reported in the 2005 annual report
$50,000

$45,000

$40,000

$35,000

$30,000

$25,000

$20,000

$15,000

$10,000

$5,000
0

2005

2006

Revenue
Operating Income

of Microsoft’s legal issues in fiscal year 

2006 is available in the Notes section 

of the 2006 Microsoft Annual Report at 

www.microsoft.com/msft/ar.mspx.

2006 Revenue by Segment
as reported in the 2005 annual report

$4,256

$377

$2,298
$919

$13,209

$11,756

$11,467

coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce
At Microsoft, we believe strong corporate 
governance is a fundamental component 
of our business success — and we 
operate the company on that basis.

Our Board of Directors establishes the standards 
and policies for corporate governance, ethics, 
and compliance throughout Microsoft. The 
Board’s role is to oversee the work of management 
in conducting the company’s business and to 
serve the long-term interests of shareholders. 
The Board believes that taking account of 
the interests of other stakeholders such as 
employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and 
the many communities around the world where 
we do business is an important component of 
achieving shareholders’ long-term interests.

for a list of Board members 

more information about Board responsibilities,  

or copies of Board committee charters, see  

www.microsoft.com/about/companyinformation/

corporategovernance/default.mspx.

Client
Server and Tools
Information Worker
Microsoft Business Solutions
MSN
Mobile and Embedded Devices
Home and Entertainment

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

looking ahead

Global citizenship is not a task to 

be completed — it is a process that 
requires continuous action and 

engagement to move it forward and help it 
grow. We are pleased with the progress we have 
made and the positive changes our citizenship 
work has brought about in communities 
and individual lives worldwide. Those 
achievements are the result of the extraordinary 
dedication and innovative thinking of 
Microsoft employees around the world.

To guide us as our citizenship work 
continues, we have set five goals for 
fiscal year 2007 and beyond:

Innovation. To improve technology 
access to underserved populations by 
developing new products and supporting 
the growth of local software economies. 

Responsible Business Leadership. To 
further the integration of responsible business 
practices into the core elements of our business, 
including product development, product 
life cycle planning, environmental impacts 
assessments, employee accountability, and 
advocacy of responsible industry policies.

Security and Internet Safety. To work 
collaboratively with partners in industry, 
nongovernmental organizations, and 
governments worldwide to make computing 
safer, to improve and enhance the security 
features of our products, and to increase 
consumers’ awareness of how they can protect 
themselves and their families online.

Digital Inclusion. To continue to make 
progress toward our goal of providing 
technology access and skills training to 
a quarter of a billion people by 2010.

Employee Engagement. To increase 
employee awareness of and involvement in 
each of our global citizenship efforts.

We have learned much over the years about our 
role and responsibility as a global corporate 
citizen, and how we can use our resources and 
influence to create opportunities for more people 
worldwide. We don’t have all of the answers. 
No one does. By working in close collaboration 
with our government, NGO, and industry 
partners, however, we can continue to improve 
and refine our approach to global citizenship 
and make a meaningful difference in the world.

awards

our company       

Over the course of the fiscal year, 

Microsoft has been recognized for 
its citizenship activities around 

the world. This recognition includes awards 
for business ethics, labor practices, diversity, 
accessibility, innovation, corporate citizenship, 
and Internet safety. A partial list includes:

inteRnAtionAL RecoGnition
Corporate Voices of Courage, Women’s 
Commission for Refugee Women and Children

World’s Most Respected Company (ranking = 1), 
Financial Times and PricewaterhouseCoopers

Global Most Admired Companies 
2006 All-Stars (6), Fortune

Argentina
Best Companies to Work for in Latin 
America 2005 & 2006, Great Places 
to Work Institute Latin America

Best Companies in Argentina 2005 (6), 
Great Places to Work Institute Argentina

Sadosky Award, Top foreign business supporting 
the local industry in the investment in Argentina,  
Chamber of Software Businesses and Information  
Services (CESSI)

Australia
Longevity Award, Prime Minister’s Awards for 
Excellence in Community Business Partnerships

Canada
Most Respected Corporations (14), Globe & Mail  
and KPMG report on business

Recognition in Heroes & Builders section 
of Canada Day special feature, Maclean’s

Chile
Good Corporate Citizenship 2005, Camara 
Chileno Americana de Comercio

Outstanding Support to the Software 
Industry Award, Grupo de Empresas 
Chilenas de Software (GECHS)

China
Best Corporate Citizenship Practice Award 
(finalist), 21st Century Business Review 
and 21st Century Business Herald

Trustworthy Platform Award and Trustworthy 
Personal Security Service Provider Award, 
State Council IT Office, Ministry of 
Public Security, and State China National 
Computer Emergency Response Team

2005 CSC Enabling Technology Award,  
Australian Computer Society (ACS) and  
Australian Information Industry 
Association (AIIA NT)

Austria
Best Workplaces in Austria 2006 (19), Die Presse 
and Great Places to Work Institute Austria

Trigos Award 2006, Association of Industrialists 
and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce

Brazil
Best Companies to Work for in Latin 
America 2005 & 2006, Great Places 
to Work Institute Latin America

Best Employers in Latin America,  
Hewitt Associates and América Economía

Recognition Award for contributing to the 
first job program in the city of Guarulhos, 
Brazilian Ministry of Labor and Oxigênio

Most Admired Companies (top 10), Carta Capital

Best Government Suppliers (top 10), TI & Governo

Best Companies to Work For (top 10), Você S/A

       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

Colombia
Best Companies to Work for in Latin 
America 2005 & 2006, Great Places 
to Work Institute Latin America

Best Companies in Colombia 2005 (12), 
Great Places to Work Institute Colombia

Recognition for continuous support to 
Computers for Education program, First 
Lady of Colombia Lina de Uribe and Ministry 
of Communications and Education

Social Responsibility Award in the Community 
Support Category (nomination), Portafolio

Costa Rica
Contribution to the Community Award for 
Corporate Social Responsibility 2005,  
Costa Rican – American Chamber 
of Commerce (AMCHAM)

Most Admired Multinational Company 
Working in the Region (top 10), 
Estrategia & Negocios Survey

Finland
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006,  
Financial Times and the Great Places 
to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in Finland 2006 (1),  
Kauppalehti and Great Places to 
Work Institute Finland

France
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006,  
Financial Times and Great Places 
to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in France 2006 (3), Great 
Places to Work Institute France

Guatemala
Award for Corporate Social Responsibility  
in the education category,  
Guatemalan-American Chamber of Commerce

India
IT Ratna of the Millennium,  
in recognition of work in the field of localization 
and education, Government of Maharashtra

WISTEX Award,  
in recognition of large contributions towards the 
government’s IT literacy program for schools,  
Government of Uttaranchal

Ireland
O2 Ability Award

Italy
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006,  
Financial Times and Great Places 
to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in Italy 2006 (1),  
Great Places to Work Institute Italy

Japan
MIC Minister’s Award 2006,  
Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications

Most-Respected Brand (1),  
Nikkei Brand Perception Survey

our company       9

Mexico
Best Companies to Work for in Latin 
America 2005 & 2006, Great Places 
to Work Institute Latin America

Best Companies in Mexico 2005 (11) & 2006 (13),  
Great Places To Work Institute Mexico and  
Grupo Editorial Expansión

Ethics and Values in the Industry, 
National Confederation of Industrial 
Chambers (CONCAMIN)

Socially Responsible Business Award, Mexican 
Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI)

The Netherlands
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006,  
Financial Times and Great Places 
to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in Netherlands 2006 (2),  
Great Places to Work Institute the Netherlands

Norway
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006, Financial 
Times and Great Places to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in Norway 2006 (1), 
Great Places to Work Institute Norway

Peru
Best Companies in Peru 2005 (9),  
Great Places to Work Institute Peru

Recognition for Ethics and Values 
in the IT Industry, Bitacora

Philippines
Anvil Award of Excellence, Public Relations 
Society of the Philippines (PRSP)

Gold Quill Award of Merit, International 
Association of Business Communicators (IABC)

Poland
Environmentally Friendly Best Practice, 
Responsible Business Forum

Best Employer 2005, Hewitt Associates

Portugal
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006,  
Financial Times and Great Places 
to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in Portugal 2006 (2), Publico 
and Great Places to Work Institute Portugal

Singapore
Work-Life Excellence Award, 
Ministry of Manpower

Spain
Best Workplaces in Spain 2006 (4),  
Great Places to Work Institute Spain

Sweden
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006, Financial 
Times and Great Places to Work Institute Europe 

Best Workplaces in Sweden 2006 (1),  
Veckans Affärer and Great Places 
to Work Institute Sweden

United Kingdom
100 Best Workplaces in Europe 2006, Financial 
Times and Great Places to Work Institute Europe

Best Workplaces in the United Kingdom 
2006 (5), Great Places to Work Institute 

United Kingdom Business for Age Award, 
Help the Aged Living Legends Awards

Best Practice and Business Award for 
Excellence, Business in the Community 
Awards, 2006, Financial Times and 
Department of Trade and Industry

0       partners in innovation — Microsoft 2006 Global Citizenship Report

United States
America’s Most Admired Companies 
2006 (10), Fortune

100 Best Companies to Work 
For 2006 (42), Fortune

100 Best Companies to Work For with Over 
10,000 employees 2005 (12), Fortune

Circle of Humanitarian Award, 
American Red Cross

Summit Award for Employee Community 
Engagement in the Spirit of America Award 
program, United Way of America (UWA)

100 Best Companies 2005, Working Mother

Best Workplaces for Commuters,  
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and 
United States Department of Transportation

2005 Corporate Equality Index  
[gay, lesbian, transgender, bisexual] (1),  
Human Rights Campaign

Top 50 Employers (1),  
CAREERS & the disABLED

Ideal Employer (16),  
American MBA Edition of the 2006 Universum 
Survey, Universum Communications

Ideal Employer (6), Undergraduate 
Edition of the 2006 Universum Survey, 
Universum Communications

Distinguished Online Communications, 
Society for Technical Communications (STC), 
Puget Sound Chapter (Washington State)

Ideal Employer for IT Graduates (2), 
Undergraduate Edition of the 2006 Universum 
Survey, Universum Communications

Large Employer of the Year, Governor’s 
Committee on Disabilities and 
Employment (Washington State)

2005 Corporation of the Year,  
Charlotte Post Foundation (North Carolina)

2005 Million-Dollar Circle Award  
(top 5 corporate donor), United Way of the 
Central Carolinas (North Carolina)

VIP Corporate Award 2005, American 
Heart Association (North Carolina)

Venezuela
UNICEF Counts on You Award for businesses 
that support UNICEF projects through 
actions and contributions, UNICEF

Ideal Employer (5), American Diversity 
Edition of the 2006 Universum Survey, 
Universum Communications

Ideal Employer by Undergraduates (3),  
American Diversity Edition of the 2006 
Universum Survey, Universum Communications

Ideal Employer by Hispanic Americans (4),  
American Diversity Edition of the 2006 
Universum Survey, Universum Communications

Top Employer of the Year (5),  
The Black Collegian Magazine

Top 100 Employers 2005 (14), The Black 
Collegian Online, Universum Communications

America’s Top Organizations for Multicultural 
Business Opportunities 2005 (26),  
DiversityBusiness.com

Corporation of the Year 2006,  
Northwest Minority Council (serving Alaska, 
Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington) 

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052 USA
Phone: 425.882.8080
www.microsoft.com

Microsoft Asia Pacific
1 Marina Boulevard #22 – 01, Singapore 018989
Phone: 65.6882.8899
www.microsoft.com/asia

Microsoft Greater China
19/F, Millennium Tower, 38 Xiaoyun Road
Chaoyang, Beijing 100027, P.R. China
Phone: 86.10.8453.8585
www.microsoft.com/china

Microsoft Japan
Odakyu Southern Tower, 2-2-1 Yoyogi
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8583, Japan
Phone: 81.3.4332.5300
www.microsoft.com/japan

Microsoft Europe, Middle East & Africa
Coeur Défense, Tour B – 37e étage
100, Esplanade du Général de Gaulle
92932 Paris La Défense Cédex France
Phone: 33.1.70.99.10.00
www.microsoft.com/emea

Microsoft Latin America
6750 North Andrews Avenue, Suite 400
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309 USA
Phone: 954.489.4800
www.microsoft.com/latam

Microsoft Canada
1950 Meadowvale Boulevard
Mississauga, Ontario L5N 8L9 Canada
Phone: 905.568.0434
www.microsoft.com/canada

This report is printed on New Leaf Opaque 100, White, 
80 lb. cover and 80 lb. text, which are made with 
process-chlorine-free 100% post-consumer waste fiber.

New Leaf Paper is an FSC certified paper broker.

Printed on paper containing 100% post-consumer waste.

t o  a c c e s s  t h i s  i n f o r m a t i o n  o n l i n e ,  v i s i t : 
w w w . m i c r o s o f t . c o m / c i t i z e n s h i p

© 2006 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. Microsoft, Excel, MSN, PowerPoint, Windows, Windows Live, 

Windows Server, Windows Vista, Xbox, Xbox 360, and Xbox Live are either registered trademarks or trademarks 

of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are property of their 

respective owners. Part No. 098-106244

