2009

Corporate Citizenship @ Microsoft 
Addressing Societal Needs in the Global Community 

Microsoft Mission

To help people and
businesses throughout  
the world realize  
their full potential.

1

Contents

Welcome .................................................................................................................................................................... 2

Partnering to Address Societal Needs ....................................................................................................... 3

Extending the Benefits of Technology: Microsoft Unlimited Potential ................................... 4

 T

ransforming Education ......................................................................................................................... 5

Fostering Local Innovation .................................................................................................................... 5

Enabling Jobs and Opportunities ....................................................................................................... 5

Responsible Business Practices ...................................................................................................................... 7

Environmental Stewardship .................................................................................................................. 8

Preserving Freedom of Expression ..................................................................................................... 8

Helping People and Communities in Crisis ..................................................................................... 9

Supporting Local Communities.........................................................................................................10

Investing in Innovative R&D ...............................................................................................................10

Advancing Privacy, Internet Safety and Security ........................................................................11

Protecting Intellectual Property and New Innovations ............................................................12

Interoperability: Enabling Technologies to Work Better Together .......................................12

Looking Ahead .....................................................................................................................................................13

Report Scope:
This document provides an overview of Microsoft’s worldwide citizenship programs and activities.  
For additional information about corporate citizenship at Microsoft, please visit our Web site at  
www.microsoft.com/citizenship. In addition, Microsoft provides responses for many of the Global Re-
porting Initiative G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines through the data provider OneReport. These 
responses are available to analysts at www.one-report.com.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2    Corporate Citizen ship @ Microsof t 2009

Welcome

At Microsoft, our mission is to help people and businesses around the world realize their 

full potential. Our commitment to achieving this mission is reflected in the many ways our 

products and services enable information to be used, managed and shared. And it is under-

scored by our efforts to increase access to technology in order to help people improve their 

lives, particularly in underserved communities. 

As the world’s largest software company—with more than 90,000 employees in over 

100 countries—Microsoft has an important role to play in helping to advance social and 

economic opportunities in the communities where we work, live and do business. We work closely with gov-

ernments, community organizations and other businesses around the world to support efforts to transform 

communities through the expertise and knowledge of our local employees as well as the financial and software 

resources of the company.

Particularly in today’s volatile economic environment, it’s important that businesses, governments, com-

munity organizations and individuals work together to provide the training, infrastructure and technology 

that enable expanded opportunities and sustainable economic growth and prosperity. With the support of our 

employees and in alliance with our many partners, I am optimistic that Microsoft will continue to make positive 

and lasting contributions to society.

Steven A. Ballmer
Chief Executive Officer 
Microsoft Corporation

3

Microsoft Supports UN  
Millennium Development Goals

In September 2008, Microsoft renewed its 
support for the United Nations Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), a global frame-
work for human development that unites 
many governments, NGOs and businesses. 
The goals include:

•	

•	

•	

•	

Eradicating extreme poverty

Reducing child mortality

Combating diseases such as malaria 
and HIV/AIDS

Extending primary education to all 
children 

•	

Providing jobs for all who seek them

We are applying technology expertise as 
well as financial and volunteer support to 
help achieve the MDG targets.

Partnering to Address Societal Needs
In many parts of the world, information and com-

countries where we do business, we work with and 
through governments and development and commu-
nity organizations to address societal needs.

munications technology (ICT) has enabled people 
to communicate, collaborate and share knowledge 
in exciting and remarkable new ways. These advances 
have led to increased productivity in business and 
government and have created millions of new jobs in 
developed and developing countries alike. The next 
generation of innovations—such as Microsoft’s Soft-
ware-plus-Services offerings—promise even greater 
possibilities to expand the benefits of software and 
the Internet. 

Yet, despite the potential for technology to help 
create a truly interconnected global community, its 
benefits are still largely unknown to 80 percent of the 
world’s population. It’s no coincidence that many of 
society’s most persistent and pervasive challenges—
limited education, inadequate healthcare, unemploy-
ment—are especially hard-hitting in these under-
served communities.

These social and economic problems are too great 

for any single government, charitable organization 
or business to solve alone. As the world’s largest 
software company, Microsoft is committed to doing 
its part to help address them through the skills and 
commitment of our employees, the capabilities of our 
products, and financial contributions.

Just as partnership is central to Microsoft’s busi-

ness strategy, it is also the foundation of our ap-
proach to corporate citizenship. In the more than 100 

Our citizenship investments reflect a belief that 
social and economic opportunity go hand in hand. 
When individuals, communities and governments are 
empowered and enabled, they thrive, thus creating a 
virtuous cycle of socioeconomic opportunity.

“The opportunities for innovation  

are incredible. And the Millennium  

Development Goals can guide the 

search for new discoveries by showing 

us where innovation can bring 

microsoft.com/mdg

the biggest returns.”

—Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates
Remarks to the UN General Assembly  
September 2008

4     

Extending the Benefits of Technology:
Microsoft Unlimited Potential
Technology has tremendous potential to empower local communities, create 

jobs and facilitate healthy, sustainable growth. However, individuals and com-

munities underserved by technology are increasingly at risk of being pushed to 

the economic, educational and social margins of the global community.

The goal of Microsoft  

Unlimited Potential  

is to deliver technology that 

is relevant to people’s social 

and economic needs, is  

readily accessible by  

individuals and  

communities, and is  

affordable to people with 

little or no income.

Microsoft Unlimited Potential, launched in 2007, aims to help address this inequity 

by weaving together the company’s software innovations, business strategies and 

citizenship efforts to reach the 5 billion people who today have little or no access to 

technology and the opportunities it affords. 

Unlimited Potential focuses on actions to transform education, foster local 
innovation and enable jobs and opportunities. Working across these three 
areas with a global network of partners in the public, nonprofit and private sectors,  

we seek to create a virtuous cycle of sustained social and economic development that 

encompasses all communities.

microsoft.com/unlimitedpotential

5

Transforming Education

A good education is essential for people to achieve 
their personal potential and to contribute socially and 
economically to the growth of their community. Since 
2004, Microsoft has worked to reach more than 100 
million students and to help improve the quality of 
education through efforts such as Partners in Learn-
ing (PiL), a 10-year, US$500 million program aimed 
at increasing schools’ access to technology, fostering 
innovative approaches to teaching, enhancing teach-
ers’ professional development and providing educa-
tion leaders with the tools to envision, implement and 
manage change. Over the next five years, PiL plans 
to reach 10 million teachers with guidance on how to 
impart basic digital literacy skills, integrate technology 
into teaching and share their knowledge with other 
educators. 

We are also helping to broaden access to technol-

ogy in the learning environment through product 
offerings such as the Microsoft® Student Innovation 
Suite, an affordable and reliable software package 
available to qualifying governments that purchase PCs 
for students to use at school and at home.

Fostering Local Innovation

To help foster innovation and economic development 
in local communities, Microsoft collaborates with busi-
ness organizations, educators and government leaders 
on programs that help new companies get started 
and grow. In more than 60 countries, 110 Microsoft 
Innovation Centers offer courses in business skills for 

entrepreneurs, software and hardware resources for IT 
developers, employment programs for students, and 
valuable partnership and development opportunities 
for emerging businesses. Another program, Microsoft 
BizSpark™, helps software startups get off the ground 
by providing affordable access to Microsoft tools and 
technologies, along with support from entrepreneurial 
experts and marketing visibility from Microsoft. We 
also work closely with governments to make technol-
ogy more broadly available to first-time PC users in 
underserved countries.

Enabling Jobs and Opportunities

Local communities need a skilled workforce to help 
companies compete globally, attract new busi-
ness investments and create sustainable economic 
growth. Microsoft works with local partners to deliver 
programs that accelerate technology skills develop-
ment, expand entrepreneurship and increase the pool 
of qualified job candidates available to employers. 
Through our Community Technology Skills Program, 
for example, we support more than 1,000 nongov-
ernmental organizations (NGOs) that provide ICT 
skills training to people in underserved communities. 
These skills help people to enter and advance in the 
workforce as well as become more confident in using 
computers to achieve their personal goals. 

Students at the Chitralada School.

MultiPoint Extends IT Resources  
to Reach Young Learners

At the Chitralada School in downtown Bangkok, 
Thailand, a dozen students cluster around a 
single laptop PC to begin their English lesson. 
When teacher Sutima Pongpunngam turns 
on the laptop, a projection screen at the front 
of the room comes alive with a dozen mouse 
cursors pointing in every direction.

Sutima and her students are making 

optimal use of the school’s scarce technology 
resources with the help of software built on 
Microsoft’s MultiPoint™ technology, a suite 
of tools that allow developers to extend the 
reach of a single PC by enabling multiple 
input devices—such as mice, keyboards or 
game controllers—to be used simultane-
ously. Advisers from the Microsoft Partners in 
Learning initiative are working with Thailand’s 
Ministry of Education to expand use of the 
application, particularly in underserved com-
munities with limited access to computers.

“Our children come from poor families,” 

says one instructor. “Computers let them 
travel the world.”

microsoft.com/multiptcs

6    Corporate Citizen ship @ Microsof t 2009

Changing Lives Around the World

Underserved Moroccans Learn  
Computer Skills on Refurbished PCs 

Localized Software Translation 
Helps Keep Tatar Language Alive

Opening ICT Career Opportunities  
to Brazil’s Disadvantaged Youth

In the ancient city of Fez, Morocco, Abdul Samadi 
Labkar runs an Internet café that at first glance is 
typical of many in developing countries. But this 
one is unique. In a culture that hasn’t yet fully em-
braced the possibilities for people with disabilities, 
Labkar offers low-priced computer courses for the 
disabled.

Labkar also uses refurbished PCs provided by 
Assoclic—an alliance of NGOs and private compa-
nies that are committed to providing technology 
access and skills training to underserved popula-
tions in Morocco.

As a key member of Assoclic, Microsoft has 
provided IT skills training curriculum and funding 
to train computer instructors for Labkar’s computer 
center and many others in Morocco. And in line 
with its efforts to increase the reuse of older but 
still functional computers, Microsoft has provided 
the center with affordable genuine Windows® soft-
ware through the Community Microsoft Authorized 
Refurbisher program.

Located 500 miles east of Moscow, the Tatarstan 
Republic is one of the most economically devel-
oped regions of Russia. But the region’s native lan-
guage, Tatar, has been at risk of becoming obsolete 
as Russian has become more favored. While Tatar is 
taught in all of the region’s 2,400 schools, a lack of 
supporting technology has prevented many teach-
ers from implementing Tatar-based lessons using 
computers.

In 2005, the Tatarstan Republic government 
began working with Microsoft Russia to develop 
and expand a Local Language Program (LLP) 
technology tool that solves this challenge. The Tatar 
Language Interface Pack (LIP) technology provides 
a Tatar translation of Microsoft Windows XP at no 
charge. Available as a simple download from the 
Web, the LIP brings Tatar-based ICT tools to more 
than 5 million people in Russia. Microsoft Rus-
sia has also delivered a Tatar version of Windows 
Vista® and the 2007 Microsoft Office system in the 
republic.

microsoft.com/moroccocs

microsoft.com/tatarcs

Without basic computer skills, many young adults 
in Brazil and other Latin American countries face 
even greater challenges finding jobs. As part of our 
Community Technology Skills Program, Microsoft 
is partnering with the nonprofit Oxigenio and the 
Brazilian Ministry of Labor to provide ICT skills 
training for disadvantaged young people. Oxigen-
io’s network of 1,500 community technology cen-
ters is on track to serve more than 980,000 people 
throughout Brazil. Supported by donations of cash, 
software and training from Microsoft, Oxigenio 
provides training in computer hardware repair and 
maintenance along with courses in installing and 
configuring software. Students also learn to use 
the Internet as well as word processing, spread-
sheet, presentation and database applications. Once 
students complete the training, Oxigenio provides 
job placement assistance to help put their new skills 
into action. 

microsoft.com/brazilcs

Abdul Samadi Labkar, Morocco.

Tatar Language Interface Pack.

Students at an Oxigenio technology training center.

Responsible Business Practices
At Microsoft, our commitment to responsible business practices is reflected in 

our culture of business integrity, accountability and transparency 
and in our approach to corporate governance. Governance at Microsoft starts 

with an independent board of directors that establishes, maintains and monitors com-

panywide standards and policies for ethics, business practices, compliance and financial 

controls. 

All employees are responsible for understanding and complying with the Microsoft 

Standards of Business Conduct, including participating in training that explains the regu-

latory requirements and internal practices that guide our corporate decision making and 

activities. Our vendors are expected to adhere to the highest standards of ethical behav-

ior and regulatory compliance and operate in the best interests of Microsoft.

Building on this foundation, Microsoft works to be a responsible leader across a 

range of policy areas and programs, including environmental sustainability, human 

rights, disaster response and humanitarian relief, protecting customers’ privacy and  

security, and building more interoperable technologies.

microsoft.com/responsible

7

UN Global Compact
Aligning Business and Citizenship

Microsoft’s endorsement of the UN Global 
Compact signifies that we are committed to 
aligning our business operations and strategies 
with 10 established principles spanning human 
rights, labor, the environment and business 
ethics. These principles—which correspond 
with Microsoft’s global corporate citizenship 
values—help guide our efforts to achieve 
greater accountability and drive continuous 
improvement in our business practices. Our 
involvement in the UN Global Compact also 
brings new opportunities to partner with other 
organizations that share our commitment. 

microsoft.com/humanrights

8    Corporate Citizen ship @ Microsof t 2009

Microsoft’s Global Economic Impact 

Environmental Stewardship

$120 billion
The amount that more than
500,000 hardware, software,
services and other companies
in the Microsoft ecosystem were
projected to invest in their local
economies in 2008.

42 percent
Total IT employment that Microsoft 
and its partner ecosystem accounted 
for globally in 2007.

7.79 units
Average amount of revenue that 
local partners earn for every unit of 
revenue that Microsoft earns.

microsoft.com/economicimpact

Source: IDC Economic Impact Studies for Microsoft, 2007

As the world’s largest software company, Microsoft is 
committed to reducing the environmental impact of its 
operations and products. We are also using the power of 
software innovation to help others reduce their environ-
mental footprint. And we are supporting global action 
through alliances with governmental, nongovernmental, 
academic and industry organizations.

New Microsoft-owned facilities, designed to meet or 
exceed LEED Silver energy efficiency standards, consume 
at least 20 percent less energy than traditional buildings. 
At our headquarters campus in the U.S., a free bus service 
for employees is eliminating more than 6.7 million car 
miles and nearly 3,200 tons of carbon emissions annually. 
But beyond minimizing our own footprint, Microsoft’s 

most important contributions in this area could come 
from software innovations. Windows Vista is Microsoft’s 
most energy-efficient operating system to date. Ac-
cording to the Natural Resources Defense Council, the 
energy-saving features of Windows Vista could cut users’ 
energy bills by more than US$50 per PC per year, thereby 
eliminating 3 million tons of carbon emissions from elec-
tric power plants each year in the United States alone. 

A free Connector bus 
shuttles employees 
to the Microsoft 
campus in Redmond, 
Washington.

Other Microsoft solutions, such as our unified com-
munications software, enable businesses to streamline 
communications and conduct virtual meetings online, 
thereby helping to reduce the need for business travel, 
commuting and physical document transfers and print-
ing. Through a partnership with the Clinton Founda-
tion, we also offer software tools that enable cities to 
easily track, manage and report on their greenhouse gas 
emissions and build action plans to reduce their carbon 
footprint.

microsoft.com/environment

Working with other companies in the  
Climate Savers Computing Initiative, we 
have set a goal to reduce the carbon  
footprint of computer use by 54 million 
tons per year by 2010.

Preserving Freedom of Expression

Support for basic human rights is essential to build-
ing healthy communities and fundamental to how 
Microsoft does business. As a worldwide Internet 
content and services provider, we are particularly 
attentive to preserving free expression and broad 
access to information on the Web so that the Internet 
and related communications technologies remain a 
platform for open, diverse and unimpeded content 
and commerce. 

We recognize that the use of these technologies 
raises issues that often justify government attention, 

 
9

UN Photo/Brendan McDonald

Victim of Myanmar disaster, 2008. 

Web Portal Helps Relief  
Agencies Coordinate Resources

Immediately after a cyclone and heavy flood-
ing devastated Myanmar in May 2008, killing 
several hundred thousand people, Microsoft’s 
Disaster Assistance and Response Team ar-
rived in the region to help the UN Office for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and 
other relief organizations assess how technol-
ogy could assist aid workers. Microsoft and 
several partners teamed up to develop and 
deploy the Humanitarian Information Center 
(HIC), a Web-based portal built on Microsoft 
SharePoint® Server 2008 that provides public 
information and collaboration workspaces 
for each of the humanitarian relief organiza-
tions responding to the needs of Myanmar’s 
people. This site gives organizations a single 
source of reliable data about the situation in 
Myanmar and a platform for coordinating the 
response efforts on a daily basis.

myanmar.humanitarianinfo.org

especially on matters of privacy, national security and 
the protection of children. In addressing these issues, 
governments around the world make differing judg-
ments about the legal standards and policy trade-
offs appropriate to their own cultures and national 
circumstances. In doing so, governments should act 
in a manner that fulfills their duty to protect interna-
tionally recognized human rights, such as the rights 
of privacy and freedom of expression. 

We also recognize that company operations and 

responses to government regulation can have an 
impact on the realization of these rights. In response, 
Microsoft has joined with a diverse coalition of or-
ganizations to launch the Global Network Initiative, 
which has established principles and guidelines for 
how companies can respond to regulatory demands 
and make business decisions in ways that can help 
protect these rights. The goals of the initiative also 
include collaborating with others to promote laws, 
policies and practices that respect freedom of expres-
sion and privacy, and to develop credible systems of 
accountability among participants in the initiative.

microsoft.com/humanrights

Helping People and Communities in Crisis

Microsoft and its employees actively assist individu-
als and communities affected by natural disasters 
and other crises, such as the May 2008 earthquake in 
southwest China. In response to that tragedy, we do-
nated more than US$1.7 million toward relief efforts 
and pledged another $1.4 million over two years to 

help rebuild schools in Sichuan Province.

Our primary focus is on providing software and 
technology expertise to help strengthen the emer-
gency response capabilities of NGOs. We work with 
NetHope, a consortium of 25 leading NGOs dedicat-
ed to emergency response and international develop-
ment, on innovative uses of technology to help them 
better prepare for and support communications and 
response during times of crisis. Microsoft has contrib-
uted more than US$42 million in software and cash to 
NetHope member organizations over the past three 
years.

Since 1999, we have worked closely with the Office 
of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) 
to provide displaced people in dozens of countries 
with access to technology tools, skills training and 
other essential services. Microsoft has also helped 
launch two programs designed to help protect the 
rights of detainees in the U.S. immigration system. 
Volunteer Advocates for Immigrant Justice (VAIJ), 
created in 2003, provides pro bono legal representa-
tion to detained immigrants in Washington State. In 
October 2008, Microsoft joined with UNHCR Goodwill 
Ambassador Angelina Jolie to launch Kids in Need 
of Defense, a national initiative modeled after VAIJ 
that focuses on helping unaccompanied immigrant 
children in the U.S. immigration system.

microsoft.com/humanitarianrelief 

supportkind.org

 
10    Corporate Citizen ship @ Microsof t 2009

Supporting Local Communities

Investing in Innovative R&D

Since 1983, Microsoft and its employees have do-
nated more than US$3.4 billion in cash, services and 
software to communities around the world. Our R&D 
activities are distributed globally as part of an effort 
to engage with the brightest minds and support the 
growth of local expertise. Through monetary dona-
tions as well as contributions of software, IT training 
curricula, technology expertise and volunteer hours, 
Microsoft and its employees directly support more 
than 16,000 programs serving communities world-
wide. In the 2008 fiscal year, these contributions of 
cash and in-kind grants totaled nearly US$500 million.
In the United States, Microsoft Volunteer Connec-

tion helps employees to find service opportunities 
that match their interests and skills. Microsoft pro-
vides a matching grant of US$17 per volunteer hour 
to the eligible organizations that our U.S. employees 
serve. Employees in other countries receive three days 
of paid leave each year to volunteer at their organiza-
tion of choice.

We also work with NGOs such as NPower in the 

United States and TechSoup worldwide to deliver 
software and technical guidance to help nonprofit 
organizations increase their capacity to serve clients 
through technology. In addition, the Microsoft Au-
thorized Refurbisher program helps NGOs channel 
used but functional computers to eligible nonprofits, 
community centers and academic institutions that 
work with underserved clients.

microsoft.com/supportingcommunity

Microsoft’s global research and development (R&D) 
investments underscore our long-term commitment 
to innovation. Our R&D activities are distributed glob-
ally as part of an effort to engage with the brightest 
minds and support the growth of local expertise. 
More than 32,000 employees across the company—
over a third of our global workforce—are dedicated 
to research and development; in fiscal year 2008, we 
invested more than US$8 billion in R&D.

In addition, our six Microsoft Research labs in 
the U.S., Europe and Asia employ more than 800 

Microsoft Web Site Empowers NGOs 

NGO Connection is Microsoft’s one-stop resource 
for eligible nonprofit organizations worldwide to 
access free and discounted software and low-
cost computers and hardware. NGO Connection 
also includes discussion forums and resources to 
access software support, technology training and 
certification materials. Microsoft also hosts NGO 
Connection Days around the world where orga-
nizations can share best practices and learn how 
technology can help them achieve their goals.

           microsoft.com/ngo

Nasa Koski and Brian Bain.

Tragedy Inspires Employee 
to Help Rescue Others

In the fall of 2007, Microsoft employee Nasa 
Koski received the terrible news that a close 
friend was aboard a small plane that had 
disappeared near Mount Rainier in southwest 
Washington. When her worst fears were real-
ized, Nasa knew what she had to do. She and 
her husband, Brian Bain, who also works at 
Microsoft, became King County Search and 
Rescue volunteers. They have since devoted 
hundreds of hours to helping people in 
danger. The couple is among thousands of 
Microsoft employees who contribute to their 
community as volunteers.

microsoft.com/employeevolunteers

 
11

researchers, including some of the world’s fin-
est computer scientists, sociologists, psychologists, 
mathematicians, physicists and engineers. Working 
across more than 55 areas of research—from software 
and hardware development, networking and machine 
learning to security, knowledge management and 
human-computer interaction—our research teams 
are helping to define and advance the computing 
experience for millions of people. As part of these 
efforts, Microsoft works with researchers and universi-
ties around the world on projects that are helping to 
support the development of local ICT expertise.

The results of our R&D commitment are embodied 
in products that are designed to increase productivity, 
empower individuals, and spur economic growth and 
social advancement.

research.microsoft.com/en-us

Guidelines Respect Privacy 
in Cybercrime Investigations

In the course of working with law enforce-
ment agencies to fight cybercrime, Microsoft 
and other Internet service providers (ISPs) 
must take into account the potential impact 
on privacy, as well as other implications, of 
sharing data about customers’ online activi-
ties. As a partner in the Council of Europe 
(COE) Project on Cybercrime, we have 
contributed to a set of voluntary guide-
lines for cooperation between ISPs and law 
enforcement investigators. These include 
a call for all parties to “promote a culture 
of cooperation” through regular training 
and sharing of practices, and to protect the 
fundamental rights of citizens in accordance 
with European and international human 
rights standards.

microsoft.com/internetfreedoms

Advancing Privacy, Internet Safety and Security

As people depend more on technology and the Web 
to be successful, Microsoft is committed to helping 
protect customers’ personal information and shield-
ing their computers from viruses and spyware. We 
recognize the challenges that organizations face 
in managing the growing volume of personal and 
confidential data. And we understand that parents 
are concerned about protecting their children from 
exposure to inappropriate content and potentially 
troubling interactions on the Web.

Microsoft works closely with other industry lead-

ers, governments, law enforcement agencies and 
communities worldwide on legislation and programs 
to address these issues. And we work continuously to 
develop technologies that help safeguard users’ per-
sonal information and strengthen networks against 
intrusions. 

Within our own company, we have established 
strong policies to help protect the privacy of personal 
data that we collect from customers, particularly 
in connection with online advertising and search 
results. We also advocate for more effective privacy 
legislation, contribute to numerous government and 
industry forums on security and privacy issues, and 
collaborate with law enforcement agencies in com-
bating cybercrime.

microsoft.com/securityprivacy

Microsoft researchers at work.

12    Corporate Citizen ship @ Microsof t 2009

products work more effectively together. For example, 
the Windows Vista operating system supports thou-
sands of applications and hardware devices from other 
vendors. We also collaborate with customers, partners 
and competitors—including open source software 
companies—through our Interop Vendor Alliance to 
solve shared challenges.

microsoft.com/interop

Global Community Promotes Innovation 

Microsoft helped establish Voices for Innovation 
(VFI) as a global community in which Microsoft 
partners, technology professionals, business lead-
ers and academics can learn about and work 
together on public policy issues and challenges 
related to technology. VFI members advocate for 
public policies that promote innovation, economic 
development and choice. In addition, members 
promote the positive impact of small and mid-
sized enterprises in local and global economies.

           voicesforinnovation.org

Protecting Intellectual Property  
and New Innovations

Our commitment to innovation and responsible 
leadership includes support for incentive systems that 
promote intellectual property (IP)—inventive and 
creative works ranging from software to literature. The 
incentives at the basis of IP enable innovators to bring 
their creations to market, encourage investment in lo-
cal economies and help emerging countries compete 
globally.

We also provide opportunities for companies to 

license IP from Microsoft as a component of their 
unique products and services, which can lead to 
greater choice in the market as well as a larger base 
of innovative businesses that can generate jobs and 
economic growth. For example, Microsoft’s IP Ventures 
program spins out and licenses Microsoft Research 
technology to entrepreneurs and companies in order 
to foster innovation and new product development.

microsoft.com/intellectualproperty

Interoperability: Enabling Technologies  
to Work Better Together

Given the central and growing role that technology 
plays in connecting people, businesses and gov-
ernments around the world, helping different ICT 
systems to work together is vital. We work closely 
with customers and partners to understand their 
technical interoperability needs, and we work with 
other technology companies to make our respective 

2008 Imagine Cup winners, Paris.

Student Competition Sparks  
World-Changing Ideas

Expanding the potential of computers to help 
solve real-world challenges is the objective 
behind Imagine Cup, Microsoft’s annual 
technology competition for students around 
the world. In 2008, the Imagine Cup contest 
invited young innovators to “imagine a world 
where technology enables a sustainable envi-
ronment” as the inspiration for their contest 
entries.

Team SOAK of Australia—university 
students David Burela, Dimaz Pramudya, Ed 
Hooper and Long Zheng—won first place in 
Imagine Cup’s worldwide Software Design 
finals for creating an integrated hardware and 
software platform that could help farmers 
conserve water as they irrigate their fields. 
The Victorian Farmers Federation is among 
those interested in helping the students 
commercialize SOAK, which stands for Smart 
Operational Agriculture toolkit.

microsoft.com/imaginecup

13

“

There is so much  
more work to  
do to address  
social, economic  
and educational  
challenges in  
the global  
“
community.

Looking Ahead

Just as success in business requires constantly reinventing and rethink-

ing strategies, our work as a corporate citizen has matured over the 

last decade and will continue to evolve in the years ahead.

One thing that won’t change, however, is our long-term commit-

ment to using our technologies, our business expertise, and the pas-

sion and goodwill of our employees to help make the world a better 

place. We say this knowing that for all that Microsoft and our partners 

have accomplished thus far, there is so much more work to do to address social, economic 

and educational challenges in the global community.

Led by our employees and inspired by our global partners and the work of other indus-

try leaders, we aim to take our corporate citizenship commitment even further in the years 

to come.

Pamela S. Passman
Corporate Vice President
Global Corporate Affairs
Microsoft Corporation

More information about Microsoft’s citizenship 
programs and investments worldwide can be 
found at www.microsoft.com/citizenship. We 
also encourage you to e-mail comments and 
questions to us at mcitizen@microsoft.com.

Part No. 098-110929

This brochure was printed with soy-based inks on 100% recycled paper manufactured with electricity offset 
with Green-e certified renewable energy certificates. Designated Ancient Forest Friendly and FSC certified.

© 2009 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. This document is for informational purposes only.  
MICROSOFT MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, AS TO THE INFORMATION IN THIS 
DOCUMENT. Microsoft, BizSpark, MultiPoint, SharePoint, Windows and Windows Vista are either trademarks or 
registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. The names of actual 
companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.

Some images on the front and back covers and pages 1, 3, 5 and 6 by Getty Images.

