Microsoft® 
2010  
Citizenship  
Report

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

 Contents

Introduction

1
1

Education

l

y
g
o
o
n
h
c
e
T
g
n
d
n
e
t
x
E

i

Jobs & Innovation

Nonprofits

Humanitarian Response

8
2

Our People

Environmental Sustainability

Responsible Sourcing

l

y
b
i
s
n
o
p
s
e
R
g
n
i
t
a
r
e
p
O

Online Privacy and Safety
Governance & Compliance

Public Policy & Advocacy

About This Report

As a part of our Microsoft Unlimited Potential™ efforts, we are proud to support the Global Give Back 
Circle in Kenya. Pictured on the cover of this report are girls participating in the program, gaining IT skills to help them 
transition from high school to tertiary education and into employment. The program provides girls in Kenya with the resources, 
tools, and mentors they need to break the cycle of poverty and give back as global citizens.

2

3

14

17

21

25

30

38

44

46

53

59

64

 
 
 Introduction

3

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

A Letter from Steve Ballmer 
Our Chief Executive Officer

Microsoft has a long tradition of 
taking on tough challenges on a 
global scale. It started with our 
original vision of a computer on 
every desk and in every home.  
It continues with our current  
mission, which is to help people 
and businesses throughout the 
world realize their full potential. 

Today that mission is more important than ever. We operate in an increasingly connected 
world—one that is facing historic and persistent economic challenges as well as significant 
social and environmental ones. 

In the face of these challenges, though, I am genuinely excited about the potential for 
information technology to create jobs, increase productivity, and launch a new era of 
sustainable economic growth. That vision is shared by government and civic leaders I meet, 
who consistently identify technology innovation as key to unlocking new opportunities 
and advancing important social priorities—from health care and education to science and 
environmental sustainability. 

This Corporate Citizenship Report provides our assessment of how Microsoft is working to 
advance economic, social, and environmental progress, both where we are succeeding and 
where we have more work to do. This year we are publishing this report in tandem with 
our annual report for the first time. This reflects the interconnections between our Citizen-
ship work and our business. We see our Citizenship strategies and business strategies as 
complementary, creating shared value for Microsoft shareholders, employees, stakeholders, 
and society.

The report covers Microsoft Fiscal Year 2010, which I believe was an important inflection 
point for our Citizenship activities. In the middle of FY2010, we arrived at a resolution for a 
number of long-standing competition law issues with the European Commission. At about 
the same time, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) declared in court that Microsoft’s work 
on documenting various Windows protocols was substantially complete. This recognition 
by the DOJ of the accomplishments of our protocol documentation teams is an important 
step in our compliance with the consent decree that terminated the competition lawsuit 
brought against Microsoft in the late 1990s.

Also in FY2010, we made it clear that Microsoft is “all in” when it comes to our commitment 
to cloud computing, which is Internet-based computing enabled through services such 
as Windows® Azure™, Microsoft® SQL Azure™, Windows®, Microsoft® Office Web Apps, 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

4

Bing™, Xbox LIVE®, and Windows Live®. This has important implications for our Citizenship 
work. Cloud computing offers new economic opportunities, enables small businesses and 
nonprofits to quickly scale innovative solutions to important challenges, and helps govern-
ments become more efficient and responsive. But with the cloud come new responsibili-
ties. The world needs a safe and open cloud, so we are investing significant resources to 
ensure widespread access to the benefits of the cloud, while addressing privacy, safety, and 
security concerns. 

In a time of transformative change, Microsoft remains committed to our long-standing 
work to extend access to the benefits of technology more broadly. Launched in 2007, Mi-
crosoft Unlimited Potential continues to be our company-wide commitment to use technol-
ogy to help create opportunities and solve societal challenges. We are on track to achieve 
our Unlimited Potential short-term goal to provide access to technology to an additional 1 
billion people around the world by 2015. 

This past fiscal year was also one of the strongest years in company history for the range 
and quality of product advances that Microsoft delivered. From Windows® 7, Windows Live, 
Microsoft® Office 2010, Windows Server®, Microsoft® SQL Server®, and Microsoft® Visual 
Studio® to Bing, we are redefining how people communicate, socialize, save time, reduce 
costs, and get things done at home and in the office. This holiday season we’ll launch 
Kinect™ for Xbox 360®, Windows® phone 7, and Windows® Internet Explorer® 9. 

Finally, in addition to thinking about the effects of what we do as a business, we remain 
firmly committed to thinking about the effects of how we do business, with a strong com-
mitment to responsible business practices. As you’ll read in this report, these commitments 
include promoting the well-being of our employees, reducing our environmental footprint, 
creating shared value with our business partners and suppliers, and many others. 

We welcome your thoughts and suggestions and look forward to ongoing dialogue  
on how we can better harness the power of technology to continue to meet tomorrow’s 
challenges.

Sincerely,

Steven A. Ballmer
Chief Executive Officer

Microsoft Corporation

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

5

About

The Microsoft mission is to help 
people and businesses around 
the world realize their full po-
tential. We work to accomplish 
this mission through the devel-
opment of innovative products 
and services that help people 
harness the power, opportuni-
ties, and benefits of technology. 

The Microsoft business segments provide 
management with a comprehensive view of 
our key businesses. The segments enable 
the alignment of strategies and objectives 
across the development, sales, market-
ing, and services organizations, and they 
provide a framework for timely and rational 
allocation of resources within businesses. 
This structure also helps us ensure high 
product quality and foster innovation to 
meet the changing technology needs of our 
customers. 

About Our Business

Microsoft Corporation is headquartered 
in Redmond, Washington, and is publicly 
traded on the Nasdaq. In Fiscal Year 2010 
Microsoft employed about 89,000 people 
in more than 100 countries/regions and 
territories. In FY2010, our business was 
structured into the following five integrated 
operating segments:  

For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, 
Microsoft reported record revenues of 
$62.48 billion, a 7 percent increase from 
2009. Operating income was $24.10 billion, 
an 18 percent increase from 2009. Earnings 
per share were $2.10, an approximately 30 
percent increase from 2009. 

Revenue by Business Group

Windows &  
Windows Live  
Division

FY2010 revenue: 
 $18,491 million

Microsoft  
Business  
Division

FY2010 revenue: 
 $18,642 million

Includes Windows products for personal computers, as well as online 
software and services through Windows Live

Includes Microsoft Office products, Microsoft Dynamics®, and Unified 
Communications business solutions

Server  
& Tools

FY2010 revenue: 
 $14,866 million

Entertainment  
& Devices  
Division

FY2010 revenue: 
 $8,058 million

Includes server products and solutions such as  Microsoft Windows 
Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft® Silverlight®, and Microsoft 
Consulting Service

Includes Xbox video game system, with Zune® digital music and 
entertainment device, Microsoft Mediaroom®, Surface computing 
platform, and Windows Automotive

Online  
Services  
Division

FY2010 revenue: 
 $2,199 million

Includes online advertising platform and online information offerings 
such as Bing and the MSN® portals and channels

 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

6

Customer & Partner Experience 

The success of our company hinges on our 
ability to listen and respond to customer 
feedback about our products, programs, 
and services, and to increase customer 
satisfaction with all of our offerings. We 
continually engage with our customers and 
partners through third-party surveys and 
feedback mechanisms within our products, 
as well as through community-based web-
sites. The information we receive helps us 
understand how people experience Micro-
soft and how we can make that experience 
better. 

We take the feedback we receive through 
these channels seriously. Our customer and 
partner experience (CPE) strategy is spon-
sored by our chief operating officer and 
president of the Microsoft Business Division. 
Microsoft employees are held accountable 
for the ongoing success of CPE through 
annual objectives and performance evalua-
tions. Compensation for key groups of top 
executives is influenced by the net satisfac-
tion of Microsoft customers and partners. 

For more information or to provide feedback to Micro-
soft, visit the Microsoft Customer and Partner Experi-
ence website at http://www.microsoft.com/about/cpe. 

Revenue, Operating Income & Earnings 
per Share

S
N
O
I
L
L
I
M
N

I

S
L
A
T
O
T

$70,000

$60,000

$50,000

$40,000

$30,000

$20,000

$10,000

$60,420

$58,437

$62,484

$22,271

$20,363

$24,098

$3.00

$2.00

$1.00

$2.10

$1.87

$1.62

FY2008

FY2009

FY2010

FY2008 FY2009 FY2010

REVENUE & OPERATING INCOME

EARNINGS PER SHARE

REVENUE

OPERATING INCOME

Further details about our business in FY2010 are  
available in the Microsoft annual financial report, which 
you can view or download at http://www.microsoft.
com/investor/AnnualReports/default.aspx.

Learn more about Microsoft and our business model 
on the Microsoft Investor Relations site at http://www.
microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx.

 
 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

7

About Our  
Partnership Model

The Microsoft business model relies on a 
global network of more than 640,000 local 
business partners that develop, market, 
retail, and service our products. These 
partners are essential to the operation of 
our business, significantly extending our 
ability to reach and serve customers. They 
are also valuable to their own communi-
ties, generating local employment, innova-
tion, growth, and opportunities. The vast 
majority of Microsoft partners are small to 
medium-sized, locally owned companies 
that serve local clients. Such companies are 
often the backbone of their economies and 
are responsible for economic growth across 
all types of markets far beyond the informa-
tion technology (IT) sector.

A 2009 study by research firm International 
Data Corp (IDC) found that the software 
sector is making an especially significant 
contribution to the IT sector, which itself is 
helping stimulate economic recovery and 
job creation. Further, the study found that 
the community of Microsoft partners is at 
the heart of the global IT economy, em-
ploying up to 42 percent of all IT workers. 
According to the study, by the end of 2013, 
the worldwide IT industry will have created 
nearly 6 million new family-wage jobs—an 
annual rate of growth of 3 percent, almost 
triple the rate of growth of other sectors of 
the overall economy.  

Microsoft

Microsoft 
Partners
Community

Employees

Percentage of 
IT Workforce 
(Gobal)

89,000

0.25%

14.9 million *

42%

Revenues

$62.48 billion 
(FY2010)

$537 billion
(2009)

* 2009 IDC Report: This figure includes both the 
Microsoft community of partners and the IT 
professionals in IT-using organizations whose jobs 
depend on Microsoft products and services. 

Supporting the development of our part-
ners is good for their business, good for 
Microsoft, and good for the communities 
and economies that we both serve. We 
also encourage our partners to consider 
their own approach to corporate citizen-
ship. We have created an incentive for 
this by recognizing a Citizenship Partner 
of the Year as part of our annual Partner 
awards, honoring exceptional partners 
that have made a sustained commitment 
to their communities and that demon-
strate the impact of their work. Since we 
introduced the award in 2007, competi-
tion for it has increased greatly, repre-
senting the seriousness of our partners’ 
investment in this area. 

Microsoft 2010 Citizenship 
Partner of the Year:  
Computacion Olidata LTD

After a devastating earthquake hit Chile 
in February 2010, Computacion Olidata 
supported ChileConect@Chile to quickly 
restore public access to the Internet by 
using semi-permanent community technol-
ogy centers (CTCs). These CTCs connected 
earthquake victims with their loved ones 
through digitally equipped mobile contain-
ers that were placed in some of the com-
munities hit hardest by the earthquake. 

This initiative was carried out under the 
National Digital Literacy Program executed 
by the Rural Life Training Foundation (Fun-
dacion Vida Rural) and was supported by 
the Chilean government. Olidata, along wi   
th Microsoft and other local partners, has 
supported the technology skills training of 
more than 600,000 individuals since 2003. 

To view the 2009 IDC report go to http://www.micro-
soft.com/citizenshipreport” 

For more information on the Microsoft partnership 
model, visit the Microsoft Corporate Citizenship Jobs 
and Opportunity site at http://www.microsoft.com/
economicgrowth

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

8

holders—our employees, investors, custom-
ers, partners, and communities—to identify 
the issues and opportunities that are impor-
tant to them. We also regularly assess and 
prioritize issues that have the potential to 
affect our business and broader society. Our 
Citizenship and reporting strategies are also 
guided by internationally recognized priori-
ties and frameworks, such as those laid out 
in the United Nations Global Compact, the 
United Nations Millennium Development 
Goals, the Global Reporting Initiative, the 
Global Network Initiative, and the Carbon 
Disclosure Project. 

In FY2010, Microsoft focused on four pri-
mary interrelated and mutually reinforcing 
corporate citizenship strategies, which we 
have grouped into two main sections in this 
report:

Extending the Benefits  
of Technology 

Operating
Responsibly

• Address Societal Changes  

• Promote a Healthy Online Ecosystem

• Strengthen Economies 

• Operate Responsibly

For more information on Citizenship strategies at 
Microsoft, visit the Microsoft Corporate Citizenship site 
at http://www.microsoft.com/citizenship   

To view the Microsoft United nations Global Compact 
Communication on Progress and the Microsoft com-
mitment to the United Nations Millennium Develop-
ment Goals go to http://www.microsoft.com/citizen-
shipreport  

Microsoft Corporate  
Citizenship Approach

The Microsoft Corporate Citizenship goals 
and strategy are based on our company 
mission to enable people and businesses 
throughout the world to realize their full 
potential. Our Citizenship approach focuses 
on activities that create value for both our 
business and society. Our commitments 
include the way we operate our company, 
our efforts to create opportunities through 
our technology offerings, the application of 
our research and development investments, 
and the power of our partnerships. 

We have long partnered with govern-
ments, community organizations, and other 
businesses around the world to help solve 
some of the world’s most pressing societal 
challenges. Our contributions include the 
expertise, knowledge, and involvement of 
our employees, as well as the financial and 
software resources of our company. 

Microsoft manages Citizenship activities 
the same way that we manage our other 
business priorities. Our Citizenship strategy 
and key performance indicators are set 
each year as part of our business planning 
across our subsidiaries, under the direction 
of our country-level Citizenship leaders. We 
conduct quarterly business reviews with the 
Citizenship leaders for each country, in ad-
dition to regional areas. Citizenship metrics 
are incorporated into an extensive mid-year 
and end-of-year executive review process. 
We have also created technology tools—in-
cluding an internal data aggregator called 
Collage and the externally facing Microsoft 
Local Impact Map—to measure and report 
our global citizenship activities and impact. 

Our Corporate  
Citizenship Strategies

Citizenship strategies at Microsoft focus 
on the issues that we and our stakeholders 
view as most relevant for our global busi-
ness. We regularly engage with our stake-

 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

9

Our Corporate  
Citizenship Structure

Corporate Citizenship is integrated across 
the Microsoft business groups, corporate 
functions, subsidiaries, and country-level 
operations. Citizenship impacts are consid-
ered in the development of new product, 
program, and service offerings. 

Microsoft’s Citizenship Organization

CORPORATE 
FUNCTIONS

bUSINESS 
GROUPS

CORPORATE 
CITIZENSHIP
TEAM

FIELD 
OFFICES

WINDOWS & WINDOWS LIVE
SERVER & TOOLS
ONLINE SERVICES
MICROSOFT bUSINESS
ENTERTAINMENT & DEVICES

HUMAN RESOURCES
LEGAL & CORPORATE AFFAIRS
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINAbILITY
FINANCE
CORPORATE MARKETING GROUP
GLObAL CORPORATE PROCUREMENT

FIELD OFFICE AND OPERATIONS IN 
MORE THAN 100 COUNTRIES, REGIONS, 
AND TERRITORIES WORLDWIDE

We have a dedicated Corporate Citizenship 
team to help facilitate this integration and 
support the work of colleagues across the 
company. This corporate team within our 
Legal and Corporate Affairs Department 
coordinates, guides, and supports business 
units, operational groups across Microsoft, 
and a global Citizenship community of 
field staff in more than 100 countries and 
regions who help implement the Microsoft 

Citizenship priorities within their local com-
munities. The team also serves as a re-
source to business groups as they consider 
how Citizenship is affected in the develop-
ment of new product, program, and service 
offerings.

Pamela Passman, Microsoft Corporate Vice 
President and Deputy General Counsel, 
Global Corporate Affairs, leads Corporate 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

10

Citizenship work at Microsoft. Ultimate 
oversight rests within the Microsoft Board 
of Directors Governance and Nominat-
ing Committee. That committee’s charter 
includes a commitment to “Annually review 
the Company’s policies and programs that 
relate to Corporate Citizenship, including 
environmental sustainability, the annual 
public policy agenda, and political activities 
and expenditures.” 

Outlook

At Microsoft, we regularly review our 
Corporate Citizenship strategy, focus, and 
performance to make sure that we are 
working on issues that meet the needs of 
our business and that matter most to our 
stakeholders. In FY2011, we plan a more 
significant review of our efforts to define the 
next generation of Corporate Citizenship 
activities at Microsoft. 

We launched our Citizenship initiative in 
2003 and significantly expanded it in 2007 
with the launch of Microsoft Unlimited 
Potential, which focuses on increasing 
opportunities and helping solve societal 
challenges in communities around the 
world. With our Unlimited Potential commit-
ments on track to be met in the next several 
years, the time is right to begin evaluating 
the next generation of our strategy, which 
will likely focus on expanding the impact of 
our products and services to address the 
world’s most significant societal challenges, 
such as education inequalities and sustain-
able economic growth.

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

11

Extending Technology

Broadening access to  
technology and technology 
skills is imperative in strength-
ening economies globally, 
unlocking the potential of  
individuals and communities, 
and finding solutions to some 
of today’s most pressing  
societal challenges. Microsoft is 
working to turn our technology 
expertise into an engine that 
drives global progress. 

The centerpiece of our mission to extend 
technology is Microsoft Unlimited Potential, 
a company-wide commitment to make 
technology more relevant, accessible, 
and affordable for all people everywhere. 
Through Unlimited Potential, we create new 
business models, partnerships, programs, 
and technology innovations to help create 
opportunities, jobs, and innovation and to 
help solve major societal challenges. 

Our Unlimited Potential goal is to provide
an additional 1 billion people with access to
the benefits of technology by 2015. Our 
efforts to extend technology are all part of 
this commitment. 

One of the most direct ways that we can 
extend the benefits of technology is by 
giving of ourselves and our resources. This 
chart shows our giving over time, most of 
which goes toward using technology for 
education, workforce development, and 
capacity building.

Microsoft Giving GLOBAL

CASH*

                    $99 MILLION

SOFTWARE

                                                                         $504 MILLION

TOTAL

                                                                                       $603 MILLION

FY2010

GIVING AS A PERCENTAGE   
OF PRE-TAX PROFITS

3.2%

FY2009

CASH*

                        $113 MILLION

SOFTWARE

                                                       $403.9 MILLION

TOTAL

                                                                              $516.9 MILLION

GIVING AS A PERCENTAGE   
OF PRE-TAX PROFITS

2.61%

FY2008

CASH*

                          $122 MILLION

SOFTWARE

                                                    $376 MILLION

TOTAL

                                                                             $498 MILLION

GIVING AS A PERCENTAGE   
OF PRE-TAX PROFITS

2.09%

FY2007

CASH*

                       $110.3 MILLION

SOFTWARE

                                     $322..3 MILLION

TOTAL

                                                            $432.6 MILLION

GIVING AS A PERCENTAGE   
OF PRE-TAX PROFITS

2.15%

*Includes Microsoft match to employee giving

 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

12

Extending  
Technology Goals

This chart presents a snapshot of our most 
significant goals to extend technology to 
address societal challenges and strengthen 
economies; it also shows our progress 
against these goals last fiscal year. Further 
information on these and other goals and 
programs is available in the remainder of 
this section. 

Strategy: Address Societal Challenges

Our Commitments

Key Areas of Progress in FY2010

Education 
Use technology to extend access to 
education

Expanded the Innovative Schools Program as a part of our Partners in Learning efforts to include 12 Mentor 
schools, 30 new Pathfinder schools, and 2,500 Breadth schools

Reached 4 million people through Shape the Future, a program through which Microsoft partners with gov-
ernments to develop technology solutions to foster economic growth through education

Nonprofit Effectiveness
Enhance nonprofit effectiveness and 
capacity through technology

Humanitarian Needs and Disaster 
Response 
Deploy technology to aid in disaster 
response

Accessibility 
Make technology accessible to  
everyone, regardless of age or ability

Donated $504 million in software to almost 43,700 organizations worldwide

Hosted 107 NGO Connection Days globally, training more than 9,200 professionals from more than 6,300 
nonprofits in effective use of technology

Developed new tools to help respond to disasters. Examples include the H1N1 Online Self-Assessment Tool, which 
reached almost 300,000 people, and the first Haitian Creole machine translation system to aid earthquake relief, 
providing about 250,000 translations a month

Included new accessibility features such as image magnification for the visually impaired in newly released prod-
ucts, including Windows 7, Office 2010, and Internet Explorer 8 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

13

Strategy: Strengthen Economies

Our Commitments

Key Areas of Progress in FY2010

Jobs & Economic Impact 
Create new jobs and economic  
opportunities

Supported 14.9 million jobs worldwide through our community of partners and Microsoft-related IT professionals

With our partners, generated $537 billion in revenue and $179 billion in new investment in local communities

Generated an average of $8.70 for our partners for every dollar of Microsoft revenue

Workforce Development
Retrain workers and the unemployed 
with workforce technology skills

Provided technology training to more than 170 million people in more than 100 countries/regions since 2003, and 
more than 29 million people in FY2010

Provided more than 880,000 technology training vouchers to individuals in more than 30 states in need of tech-
nology skills to grow their careers or find new jobs

Innovation
Support and invest in innovation, 
research, and development

Invested $8.7 billion in R&D, equivalent to 14 precent of revenue

Opened 11 new Microsoft Innovation Centers, bringing the total worldwide to 100; reached 250,000 people and 
trained 130,000 by the end of FY2010

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

 Extending Technology

14

Technology for Education

As part of our Microsoft Unlim-
ited Potential efforts, Microsoft 
is using technology to create 
access to quality education for 
everyone, everywhere—which 
we see as a fundamental hu-
man right. By educating people 
to use, create, and value tech-
nology, we are empower-
ing them to participate in the 
global economy and contribute 
to their local communities. We 
are also creating a future work-
force and customer base for 
our industry. 

•  Improve the economic and operational ef-

ficiencies of education systems.

We also partner with and support govern-
ments, schools, and parents. In FY2010 we 
increased our focus on educators.

Microsoft products, research, and programs 
all contribute to our education commit-
ment. Cross-company efforts are guided by 
the Vice President of Microsoft Education 
and a multidisciplinary Education Advisory 
Council. 

Commitments & 
Progress

In FY2010 Microsoft achieved progress 
across our many programs and products 
designed to further our Unlimited Potential 
focus on education. The following is a snap-
shot of some of the work that took place 
last fiscal year. 

Students—regardless of their location and 
socioeconomic status—are our focus. With 
this focus, we build software and create 
programs to: 

•  Foster communication and collaboration 
among students, teachers, parents, and 
employers. 

•  Create opportunities to explore and share 

insight. 

 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

15

Microsoft Unlimited Potential: Education

  Program Description

Partners in Learning

• Helps schools gain better access to technology

• Fosters innovative approaches to learning    
  and teacher development

• Provides education leaders with the tools to 
  envision and implement change

We Said
We Would

We Have

Reach 250 million students 
and teachers across 115 
countries/regions through 
Partners in Learning by 
2013 (2003 goal)

Reached nearly 200 million students and teachers in 114 countries/
regions since the program launched in 2003

Expanded the Innovative Schools Program to include 12 Mentor 
schools, 30 new Pathfinder schools, and 2,500 Breadth schools

Deployed the Partners in Learning Network to 39 countries/regions, 
making it one of the largest social networks for educators

Introduced Innovative Teaching and Learning (ITL) research to 
understand the factors that transform teaching practices and outcomes

Imagine Cup
Global student technology competition that in-
spires young people to apply technology to solve 
the world’s toughest problems

Grow the program to 
register 300,000 student 
competitors by 2010

Registered more than 325,000 students from more than 100 coun-
tries/regions in FY2010

Reached more than 1 million students in the past five years alone

Microsoft DreamSpark®
Provides free student access to Microsoft pro-
fessional design and development software

Give students access  
to software

Expanded the program to 135 countries/regions

Students to Business
Connects students with Microsoft partner com-
panies, providing skills training, industry insight, 
and job placement services

Increase the number of 
students globally that 
benefit from the Students 
to Business program

Trained 233,000 students in FY2010, 15,000 of whom have applied 
for jobs

Registered more than 3,000 companies this past fiscal year

Local Language Program
Provides people with native language interfaces 
that broaden the avenues to technology, reverse 
local “brain drain,” and preserve local culture

Reduce the language  
barrier to technology

Translated Microsoft software into nearly 100 languages

Used developers around the world, including localization hubs in the 
United States, Ireland, India, China, and Japan

Shape the Future 
Works with governments to develop smart, 
sustainable, and inclusive technology solutions 
for their citizens that are focused on economic 
growth through education

Work with governments 
to reach 3 million citizens 
before the end of FY2010 
to help them access tech-
nology

Advocating for Quality STEM Education
Promotes science, technology, engineering, and 
math education

Actively support policies 
and programs to improve 
academic performance 
and participation in STEM 
disciplines

Reached more than 4 million citizens globally, through more than 150 
public/private partnerships, providing them with relevant and afford-
able access to education technologies

Joined Change the Equation, a joint effort of the Obama administra-
tion and corporate CEOs to improve STEM education in the United 
States

Cofounded the Washington State STEM Center to catalyze innova-
tion in the K–12 system, increase teacher effectiveness and student 
learning,  and increase the number of students graduating ready for 
college and work

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

more than 10,000 institutions and 11 million 
students worldwide.

16

For more information on Microsoft and education, 
visit the Microsoft Education website at http://www.
microsoft.com/education. 

Outlook

While students remain central to our goals, 
in FY2010 we instituted a stronger focus on 
teachers, working to help improve teacher 
quality and to enable teachers to more ef-
fectively use technology in the classroom. In 
FY2011, we will continue this focus, expand-
ing the virtual and physical communities 
of practitioners through the Partners in 
Learning Network and regional/worldwide 
Innovative Education Forum events. We will 
also work to extend Innovating Teaching 
and Learning research into more  
geographies. 

Overall, we believe that there will be three 
main trends that affect education globally in 
FY2011: 

•  Mobile
•  Games in learning
•  Assessment-based teaching

In FY2010 we saw increased use of new 
technologies such as Kodu, Windows 7, 
Windows Movie Maker, and MultiPoint—as 
well cloud-based services like Live@edu 
and the Windows Azure platform—among 
students and educators. In FY2011, we 
believe hosted solutions, learning analyt-
ics, and mobile and games-based learning 
will become more prevalent. Most of these 
solutions share the benefit of having a lower 
barrier to entry for schools, although as 
with any innovation, change management, 
integration, and ensuring pedagogical rel-
evance will be critical success factors.

Technology  
Innovations

Microsoft products, tools, and services also 
broaden access and engagement of stu-
dents and are a part of our strategy. FY2010 
included the releases of Windows 7 and 
Microsoft Office 2010, both of which have 
benefits for students. Additional product 
advances included:

•  Windows® MultiPoint® Server 2010: 

Enables multiple students to connect to a 
single computer with their own monitor, key-
board, and mouse through USB or a video 
card. MultiPoint Server is designed for use 
in classrooms, libraries, and other learning 
environments to: 

•  Increase the number of students who 

can access technology by decreasing the 
hardware costs 

•  Enable shared learning experiences 

•  Allow students to share information, but 

work at their own pace 

•  Microsoft® Mouse Mischief™: An en-

gagement-enhancing, free product (as part 
of the MultiPoint family of products) that 
uses multiple choice, matching, and drawing 
questions. Students answer by using their 
own computer mouse on a shared screen in 
a classroom setting.  

•  Kodu™ Game Lab: A free visual program-
ming language that enables students to 
design, program, and test their own games 
and virtual worlds, facilitating critical thinking 
through games. An Australian pilot showed 
that Kodu motivated students and improved 
critical thinking, creativity, and collaboration. 

•  Live@edu: Provides a familiar and reliable 
Microsoft® Office Outlook® Web App that 
can be cobranded with a school’s name and 
logo. It helps build lifelong ties between stu-
dents and their educational institution. Live@
edu is more than just email—it includes 
access to calendars, document sharing, 
instant messaging, video chat, mobile email, 
and more. Live@edu has been adopted by 

 Extending Technology

17

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

and the benefits it brings communities—
because we require strong technology-
based economies to sustain our business. 

Technology for Jobs, Workforce 
Development & Innovation
Approach 
Technology is a powerful en-
gine of economic growth and 
competitiveness. By enabling 
innovation, technology can 
create new companies, indus-
tries, opportunities, and jobs. In 
addition to its societal benefits, 
technology-led innovation is 
a fundamental driver of Mi-
crosoft business. Therefore we 
look to foster innovation inside 
and outside our business, as 
well as to support technology-
related jobs and opportunities, 
through:

•  Microsoft innovation and R&D: Micro-
soft was founded on innovation, and we 
continue to rely on innovation to grow 
and strengthen our business. As such, Mi-
crosoft is investing in Research (MSR) and 
a variety of product development projects 
that give us both a competitive advantage 
and help solve some of the world’s big-
gest challenges.  

•  Microsoft Unlimited Potential: Through 
Microsoft Unlimited Potential, we invest in 
programs, products, and partnerships that 
catalyze the creation of jobs, business op-
portunities, and innovation. We also train 
people in jobs skills that are needed inside 
and outside the technology sector. Em-
ployment is increasingly contingent upon 
proficiency in technology skills; supporting 
workforce skills development is good for 
society and good for our business. 

The Microsoft jobs and workforce de-
velopment initiatives are managed by 
the Community Affairs and Citizenship 
teams, which report to the Corporate 
Vice President, Global Corporate Affairs. 
Innovation is a cross-company endeavor, 
with specific programs run by individual 
business groups and Microsoft Research. 

•  Our business and community of partners: 
The daily workings of our partner-based 
business model create nearly 15 million 
family-wage information technology (IT) 
jobs in communities around the world. That 
accounts for 42 percent of the global IT 
workforce. We work to support this model—

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

18

Commitments &
Progress

Our Business and Community  
of Partners

To understand and maximize our impact in 
stimulating the global technology economy, 
Microsoft conducted a study in partnership 
with International Data Corp (IDC). Released 
in October 2009, the findings showed that 
the IT industry, and Microsoft specifically, 
will be a key driver of economic recovery 
and job creation over the next few years. 

IDC Study Findings Highlights

Job Creation

The IT industry will create nearly 6 million new 
jobs by the end of 2013. IT employment will 
grow by 3 percent a year in that period—more 
than three times faster than the growth of total 
employment.

New Companies

About 75,000 new IT companies will be formed 
globally between 2009 and 2013. More than 40 
percent of these new companies will be in the 
Asia Pacific region. 

Partner Revenue

For every dollar that Microsoft makes in a com-
munity, Microsoft partners make an average of 
$8.70.

Local Investment

Microsoft partners generate $537 billion in rev-
enues for themselves, fueling their businesses 
and economic growth and employment in their 
communities.

For more information about the findings of the IDC 
study, visit the Microsoft Corporate Citizenship website 
at http://www.microsoft.com/economicgrowth

Microsoft Innovation 
& R&D

Microsoft invests heavily in research and 
development to bolster our pipeline of new 
products and to uncover new solutions to 

global challenges. In FY2010 we invested 
$8.7 billion (about 14 percent of revenues) 
on research and development, which is 
conducted by Microsoft Research (MSR) 
and within product development groups. 
In FY2010 we increasingly adopted a global 
approach to innovation. We believe that this 
will help us remain competitive in local mar-
kets and attract top global talent. Microsoft 
conducts research and development activi-
ties in 50 locations around the world. While 
most R&D employees are located in the 
United States, significant R&D activities are 
conducted in Canada, China, Denmark, the 
United Kingdom, India, Ireland, and Israel. 

Some advancements made in FY2010:

•  Atlantic Rainforest Sensor Net: Microsoft 
Research, in collaboration with research-
ers from Johns Hopkins University and the 
Universidade de São Paulo, has deployed a 
network of sensors to study the Serra do Mar 
rainforest in Brazil, with the goal of gain-
ing understanding of the complex systems 
of rainforests and their effect on climate 
change. 

•  WorldWide Telescope | Mars and  

Terapixel: WorldWide Telescope, an im-
mersive Internet environment from Microsoft 
Research that enables seamless panning and 
zooming across the entirety of Earth’s night 
sky, now features unprecedented detail and 
clarity of images from Mars. The Terapixel 
project, available on WorldWide Telescope 
and on Bing Maps, created the largest, 
clearest image—a terapixel in size—ever 
produced of the night sky. 

•  Greening Corporate Networks: In corpo-
rate networks, most desktop computers are 
always on, even when they are not in use for 
extended periods. To address this wasteful-
ness, Microsoft Research has designed a 
system that uses a “sleep server” to maintain 
the network presence of a sleeping machine 
and seamlessly awaken it on remote access. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

19

Microsoft Unlimited 
Potential

Microsoft Unlimited Potential played an im-
portant role in FY2010 in spurring innova-
tion and enhancing workforce development 
and job readiness. 

One of the primary ways that Microsoft 
Unlimited Potential promotes innovation 
is through Microsoft Innovation Centers. 
These hubs around the world offer students, 
entrepreneurs, academic researchers, and IT 
professionals the resources and training that 
they need to learn and innovate for their 
communities and regions. Use of Microsoft 

Innovation Centers continued to grow in 
FY2010. 

Through Unlimited Potential, Microsoft also 
put a significant focus on workforce devel-
opment in FY2010. Unemployment con-
tinued to be a primary concern for many 
nations in FY2010 and will likely continue 
to be in FY2011. To address this issue, we 
enhanced our workforce development ef-
forts, developing nationally based programs 
to retrain unemployed job seekers and help 
current workers sharpen their technology 
skills. These included Elevate America, Brit-
ain Works, On My Way in Australia, Russia 
Your Course, and Elevemos Mexico. 

Microsoft Unlimited Potential: Jobs, Workforce Development & Innovation

  Program Description

We Said We Would

We Have

Microsoft  
Innovation Centers
Hubs that offer courses and resources in 
technology and business skills for entre-
preneurs, IT professionals, and students

Microsoft® BizSpark™
Provides startups with access to software 
to help grow their businesses

Community  
Technology Skills  
Program (CTSP)
Supports technology training ranging 
from basic computer skills to advanced 
business applications

Elevate America
Elevate America Provides technology skills 
training and resources to help people in 
the United States find employment

Double Microsoft Innovation 
Centers’ capacity so they can 
reach 1 million people by 2012

Reached 250,000 people and trained 
130,000. In FY2011, our goal is to reach an 
additional 250,000 and train 150,000.

Increase the number of people 
reached

Reached approximately 40,000 people. In 
FY2011, our goal is to reach 60,000. 

Reach more than 20 million 
people globally per year

Surpassed our goal and reached more than 
170 million people through CTSP participa-
tion since 2003—over 29 million in FY2010. In 
FY2011, our goal is to reach 23 million people 
through CTSP.

Reach 2 million people with tech-
nology skills training by 2012

Offered more than 880,000 free technol-
ogy training and certification vouchers to 
equip individuals with the technology skills 
that they need to grow their careers and find 
new jobs

Britain Works
Equips British workers and job seekers 
with the technology skills that they need 
to grow their careers or find a new job

Reach 500,000 people with tech-
nology training by 2012

Launched the program in FY2010 and 
partnered with three organizations that will 
help provide training

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

20

Outlook

In FY2011, as the global economy continues 
to recover, Microsoft will keep a sharp focus 
on jobs and workforce development. Over 
the next two years, through our various 
technology skills training programs, we an-
ticipate reaching 50 million people, helping 
them develop the skills that they need to 
find work or advance their careers. 

In terms of research and innovation, Micro-
soft will work with our partners, particularly 
in the area of cloud computing, to uncover 
its potential for individuals and economies 
worldwide. Recent research indicates that 
during the next few years, cloud computing 
and its resulting innovations will help lead 
to the formation of more than 100,000 new 
companies in all sectors of the economy, 
creating 1 million new jobs inside and 
outside the IT industry and pumping $800 
billion in new revenues into local economies 
around the world.

 Extending Technology

21

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Technology for Nonprofits

A key part of our work through 
Unlimited Potential is equipping 
nonprofit organizations with 
technology and technology 
skills to enable them to better 
achieve their missions. Micro-
soft has worked with thousands 
of nonprofits around the world, 
using our expertise and our 
resources to help them operate 
more efficiently, build capac-
ity, and deliver more services 
through the use of technology. 

3. Technology innovation: We work with 

select nonprofit partners to develop and pilot 
innovative ways to adapt technology for non-
profit use, and we create models that can be 
replicated by others in the nonprofit sector.  

Microsoft implemented this strategy in 
FY2010 at our corporate headquarters and 
our field offices. We will continue to work 
with this strategy in FY2011. 

Our efforts to bring IT to the nonprofit sec-
tor are led by the Microsoft Senior Director 
for Community Affairs, who reports to our 
Corporate Vice President, Global Corporate 
Affairs.

Title

In FY2010, Microsoft refocused its work in 
this area into a formalized strategy with 
three elements:

Boys & Girls Clubs of America

Boys & Girls Clubs of America has been 
one of our signature partners for more than 
10 years. Key elements of our partnership 
include: 

•  Club Tech: A program that provides technol-
ogy access and skills training to kids and pro-
grammatic support and training for Club staff. 
The more than 3,600 Club Tech locations 
serve 1 million kids each year. Microsoft has 
donated more than $150 million in software 
and cash and trained more than 7,000 Club 
staff since the program launched.  

1. Technology adoption: We work to make 
technology relevant, affordable, and acces-
sible to the nonprofit sector through software 
donations, technology trainings, and design-
ing or adapting products to solve challenges 
that are unique to nonprofits. 

•  Centers of Excellence: A new program 
launched in FY2010 that creates learning 
spaces equipped with the latest technology 
to foster critical thinking and problem solving 
skills. Five Centers of Excellence were opened 
in FY2010, and more are planned for FY2011. 

2. Technology services: We connect nonprof-
its with information technology (IT) services, 
training, and support to help them build 
capacity so that they have greater reach and 
effectiveness in their missions.  

Commitments & 
Progress

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

22

Microsoft Unlimited Potential: Nonprofit Effectiveness

We Said We Would

We Have

Increase nonprofit 
technology access 
and understanding

Connect nonprofits 
to relevant technol-
ogy services to 
build capacity

Pilot and scale  
innovative ways for 
nonprofits to use 
technology

Donated $504 million (fair market value) in software to 43,650 organizations worldwide

Launched Microsoft Dynamics CRM for Nonprofits, a custom tool to help nonprofits effectively man-
age data about their donors, volunteers, and members

Hosted webinars to help nearly 600 nonprofit professionals understand cloud computing and how to 
use certain Microsoft products

Held more than 100 NGO Connection Days around the world, training more than 9,200 nonprofit 
professionals from more than 6,300 organizations on technology solutions for nonprofits, with the help of 
700 Microsoft volunteers

Supported the NPower Network in delivering IT services, support, and training to more than 1,400 
nonprofits

Partnered with Ashoka to demonstrate how mobile technology can combat tuberculosis in India

Worked with two NetHope members to do early testing of a product that enables organizations to 
more easily compile important data from remote field workers by using mobile phones

Worked with public radio station KEXP to move their media infrastructure to the cloud, which will 
allow for richer interaction with their listeners and new and innovative ways to build and strengthen their 
audience

Supported the website redesign and e-commerce platform for TechSoup.org to help scale their 
mission of helping every nonprofit access technology resources

$$

$

$504 Million in software to 43,650 organizations 
worldwide

Software Donated by Region

23

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

NORTH AMERICA
$314,367,220

62%

EUROPE
$104,621,779

21%

MEA
$6,683,881

1.5%

LATIN AMERICA
$27,427,007

5.5%

TOTAL VALUE OF 
SOFTWARE DONATED:
$504,187,431

NGO Connection Days

NUMBER OF EVENTS

APAC 

      25 

Europe

      25

MEA 

     22 

LATAM 

       29 

N. America

TOTAL 

6
2,308

NUMBER OF ATTENDEES

APAC
$51,087,544

10%

NUMBER OF NGOS

APAC 

                 1,570 

Europe

               1,463

MEA 

         943 

LATAM 

                       1,939 

N. America

TOTAL 

395
2,308

APAC
2,308

Europe
1,885

MEA
1,661
9,237

L
A
T
O
T

LATAM
2,751

N. America
632

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

24

Outlook

In FY2010 Microsoft began to integrate 
information on cloud-based solutions into 
our nonprofit trainings. This will continue 
to be a significant focus for FY2011. We 
see cloud solutions as a way to give even 
small nonprofits the ability to use the same 
technology that the world’s most sophisti-
cated enterprises use, and we have hardly 
begun to scratch the surface of what this 
could mean. Plans to increase nonprofit ac-
cess to cloud and related services in FY2011 
include: 

•  Delivering cloud offerings, such as Microsoft 
Business Productivity Online Standard Suite 
and Microsoft Dynamics CRM for Nonprofits, 
to enhance nonprofit operations.

•  Focusing on Bing Maps online mapping tool 
as a way for nonprofits to visualize and share 
information and better engage their com-
munities. 

•  Developing new nonprofit-targeted software 

tools and applications. 

•  Researching the potential of Microsoft Silver-
light, a multimedia development platform, to 
help nonprofits easily create interactive video 
experiences to share with their stakeholders. 

•  Exploring how new mobile technologies such 
as Tag (mobile barcodes that guide users 
to additional online information) can help 
nonprofits have increased reach among users 
of handheld smartphone devices.

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

 Extending Technology

25

Technology for Humanitarian  
Assistance & Disaster Response

Natural disasters strike all too 
often, affecting our communi-
ties and our employees around 
the world. Information and 
communications technology 
are critical in emergency and 
disaster response situations, 
and Microsoft is committed 
to using our unique resources 
and expertise to reduce the 
consequences of tragedies and 
to help communities become 
more resilient. 

•  Driving global donations and awareness 

through social media.

•  Coordinating the response with partners—
including nonprofits, intergovernmental 
organizations, governments, and other 
businesses—to apply technology solutions 
and subject-matter expertise to address key 
disaster response challenges.

Microsoft humanitarian assistance and 
disaster response efforts are overseen by 
our Senior Director of Disaster Response, 
who leads a core team. When a disaster 
occurs, the core team is supported by a 
broader cross-functional team at Microsoft 
to provide around-the-clock support to 
affected areas. 

Commitments & 
Progress

In the past year, natural disasters around 
the world have affected millions. Microsoft, 
our partners, and our employees provided 
support and assistance. At the corporate 
level, we coordinated responses to three 
major humanitarian emergencies, outlined 
in the table. At the local level, we were 
involved in many more. 

At the end of FY2009, the Microsoft Cor-
porate Disaster Response Team distributed 
a playbook to enable Microsoft subsidiar-
ies around the world to more effectively 
respond to disasters in their respective 
regions. The playbooks were piloted in 
FY2010 and were used by dozens of  

We offer a portfolio of solutions to aid 
disaster response and recovery efforts 
worldwide, supporting the public, nonprofit, 
and private sectors. The portfolio includes:

•  Providing information and communications 
technology and expertise to lead response 
organizations. 

•  Encouraging employee giving and  

volunteering.  

subsidiaries to support their regions in times 
of need. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

26

Technology for Humanitarian Needs & Disaster Response

Disaster

H1N1 Outbreak 
May to December 2009

Haiti Earthquake 
January 2010

Information &  
Communications  
Technology Support

In partnership with Emory 
University, creaated the 
H1N1 Online Self Assess-
ment Tool to help people 
determine whether they 
have the symptoms of 
H1N1 and what actions to 
take if they do

Provided guidance on 
technologies that enable 
individuals to work from 
home to reduce the spread 
of the disease 

Supported nonprofit  
responders with  
technology solutions

Developed a Haitian Creole 
translation system to help 
volunteers and organiza-
tions break the language 
barrier to helping survivors

Chile Earthquake 
February 2010

Helped customers and 
partners resume operations

Used Bing Maps to provide 
before and after imagery of 
the affected areas to help 
aid organizations focus 
their responses

Partnerships

Community Involvement

Worked with Harvard 
Medical and Mayo Clinic 
on MSN Health H1N1 
Information Center

Helped government and 
health organizations 
coordinate their response 
efforts and provide 
information to the public 
through technology 

Provided information to 
the public through multiple 
Microsoft communication 
channels, including the 
MSN Health H1N1  
Information Center,  
MSNBC, MSN Home,  
MSN Health, and Bing

Worked with organizations— 
including NetHope, the UN 
Office for the Coordination 
of Humanitarian Affairs, 
and the U.S. Department 
of Homeland Security—to 
facilitate information sharing 
and coordination

In FY2011, we are working 
with the Inter-American 
Development Bank and our 
technology partner Infu-
sion to develop the Haiti 
Integrated Government 
Platform, which will host 
information systems and 
recover databases that were 
lost in the earthquake.

Partnered with the Chilean 
government, Entel, Olidata, 
and Fundación Vida Rural 
to increase access to the In-
ternet in the affected areas

Donated $3.25 million in 
cash and in-kind contribu-
tions, more than $1 million 
of which was from Microsoft 
employees

Helped raise public support 
for aid through multiple Mi-
crosoft channels, including 
MSN, Bing, and Xbox LIVE

Communicated opportu-
nities to aid relief efforts 
through multiple Microsoft 
online properties

Microsoft employees in 
Chile volunteered, conduct-
ing food, clothing, and 
donation drives to help 
their neighbors

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

27

In FY2010 Microsoft also made a commit-
ment through the Clinton Global Initia-
tive to work with the UN Refugee Agency 
and other private-sector partners to bring 
technology to remote refugee camps. We 
completed development of 3 pilot centers, 
1 in Rwanda and 2 in Bangladesh, and we 
are working on 10 new centers in Georgia. 

Outlook

In FY2011, Microsoft is continuing to work 
with developers to find new ways to use 
mobile and cloud-based technologies to 
create innovative disaster response so-
lutions that streamline operations and 
increase the capacity and capabilities of 
response organizations. We are also work-
ing to ensure that these solutions can be 
deployed quickly and effectively, and can 
be hosted in the cloud, as we face new 
humanitarian crises in the coming years.

Also in FY2011, we will be giving special 
attention to how we help businesses restart 
and recover after a disaster. When business-
es can resume operations more quickly, the 
effect on individual livelihoods is reduced, 
and communities can once again become 
self-sufficient again. In the past, Microsoft 
has extended free support to customers 
and partners in affected areas. This year, 
however, we are working to provide in-
creased guidance to unmanaged customers 
and partners to help them build resiliency 
into their business systems. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

28

Operating Responsibly

Operating our business re-
sponsibly is essential to our 
long-term growth. Continued 
business success for Microsoft 
depends on the prosperity and 
health of communities, the 
strength and stability of econo-
mies, and the shared (and 
limited) resources of our planet. 
Therefore, operating our busi-
ness in a way that is conscious 
of our social and environmental 
impact is a core tenet of the 
Microsoft business strategy. 
This not only maintains our 
license to operate and grow, 
but also helps us manage our 
business more efficiently, which 
in turn creates value for our 
shareholders and for society. 

In seeking to operate responsibly, Microsoft 
is guided by our mission and adheres to 
our values, principles, and policies—from 
reducing our environmental footprint to 
ensuring that we compete responsibly in 
the global marketplace. We are also guided 
by the UN Global Compact and have com-
mitted ourselves to aligning our business 
operations with 10 established principles, 
spanning human rights, labor, environment, 
and business ethics. 

But Citizenship is not just how we do 
things—it’s also what we do and the effect 
we have. We continue to keep responsibil-
ity in focus in the products and services 
that we develop. This ranges from making 
Microsoft products more energy efficient to 
providing privacy and parental controls to 
help protect children’s safety online. 

In this section, we will discuss our specific 
work in FY2010 to operate responsibly, the 
targets we have set, our progress so far, and 
our plans for the future. 

Operating Responsibly: Goals

We see it as our responsibility to operate 
a responsible business in both the virtual 
and physical worlds. In this section we will 
discuss our goals to operate responsibly 
and to promote a healthy online ecosystem. 
As we continue to shift our focus to cloud 
computing, the online ecosystem goals 
become even more core to our future as a 
business. 

The following represent some of our most 
significant goals to operate responsibly and 
promote a healthy online ecosystem. Fur-
ther information on these and other targets 
is available in the remainder of this section. 

Microsoft Connector Service uses a series of transports 
which eliminate  4.2 million miles per year.

 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

29

Strategy: Promote a Healthy Online Ecosystem

Our Commitments

Key Areas of Progress in FY2010

Privacy & Freedom of 
Expression
Empower individuals to 
manage their information 
confidently and safely

Worked with leading human rights groups and industry peers to promote and follow the Global Network Initiative, an 
organization dedicated to advancing Internet freedom

Supported the 2010 Data Privacy Day, working with governments, advocates and industry across the United States, Eu-
rope, and the Middle East

Security 
Help ensure that data and 
information is secure and 
confidential

Released the Internet Fraud Alert tool to inform financial and online companies about compromised customer accounts
Collaborated with law enforcement agencies around the world to fight cybercrime, including filing the first lawsuits against 
malicious advertising, supporting action against fraudulent “scareware,” and gaining court orders to disconnect domains 
spreading Waledec and other botnets

Safety 
Make computing and the 
Internet safe for all users, 
including children

Trained 50,000 people in 25 countries/regions in how to stay safe online as part of the 2009 International Safe Internet Day

Enhanced parental controls with the launch of Windows Live® Family Safety Wave 4

Strategy: Operating Responsibly

Our Commitments

Key Areas of Progress in FY2010

Environment
Manage our business  
footprint and minimize  
the environmental impact  
of technology

Social
Support the welfare, diver-
sity, and development of our 
employees and suppliers

Built two new data centers that use 50 percent less energy to produce the same output as those designed three years ago

Reduced carbon emissions from corporate travel by 35 percent

Funded the collection of 9.3 million tons of e-waste, equivalent to 27 percent of total sales volume

Spent more than $1 billion with women- and minority-owned suppliers and vendors

Received multiple honors for creating a diverse and inclusive workplace, such as Working Mother’s 100 Best Companies 
for Working Mothers and the Human Rights Campaign’s 100 Best Places to Work

Invested $299 million in employee training programs and $45 million in employee wellness programs 

Achieved a 91 percent employee satisfaction rating on our Corporate Citizenship work in annual employee survey, which 
had an 85 percent worldwide response rate

Governance
Manage an accountable and 
well-governed business 

Outperformed 99 percent of S&P 500 companies as measured by Institutional Shareholder Services, a leading indepen-
dent ratings firm

Proactively adopted “Say on Pay” policy, giving shareholders a voice in executive compensation

Reached a resolution with the European Commission on a number of long-standing competition law issues

Reaffirmed our commitment to refrain from making corporate contributions to noncandidate or nonparty political 
committees despite the Citizens United v Federal Election Commission U.S. Supreme Court decision allowing such 
contributions

  Operating Responsibly

30

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Our People

Achieving the Microsoft corpo-
rate mission relies on our di-
verse and talented employees 
around the world—they are 
critical to the company’s long-
term success. Located in more 
than 100 countries/regions, 
our employees drive our busi-
nesses; develop the products, 
services, and solutions that our 
customers want and need; and 
apply their talents and passion 
toward making a difference on 
the things that matter to them. 
In FY2010, we directly em-
ployed nearly 90,000 full-time 
staff worldwide—about 55,000 
in the United States and about 
35,000 internationally.

All of our employee efforts are 
overseen by our Senior Vice 
President of Human Resources, 
who reports to our CEO.

Employee Satisfaction Survey

Each year, Microsoft conducts a satisfac-
tion survey among all employees to help 
us better understand their experiences. We 
take the responses to this survey extremely 
seriously. Management teams across the 
company create specific action plans based 
on the results to address areas for improve-
ment. These plans are communicated to 
employees throughout the year, metrics 
are tracked with transparency, and senior 
leadership is held accountable for improve-
ment against those plans. Action plans 
have ranged from small changes to very 
significant changes, such as adding to our 
multi-million dollar investments in employee 
development.

About 85 percent of Microsoft employees 
responded to the FY2010 survey. According 
to its results:

•  89 percent of employees feel proud to work 

for Microsoft. 

•  86 percent would recommend Microsoft as a 

great place to work. 

•  91 percent feel that they are treated with 
respect and dignity by their managers. 

•  83 percent feel that their work groups value 

diverse perspectives. 

•  82 percent have positive opinions of the de-
gree of flexibility that they are given in doing 
their jobs.

These results are well above the median 
benchmark for peer companies.

Compensation,  
Benefits, Learning & 
Development  
Approach

As Microsoft strives to operate responsibly 
and face a fiercely competitive market for 
highly skilled workers, we are trying hard 
to attract and retain the best people by 
creating a work environment that rewards, 
develops, and fosters the well-being of 
our people. We have created a dynamic 
workplace, and we continuously review 
and evolve our benefits and compensa-
tion structures to best reflect the interests, 
needs, and talents of our employees.

Commitments & 
Progress

Training & Development

Microsoft encourages employees to take 
part in shaping our business and their 
careers. The company offers multiple, 
customizable opportunities for employees 
to further their professional growth. We en-
courage a 70-20-10 philosophy for learning 
and development: 70 percent on the job, 
20 percent learning through others such as 
mentors and teammates, and 10 percent in 
formal online or in-person training. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

31

FY2010 Employee Training

Investment in training 

$299 million

Number of employee  
training courses offered 
through Microsoft

Number of employees  
participating in mentoring 
program

Number of employees  
participating in learning 
courses

Number of employees who 
received tuition assistance 
for external education and 
training

Nearly 3,300

More than 22,000 employees par-
ticipated in our formal mentoring 
program; many more participate 
informally

Nearly 86,300

More than 1,500 employees 
(totaling nearly $8.5 million in 
assistance)

We measure the success of employees’ 
growth through our annual performance 
management process, which focuses 
equally on career management and 
performance. The process encourages 
employees and their managers to focus 
on near-term delivery on goals and busi-
ness outcomes, as well as on the longer-
term cultivation of an enriching career.

Benefits 

The Microsoft benefits programs extend 
from the workplace into homes and 
communities. We offer a zero-contribu-
tion health plan, a 401(k) savings with 
corporate match, a discount purchase 
plan for Microsoft stock, and the Stay Fit 
health club and reimbursement offerings. 

Microsoft encourages balance between 
work and life, providing benefits such as 
referral services, proactive health pro-
grams, financial education, maternity and 
parental leave allowances, flexible work 
arrangements such as part-time and 
telecommuting, and other programs. The 
offerings are continuously reviewed and 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

32

updated to reflect the interests and needs 
of our employees around the globe. 

FY2010 Investment in Employee Benefits

Employee retirement  
accounts 

Total FY2010

$275 million

Wellness programs 

$45 million

Life & disability  
insurance programs 

$50 million

Compensation

Microsoft manages a pay-for-performance 
approach to compensation that is designed 
to attract and reward the talent we have. 
We also provide additional recognition (for 
example, awards and bonus opportunities) 
to reward exceptional work. 

Outlook

Microsoft will continue to evaluate ways to 
invest in the training, development, and fu-
ture of our employees. We will also look for 
ways to further support work/life balance, 
such as extending our use of technology 
for telecommuting and collaboration with 
colleagues, customers, and partners around 
the globe. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

33

Diversity & Inclusion
Approach

Microsoft strongly believes that a diverse 
workforce brings greater perspective, 
knowledge, and experience to Microsoft 
making it the company of choice for talent 
from around the world. Being able to at-
tract, develop, and retain this talent enables 
us to be more innovative in the products 
that we develop, in the way that we solve 
problems, and in the way that we serve the 
needs of an increasingly global and diverse 
customer base. Our global diversity and 
inclusion (GD&I) approach has three ele-
ments:

•  Representation: The diversity of our people 
is a critical link in our ability to anticipate and 
respond to the unique needs of our increas-
ingly diverse customer base. 

•  Inclusion: Cultivating a work environment 
where employees are truly engaged and 
their contributions are fully valued helps us 
sustain our diversity gains. 

•  Market innovation: Building the best 

software means incorporating the talents 
and insights of our varied workforce into our 
products and services, and recognizing the 
needs and priorities of our diverse customer, 
supplier, and partner bases.

Our GD&I approach is overseen by the Mi-
crosoft General Manager of Global Diversity 
and Inclusion, who reports to our Senior 
Vice President for Human Resources. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Commitments & 
Progress

Microsoft currently employs people from 
more than 100 different countries/regions. 
We have written policies that cover equal 
opportunities and anti-discrimination for 

all employees globally, and we are a widely 
recognized leader in workplace diversity 
and inclusion. 

The following table details some of our 
progress against the three elements of our 
GD&I strategy in FY2010. 

34

We Said We Would 

We Have

Elevate the talent pipeline conver-
sation to the Microsoft senior lead-
ership team regarding retaining, 
advancing, and hiring senior-level 
women and minorities in the United 
States 

Engaged the senior leadership team in a pipeline discussion on senior-level women globally and minorities in 
the United States, resulting in an increased focus on retaining strong performers, advancing internal talent, and 
identifying strategic external employees for hire

Continued to support employee-driven Diversity Advisory Councils. In FY2010, these councils were restructured 
into about 50 Employee Resource Groups and Employee Networks to align with Microsoft business needs and 
enhance our focus on inclusion

Encouraged minority students to pursue careers in technology. Programs included the nineteenth annual Blacks 
at Microsoft Employee Network student day and the DigiGirlz technology programs that give high school girls 
the opportunity to explore careers in technology

Develop and highlight manager be-
haviors that encourage inclusion to 
strengthen teams and help achieve 
organizational performance

Trained almost half of our workforce on diversity and inclusion topics (in the past two years)

Held a six-week Diversity and Inclusion “Back to Basics” program for employees in Asia. The program included a 
series of tips to help demystify what Diversity and Inclusion is all about, as well as to help participants under-
stand how they can bring it to life within their teams

Held a variety of women’s networking events in Belgium, China, Denmark, Ireland, Israel, and the United 
Kingdom. The events raised awareness for issues of advancement for women in high technology, encouraged 
networking, and enabled sharing of best practices

Held the 2010 Microsoft China Women’s Leadership and Development Conference in Beijing and Shanghai

Received numerous honors for fostering an inclusive workplace, including recognition as one of America’s Top 
Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises, Working Mother’s 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers, 
the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Best Places to Work, and annual Great Place to Work awards from 
the Great Place to Work Institute for locations throughout the United States, Asia, and Europe. In 2010, Micro-
soft was named a Great Place to Work in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, 
Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, and Sweden

Begin focus on market innovation 
and develop a fact base to evalu-
ate key opportunities to market to 
diverse populations.

Spent more than $1 billion with women- and minority-owned suppliers, an achievement for which we were in-
ducted into the Billion Dollar Roundtable, an organization that recognizes companies for engaging with diverse 
suppliers

Made products such as Microsoft Office and Windows available in 100 languages through our Local Language 
Program

Provided a customized Hispanic theme pack for Windows 7 that enables Hispanics/Latinos to personalize their 
experience through audio and artwork 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Woman & Minorities at Microsoft 
FY2010

35

APPROXIMATELY

APPROXIMATELY

21,600 women are in the 

Microsoft workforce

women and minorities are in executive 
positions in the Microsoft workforce.

40

Outlook

In today’s highly competitive business 
environment, our success depends on our 
ability to anticipate technology and market 
trends and then respond quickly by deliver-
ing innovation that creates new opportuni-
ties for Microsoft, our customers, and the 
industry as a whole. Our emphasis on diver-
sity and inclusion has enabled us to build a 
diverse employee base and create a work 
environment that fosters talent and creativ-
ity. Microsoft welcomes different experienc-
es, perspectives, and capabilities, and we 
consider these differences an organizational 
asset and a key enabler for innovation. If 
we are to effectively build a diverse and 
inclusive workforce, we must link diversity to 
our business strategy and hold our leaders 
accountable for achieving specific goals. As 
a result, in FY2011 Microsoft is intensifying 
its GD&I focus on increased leadership ac-
countability and fostering inclusive behav-
iors in the workplace.

Diversity Outreach  
at Microsoft

Microsoft diversity outreach programs 
worldwide are geared toward promoting 
technology-related careers among minority 
groups, youth, and women. We will con-
tinue to partner and support organizations 
that strengthen diversity and inclusion in 
our industry and in the marketplace. In the 
United States, these organizations include 
the National Urban League, Catalyst, the 
Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council, and the Minority Business Devel-
opment Agency. Programs on which we 
collaborate with these organizations include 
technology seminars that target minori-
ties, youth, and women. Microsoft focuses 
on programs that can elevate visibility of 
industry opportunities to minorities and that 
can cultivate the talents of young students 
to stimulate their interest in technology 
careers. We also partner with and support 
premier national organizations such as the 
National Society of Black Engineers, the 
National Black MBA Association (NBMBAA), 
and the National Association of Minor-
ity Engineering Program Administrators. 
Over the past few years we have invested 
hundreds of millions of dollars in dedicated 
outreach to attract minorities and women 
to high-tech careers. This financial support 
was in the form of grants, scholarships, 
event sponsorships, and partnerships with 
universities and organizations that serve 
women globally and minorities in the United 
States. 

Women & Minority Statistics

Women globally in the  
Microsoft workforce

Minorities in the United States 
Microsoft workforce

FY2010

24%

34%

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Our employee giving and volunteer pro-
gram is overseen by the Microsoft Senior 
Manager for Employee Engagement, who 
reports to the Senior Director of Global 
Community Affairs.

36

FY2010 Employee Volunteer Program  
US Only Data

363,396 HRS.

Employee  
Community  
Involvement

Approach

One of the most valuable ways that Micro-
soft can contribute to our communities is 
by supporting our talented employees in 
giving their time, passion, and expertise to 
their neighbors. Not only does this help 
us make a strong social impact, but it also 
helps us provide employees with oppor-
tunities outside work to engage with one 
another and develop their team-building 
and leadership skills. 

Microsoft provides employees with a variety 
of community involvement opportunities.  A 
global volunteer program, localized to meet 
the needs of each geography and culture, 
encourages employees to use their skills 
and time to support community efforts.  In 
addition, Microsoft manages a matching 
gifts program for U.S. employees’ direct 
cash and software donations up to $12,000 
annually to thousands of eligible 501(c)(3) 
and educational institutions. Similar match-
ing gift programs are administered world-
wide by participating subsidiaries.

Microsoft supports employee community 
involvement through:

•  Paid time off for employees to volunteer 

•  Opportunities to participate in Microsoft 

team volunteer activities, including company-
wide community volunteering days or weeks 
and organized group volunteer activities 

•  Use of corporate facilities and resources for 

charitable activities 

•  Board service training and placement  

assistance 

•  Grants to organizations for which employees 

volunteer (U.S. only) 

4,200

NUMbER OF EMPLOYEES 
VOLUNTEERING

•  Payroll deductions and gift-matching  

donations (U.S. and some participating  
subsidiaries internationally)

Commitments & 
Progress

Since the launch of our giving program, 
Microsoft employees, with corporate match, 
have donated more than $750 million to 
nonprofit organizations. Since 2005 in the 
United States alone, employees have vol-
unteered more than 1 million hours in their 
communities. Microsoft has matched each 
of those hours with a $17 contribution to 
the nonprofit of the employee volunteer’s 
choice. 

In FY2010, Microsoft employees again 
made an extraordinary impact working 
together for our communities. 

FY2010 Employee Giving US Only Data

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

The following are examples of our employ-
ees’ efforts in FY2010. 

37

•  In partnership with the United Arab Emir-

ates Ministry of Education and the Center for 
Women and Technology for the Arab Region, 
Microsoft volunteers held the region’s first Di-
giGirlz Day. This event introduced more than 
200 high school girls to the many careers 
available to them in the technology sector. 
The attendees participated in workshops 
with Microsoft volunteers and used Microsoft 
software in hands-on projects.  

•  Microsoft volunteers formed a team to 

take employee donations to the next level 
during our annual giving campaign. These 
volunteers created an auction tool built on 
the Windows Azure platform and Microsoft 
Silverlight to enable all employees to donate 
or bid on auction items. Over 700 items were 
contributed, raising more than $450,000 for 
United Way.

EMPLOYEE DONATIONS

MICROSOFT MATCH 

$40.8 MILLION

 $43.7 MILLION

TOTAL MORE THAN

Outlook

$84 MILLION

MORE THAN 34,500 EMPLOYEES

62%

The economic climate this past year made 
the year challenging for fundraising. Despite 
the challenges, Microsoft employee giving 
raised more than $84 million, including the 
corporate match.  In addition, we celebrat-
ed a major milestone with our employee 
volunteer program, reaching over 1 million 
hours of volunteer service since the pro-
gram was started in FY2006. 

In FY2011, Microsoft is focusing on increas-
ing our giving and volunteering efforts and 
on enabling our employees to better con-
tribute their technology skills in the commu-
nities where those skills are most needed. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

  Operating Responsibly

38

Environmental Sustainability

Microsoft is committed to 
software and technology in-
novation that helps people and 
organizations around the world 
improve the environment. Our 
goals are to reduce the impact 
of our operations and products 
and to drive responsible envi-
ronmental leadership. 

Environmental efforts at Microsoft are over-
seen by our Chief Environmental Strategist, 
who reports to our Corporate Vice Presi-
dent for Trustworthy Computing. They lead 
a cross-functional environmental sustain-
ability team that is responsible for gover-
nance of environmental impacts across our 
operations and products. This management 
team reports to an executive steering com-
mittee that includes the Chief Operating 
Officer, Chief Technology and Strategy Of-
ficer, and a dozen other senior leaders from 
across the company. Ultimately, governance 
for environmental sustainability rests with 
our Board of Directors Governance and 
Nominating Committee, whose charter 
includes oversight of environmental sustain-
ability, public policy, and citizenship issues.

The most comprehensive and recent information 
on environmental efforts at Microsoft is available 
on the Microsoft Environment website at http://
www.microsoft.com/environment. 

Microsoft Environmental Sustainability Strat-
egy focuses on three core areas: 

•  Using information technology to improve 

energy efficiency: We are working to unlock 
technology’s potential to enable a more 
energy-efficient economy.  

•  Accelerating research breakthroughs: We are 
researching and developing technologies to 
help solve environmental challenges.  

•  Demonstrating responsible environmental 

leadership: We are focused on incorporating 
sustainable practices into our operations and 
minimizing our own environmental footprint, 
while growing our business. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

39

Using IT to Improve 
Energy Efficiency  
Approach

At Microsoft, we see information technology 
(IT) as a key tool to help address the daunt-
ing energy and climate challenges that the 
world faces. Microsoft envisions a clean 
energy ecosystem in which IT empowers 
people and organizations with software 
tools and information that help increase 
energy efficiency and accelerates innovation 
and deployment of clean energy sources. In 
particular, we are focused on improving the 
energy efficiency of IT itself and working in 
partnership with customers and others to 
accelerate the use of IT to enable energy 
efficiency across all sectors of the economy.

To deliver on this responsibility, we are 
working to:

•  Improve the energy efficiency of our prod-

ucts and services 

•  Create new products and services to help 

solve environmental problems 

•  Collaborate with our partners and our indus-

try peers to increase energy efficiency

Outlook

In FY2010 we significantly increased our 
focus on working with partners inside and 
outside the IT sector to promote the energy 
saving potential of IT on the world stage—
particularly through our involvement in 
COP15. We will build on this momentum 
in FY2011 by helping create new energy 
efficiency guidelines for our own product 
groups and for the software industry as a 
whole. We will also focus on developing 
energy efficiency software, catalyzing more 
environmental solutions in the Microsoft 
partner ecosystem, and co-chairing the 
ICT4EE forum in the European Union to set 
standards for measuring the contribution IT 
is making to carbon reductions. 

This work is becoming increasingly impor-
tant because the growth of cloud com-
puting is putting pressure on data center 
energy consumption. We will work with our 
industry peers and third-party organizations 
to find solutions to allow for the future of 
cloud computing, while reducing environ-
mental impacts. 

We Said We Would 

We Have

Improve the energy efficiency of IT 
in our own products and working in 
partnership across the IT industry

Launched Windows 7, our most energy efficient operating system to date, designed to use less energy when 
idle or active.

Developed new power management tools that IT administrators can use to view, manage, and reduce energy 
consumption as part of Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, and the latest R3 beta release of Microsoft® 
System Center Configuration Manager.

Opened and operated new data centers that consume 50 percent less energy than those built just three years 
ago. In FY2011, we will continue to work to reduce the Power Use Effectiveness (PUE) of our new data center 
designs. Our goal by 2012 is to construct new data centers that average 1.125 in PUE (the industry average is 
currently 2; optimal energy use is 1). 

Created a “power savings calculator” within the Microsoft Assessment and Planning Toolkit, a free resource that 
is available to customers. The calculator provides a report of potential savings from adopting energy-efficient 
computing technologies. More than 215,000 customers and partners downloaded the toolkit in FY2010. 

Helped develop the EU Code of Conduct for Data Centers, a voluntary commitment to implement energy ef-
ficiency best practices within data centers.

Continued to work with the Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI) to reduce the IT industry’s carbon foot-
print by over 50 million metric tons a year by 2010. This past year we chaired CSCI’s Power Down for the Planet 
college campaign, hosted the summer board meeting, and recruited several new companies to the CSCI board. 
Since 2007, the global IT sector has reduced annual carbon emissions from computing equipment by 32 million 
to 36 million metric tons. We are on target to achieve the goal of 50 million tons by June 2011.

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

40

We Said We Would 

We Have

Use IT to reduce energy use and ad-
dress environmental problems

Launched Microsoft® Hohm™, a free, cloud-based application to help consumers better understand their 
at-home energy use and get recommendations to save energy and money. In FY2011, Ford will integrate Mi-
crosoft Hohm into its electric vehicle models, beginning with the Ford Focus Electric, to help drivers track their 
energy usage.

Launched the Microsoft Smart Energy Reference Architecture, a roadmap to help utility companies solve inte-
gration issues that are associated with smart grid development and energy ecosystem advancement. 

Expanded our partnership with the European Environment Agency (EEA) to launch Air Watch, a new application 
that enables EU citizens to access up-to-date, easy-to-understand information on air quality. 

Participated in the UN Climate Change Conference 2009 (COP15) in December 2009 to share best practices 
on how IT can address energy challenges. At COP15, in partnership with the European Environment Agency, 
we launched the Environmental Atlas of Europe, an online storytelling platform with videos, photos, and data 
illustrating the local impact of climate change in Europe. We also highlighted the Microsoft technology that 
powers Bend the Trend, an innovative online pledging program that enables individuals to reduce their carbon 
emissions. 

Partnered with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Accenture, and SAP to help the CDP enhance its reporting 
infrastructure to enable companies to report more detailed and standardized information about their environ-
mental impact.

Responsible  
Environmental  
Leadership  
Approach

For Microsoft, operating responsibly with 
respect to the environment does not end 
with our products. To retain our license to 
operate, Microsoft ensures that our own 
operations fully comply with international 
environmental regulations and the specific 
environmental requirements of each coun-
try/region where we do business. But our 
goal is to go beyond compliance—we seek 
to reduce the impact of our operations and 
to function in a way that will be sustainable 
over the long term. 

The following environmental principles 
guide Microsoft operations: 

•  Conserving, reusing, and recycling 

•  Reducing and disposing of waste 

•  Developing safe and sustainable products 

•  Making environmental stewardship part of 

our business relationships  

•  Continually improving our environmental 

performance 

•  Demonstrating responsibility to our stake-

holders

Commitments & 
Progress

We Said We Would

We Have

Reduce carbon emissions per 
unit of revenue by 30 percent 
by 2012 compared with 2007

Taken steps to reduce our carbon 
footprint. In FY2010 we achieved 
a 35 percent reduction in carbon 
emissions from travel. We are 
working toward our 2012 goal

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

41

Microsoft Connector Service uses a series of transports 
which eliminate 4.2 million miles per year.

Reducing Carbon
Emissions

Each calendar year, Microsoft measures its 
global carbon footprint and reports it pub-
licly to the Carbon Disclosure Project. For 
calendar year 2009, we reported emissions 
of 1,299,356 metric tons of CO2 equivalent 
(Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 employee 
travel). To reduce this level to meet our 
2012 goal, we have identified four major ar-
eas of our business operations for particular 
attention: data centers, travel, buildings, 
and computer labs. The reductions outlined 
below are not enough to achieve our goal 
on their own, but we believe they are the 
areas that will make the biggest difference. 

Data Centers

Target: Increase data center efficiency

•  Our new data centers consume 50 percent 
less energy for the same level of output 
than data centers built just three years ago, 
and we have aggressive goals for further 
improvements by 2012. In FY2010, Micro-
soft centers in Chicago and Dublin received 
industry awards for energy efficiency. 

Travel

Target: Reduce corporate travel by 20 per-
cent in FY2010 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

other environmental impacts. The follow-
ing is a sampling of some of these efforts in 
FY2010. 

42

Recycling

Microsoft is working to increase recycling of 
our products and of all consumer electron-
ics after use. In calendar 2009, we funded 
the collection and recycling of more than 
9.3 million kilograms of electronic materi-
als—27 percent of worldwide sales volume. 
We expect that number will reach 28 per-
cent by the end of calendar year 2010. 

As part of this effort, in April 2010 Microsoft 
joined Dell and Goodwill Industries Interna-
tional in the Reconnect computer recycling 
program, which lets consumers recycle used 
personal electronics at no cost. By support-
ing the program, the 1,900-plus participat-
ing Goodwill locations in the United States 
and Canada will now collect Microsoft en-
tertainment products, including Xbox, Zune, 
and accompanying accessories. 

Waste Reduction

In FY2010 at Microsoft headquarters (which 
represents about half of our total office 
space), we diverted 63 percent of our solid 
waste from landfills through recycling and 
composting programs—up from 59 percent 
in FY2009. As a result of this effort and oth-
ers, the dining program at our main campus 
in Redmond this year became a Green Res-
taurant Association 2-Star Certified Green 
Restaurant—the first and only corporate 
dining program to earn this recognition. 

We are also working on recycling and waste 
reduction in the offices outside our head-
quarters, and in FY2011 we will be improv-
ing our tracking of these efforts. 

Supply Chain

Microsoft is focused on reducing the envi-
ronmental impact of our supply chain. For 
more information on these efforts, see the 
Responsible Sourcing section of this report. 

•  We are continually working to reduce our 

corporate travel through the use of travel al-
ternatives, including Microsoft technology to 
enhance remote communication. Last year, 
we reduced our carbon emissions from travel 
by nearly 35 percent.

We have also given attention to emissions 
from employees’ commutes. We now oper-
ate a private bus system for employees that 
eliminates 4.2 million miles of employee 
travel each year. 

Buildings

Target: Reduce building energy use by 10 
percent in FY2010

FY2010 progress in building energy reduc-
tion included: 

•  An expanded green campus in Shanghai that 
has projected electricity savings of up to 47 
million kWh. 

•  New Microsoft-owned buildings designed to 
silver or greater LEED standards that con-
sume 20 percent less energy than traditional 
buildings.

Approximately 25 percent of our total 
energy purchases come from renewable 
sources, and over half of the energy used 
at Microsoft headquarters comes from 
hydroelectricity. 

Computer Labs

Target: Achieve a 6 percent reduction in 
carbon emissions by consolidating com-
puter labs 

•  In FY2010, we finished our first purpose-built 
Research & Development Support facility. It is 
designed to consolidate computer labs and 
servers, and ultimately to deliver an overall 
carbon savings of 12,000 metric tons per year. 

Reducing Other
Environmental Impacts

In addition to reducing our carbon footprint, 
Microsoft continues to work to reduce our 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

43

Outlook

In all of these areas, Microsoft will continue 
working to reduce energy use, carbon 
footprint, and other environmental impacts. 
In FY2011 we are working to enhance the 
systems that we use to track energy use 
and our carbon footprint globally to also 
cover our water consumption and waste; 
we plan to publicly report those for FY2011. 
In regard to our FY2012 emissions goal, the 
shift to cloud computing complicates our 
carbon reduction efforts by requiring us to 
expand our data center operations. We are 
currently evaluating options to address this 
issue. 

 Operating Responsibly

44

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Responsible Sourcing

At Microsoft, we view our sup-
ply chain as an extension of 
our business. As a result, part 
of our commitment to oper-
ate responsibly means work-
ing to ensure that our 62,000 
contractors, suppliers, and 
vendors understand and share 
that commitment. All vendors 
doing business with Micro-
soft must agree to abide by 
our Vendor Code of Conduct, 
which sets out our expecta-
tions about ethical business 
practices, employment practic-
es, and compliance with envi-
ronmental and worker safety 
requirements. For some types 
of suppliers, such as those 
providing contract manufactur-
ing of our Microsoft-branded 
hardware, we go beyond the 
Vendor Code of Conduct with 
additional requirements and an 
on-site audit program. 

We also work to promote positive envi-
ronmental and social outcomes from our 
sourcing practices, ranging from increasing 
market demand for greener computers and 
local organic food to supporting diverse 
suppliers.

Our sourcing initiatives are largely decen-
tralized across Microsoft business groups, 
with central resources provided by our 
Corporate Global Procurement Group, Legal 
and Corporate Affairs Department, and 
subject matter experts such as our Director 
of Supplier Diversity. 

Commitments & 
Progress

The following are some of the areas of 
focus within our supply chain. 

Labor, Safety, and Human Rights

The Microsoft Vendor Code of Conduct sets 
workplace and human rights standards for 
our suppliers. We seek to ensure confor-
mance to these standards through direct 
engagement and training of our contracted 
direct material suppliers. We conduct 
informal and formal risk-based third-
party monitoring based on the Electronics 
Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code 
of Conduct, laws, and regulations. This 
performance and capability assessment lets 
us identify performance gaps and improve 
processes to reduce risk and ensure a ro-
bust and sustainable supply chain.

In FY2010, a report from the international 
nonprofit organization National Labor 
Committee (NLC) pressed us to take a hard 
look at our existing standards and how 
we implement them. The report charged 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

45

employee mistreatment at a supplier factor 
in Dongguan, China, that assembles and 
packages hardware products for Micro-
soft and a range of other companies. This 
supplier has signed our Vendor Code of 
Conduct and already faced quarterly audits 
from Microsoft personnel and annual audits 
from an independent auditor. During the 
past two years, worker overtime has been 
significantly reduced and worker compen-
sation is in line with the EICC standards for 
the Dongguan area. Nevertheless, we took 
the NLC report extremely seriously, initiated 
a special on-site audit, and are now working 
with this supplier to ensure full compliance 
with the provisions of our Code of Con-
duct. This experience has also prompted 
us to look for ways to enhance our Code 
of Conduct and monitoring processes to 
ensure the fair treatment of all workers in 
our supply chain.

Environment

Suppliers are part of our business, and so 
we take suppliers into account in addressing 
our environmental footprint. There are nu-
merous ways that we work to address en-
vironmental issues with our suppliers, from 
measuring the greenhouse gas emissions of 
our Tier 1 contract hardware manufacturers 
to seeking more locally sourced and organic 
food for our cafeterias. To increase the 
demand for greener computers, Microsoft 
recently updated our corporate computer 
purchasing standards to make sure that all 
computers that we buy for our employees 
meet the latest energy efficiency standards 
from the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s Energy Star 5.0 requirements. We 
also require that computers that we buy 
meet the Gold level requirements of the 
Electronic Product Environmental Assess-
ment Tool (EPEAT), an environmental rating 
initiative.

Diversity

The Microsoft Director of Supplier Diversity 
leads a team dedicated to providing the 
opportunity to effectively compete for our 
business to certified Minority and Women 
Business Enterprises and veteran-owned 
businesses, Small Disadvantaged Busi-
nesses, and HUBZone business concerns. 

In FY2010, we spent over $1 billion with 
suppliers that are woman-owned, minority-
owned, or veteran-owned. This puts us 
among the top 15 companies worldwide 
in supplier diversity spending. We are one 
of only about a dozen other U.S. corpora-
tions that spend a similar amount with such 
businesses. The team also worked with the 
Microsoft Treasury Department to increase 
our deposits in 20 local, minority-owned 
banks. Finally, as part of our commitment 
to supplier diversity, Microsoft made a $3 
million contribution to the Business Consor-
tium Fund of the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council. 

Supplier Satisfaction 

Microsoft seeks to ensure that we treat our 
suppliers fairly and responsibly. In FY2010, 
the Global Microsoft Vendor Program 
(MSVP) Team surveyed more than 2,000 
vendors in the United States, Asia, Latin 
America, Europe, the Middle East, and Can-
ada, and had a response rate of 35percent. 
(MSVP vendors constitute our preferred 
supplier base and represent about 80 per-
cent of our overall procurement spending). 
We’re gratified that more than 90 percent 
of MSVP vendors reported their Microsoft 
business relationship to be better than that 
with their other clients.

Outlook

Microsoft has worked for decades to 
manage our supply chain responsibly and 
was among the first wave of information 
technology companies to develop common 
codes and practices to promote human 
rights and workplace rights in its supply 
chain. Allegations of unsafe and unethical 
working conditions in at least one of our 
suppliers’ factories have prompted us to re-
view and enhance our standards and audit 
processes and to consider what other parts 
of our supply chain may pose similar risks. 
In FY2011, we will be updating our Vendor 
Code of Conduct as part of an all-up review 
and assessment of our supply chain man-
agement policies and practices.  

 Operating Responsibly

46

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Online Privacy and Safety

People use information tech-
nology (IT) to convey informa-
tion and ideas in novel and 
creative ways. IT gives us new 
opportunities to express our-
selves, to be heard, to connect 
with each other, and to ac-
cess even obscure information 
easily. Cloud computing en-
hances these capabilities for all 
of us—individuals, businesses, 
governments, and nonprof-
its—creating more access and 
presenting a host of exciting 
new opportunities for users 
everywhere. 

will only grow in importance. Microsoft 
launched the Windows Azure cloud 
service in November 2009, and by June 
2010 there were 10,000 paying Windows 
Azure customers. Today there are more 
than 360 million active Windows Live® 
Hotmail® users, all of whom entrust their 
data to Microsoft cloud services. Micro-
soft is working hard to honor this trust. 
Our goal is to remain an industry leader 
in privacy and security.

Operating in a global technology market 
brings many complex, and sometimes 
competing, responsibilities. In address-
ing these responsibilities, we have 
learned that we must engage with all our 
stakeholders and develop cross-sector 
partnerships to adapt our products, poli-
cies, and actions to help keep consumers 
safer and more secure online. We have 
also learned that we must constantly 
evolve as the online environment contin-
ues to grow and change. 

These technologies yield great benefits, but 
they also create significant responsibilities 
for those who design and operate them. 
New uses of technology put privacy, securi-
ty, online safety, and freedom of expression 
at the forefront as today’s critical business 
and societal issues. 

As more people move their data to the 
cloud in the coming years, these issues 

         
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

47

Privacy, Data Security 
& Online Safety  
Approach

Promoting a healthy online ecosystem—
which includes consumers, content pub-
lishers, advertisers, network operators, 
and service providers—is both a business 
imperative and a key Microsoft Citizen-
ship goal. In pursuing this goal, Microsoft 
promotes privacy, data security, and online 
safety in our products, services, programs, 
and partnerships. We support technology, 
design, and public policy approaches that 
help make computing and the Internet saf-
er, more trustworthy, and more customer-
friendly. How we handle user privacy, data 
security, and online safety affects all of our 
users and society as a whole. To ensure that 
we have input from various constituencies, 
Microsoft engages with consumers, adver-
tisers, publishers, law enforcement agencies, 
and our shareholders. We constantly listen 
to the concerns and perspectives of each 
group, and we strive to balance and inte-
grate their viewpoints in our work to create 
a safer online environment.

To address the issues of privacy, data 
security, and online safety, Microsoft brings 
together a broad network of personnel 
from across the company who have exper-
tise in these areas. As part of that network, 
a core group of experts in our Legal and 
Corporate Affairs team is responsible for 
engaging with stakeholders and developing 
Microsoft policy. The Microsoft Corporate 
Vice President of Trustworthy Computing, 
who reports to the Microsoft Chief Research 
and Strategy Officer, oversees privacy, data 
security, online safety, accessibility, and 
environmental sustainability efforts. Our 
Trustworthy Computing Group is a global 
team of more than 400 professionals.

Commitments & 
Progress

Microsoft takes seriously our responsi-
bility to promote healthy competition, 
innovation, and choice, as well as privacy 
and safety. The following are some re-
cent examples of our actions. 

Products & Services

Microsoft released several products and 
services in the past year that promote 
our goals of increased privacy and safety. 
These are just some of those technolo-
gies:

•  PhotoDNA™: In December 2009, Micro-
soft donated PhotoDNA technology to 
the National Center for Missing and Ex-
ploited Children (NCMEC) to help disrupt 
the spread of graphic child pornography 
images online. Since 2003, NCMEC has 
reviewed and analyzed almost 30 million 
photos and videos of child sexual abuse, 
and the organization projects that 9 
million more such photos and videos will 
be reviewed and analyzed in the coming 
year. Developed by Microsoft Research 
in collaboration with Dartmouth Col-
lege, PhotoDNA uses a technique known 
as “robust hashing” to create a unique 
signature, like a fingerprint, for a digital 
photo. This provides a way for online 
service providers to identify and stop the 
spread of the most horrific images of child 
sexual abuse. 

•  Windows Live Family Safety: Launched 
in August 2009 as part of Windows Live® 
Essentials, Windows Live Family Safety is 
a free parental control program that gives 
parents the ability to manage their chil-
dren’s Internet activity, including websites 
and online contacts. The program can 
also generate a report for parents so that 
they can monitor their children’s com-
puter and online activity. In June 2010, 
Windows Live Family Safety Wave 4 beta 
was released, offering new image-block-
ing capability and improved performance 
and integration with Windows Parental 
Controls. In addition, SafeSearch is locked 
“on” for all major search engines and 
websites.

•  U-Prove: In March 2010, Microsoft released 
a community technology preview of our U-
Prove technology. U-Prove gives online service 
providers tools to help them better protect 
user privacy and enhance security by reducing 
the amount of information that users need to 
disclose to complete online transactions. 

•  Microsoft® Forefront® Identity Manager 
(FIM) 2010: By using FIM 2010 (released in 
March 2010), which replaces Identity Lifecycle 
Manager 2007, IT professionals have more 
tools to solve day-to-day tasks, such as del-
egating administration and creating workflows 
for common identity management tasks. 

•  Internet Fraud Alert: Together with the 

National Cyber-Forensics and Training Alliance 
(NCFTA), in June 2010 Microsoft helped re-
lease Internet Fraud Alert. Through a central-
ized alert system managed by NCFTA and 
powered by Microsoft technology, Internet 
Fraud Alert is a tool that can be used to 
quickly inform financial and online companies 
about compromised customer account cre-
dentials (for example, online usernames and 
passwords) or stolen credit card numbers. 

Collaboration with 
Law Enforcement
In addition to developing technology 
tools, Microsoft supports certain law en-
forcement efforts through shared investi-
gations, referrals, legal actions, and train-
ing. In the past year, this has included:

•  Winfixer scareware indictments by the 
FBI and the U.S. Department of Justice: 
In May 2010, the FBI and the U.S. Depart-
ment of Justice announced indictments in 
a major “scareware” scheme believed to 
have caused $100 million in losses. This 
scareware urges consumers to purchase 
useless and expensive software to pro-
tect their personal computers. Microsoft 
experts gave the FBI data on damages and 
forensic analysis and testified before the 
grand jury.  

•  Malvertising lawsuits: In September 
2009, five lawsuits were filed targeting 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

camouflaged malicious code within seem-
ingly harmless online ads. These were the 
first lawsuits of their kind. 

48

•  Bing Search online public service an-

nouncements: In September 2009, Micro-
soft, with the Federal Trade Commission and 
the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, launched 
a series of online public service announce-
ments within our Bing search engine to alert 
consumers to common online scams involv-
ing issues such as credit repair, mortgage 
foreclosure, and fake lottery scams. 

•  Operation b49: In February 2010, Micro-
soft obtained a court order to disable 277 
domains believed to be part of the Waledac 
botnet, severing about 80,000 infected com-
puters from the botnet and helping put an 
end to the ongoing damage this botnet was 
causing worldwide. The first of its kind, Op-
eration b49 is expected to serve as a model 
for future actions through Project MARS 
(Microsoft Active Response for Security), a 
joint effort of the Microsoft Digital Crimes 
Unit and the Trustworthy Computing team to 
proactively combat cyber threats. 

•  Law enforcement training programs in 

partnership with state attorneys general: 
Since 2005, Microsoft has worked directly 
with attorneys general to deliver cybercrime 
training for law enforcement in 18 states: 
Alabama, Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, 
Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, 
Michigan, New Hampshire, New Mexico, 
New York, Oregon, South Carolina, Texas, 
Utah, Virginia, and Washington. 

•  Case referrals: Throughout the past year, 

Microsoft continued supporting cyber threat 
investigations through case referrals with 
leads for criminal enforcement actions. 

Programs &
Initiatives 

Microsoft has several initiatives to promote 
privacy, security, and trust in Microsoft 
products and services and in the technol-
ogy ecosystem. Some of key initiatives that 

Microsoft has maintained over the past year 
include:

Policy

49

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

•  End to End Trust: End to End Trust is the Mi-
crosoft initiative to promote privacy, security, 
and safety by improving the trustworthiness 
of who or what a computer is connected 
to online. We engage a broad community 
about the technology and social policy issues 
involved in addressing this subject, and we 
provided an update on progress in March 
2010 at the RSA global security conference. 

•  Security Development Lifecycle and Pri-

vacy Guidelines for Developers: Microsoft 
shares our findings about writing more 
secure code and building privacy into tech-
nology. These efforts help other companies 
secure data and privacy for their organiza-
tions and customers and help developers 
write software that better protects privacy. In 
2010, we launched an updated version of the 
Software Development Lifecycle at TechEd 
Europe that is focused on software compa-
nies with short release cycles.  

•  Data Privacy Day: Data Privacy Day is an 

annual, international day to raise awareness 
and generate discussion about information 
privacy. Over the past few years, privacy pro-
fessionals, corporations, government officials 
and representatives, academics, and students 
in the United States, Canada, and 27 Euro-
pean countries have participated. On January 
28, 2010, Microsoft worked with key privacy 
advocates, policymakers, and industry rep-
resentatives to lead and participate in Data 
Privacy Day activities throughout the United 
States, Europe, and the Middle East.  

•  International Safer Internet Day: For the 

seventh year, Microsoft partnered with Insafe 
and multiple nongovernmental organizations 
from Helsinki to Hong Kong in raising safety 
awareness worldwide as part of International 
Safer Internet Day. The 2010 theme was 
“Think B4U Post,” and in Europe alone, more 
than 600 Microsoft employees in 25 coun-
tries trained 50,000 people on how to stay 
safer online.

Pursuing policy solutions with governments 
around the world is a significant part of our 
effort to promote a safer online environ-
ment. Changes in policy are becoming ever 
more important as we move more toward 
cloud computing. Examples of Microsoft 
efforts in 2010 include:

•  Digital Due Process: We joined with more 
than 30 other organizations and individuals 
to advocate for stronger privacy protections 
for communications and associated data, 
while preserving the legal tools necessary for 
law enforcement and emergency response. 

•  Capacity building to fight cybercrime: 
Microsoft has advocated for various poli-
cies to help curtail cybercrime. One example 
is our work in Nigeria. Microsoft Digital 
Crimes Unit, Microsoft Nigeria, and Nigeria’s 
Economic and Financial Crime Commission 
(EFCC) have been working to curtail advance 
fee fraud (419 scams), scams that are often 
based on fake lotteries and bogus inheri-
tance claims. We established the Microsoft 
Internet Safety, Security and Privacy Initiative 
for Nigeria (MISSPIN), which brings together 
24 local ambassadors to educate communi-
ties around the country and find productive 
online alternatives to scamming. In February 
2010, MISSPIN joined with leading Nigerian 
artists to release the anti-cybercrime song 
“Maga No Need Pay,” which is aimed at pro-
moting social change within Nigeria.

For additional details on Microsoft engagement with 
policymakers on this issue in the past year, see the 
http://www.microsoft.com/citizenshipreport site for 
more information.

Outlook

Looking forward to 2011 and beyond, 
there are four areas in which Microsoft will 
continue to focus our efforts to improve 
the online ecosystem and generate good 
integration among policy goals, including 
privacy, security, and online safety:

•  End to End Trust: Secure Online Collabora-
tion: As businesses move more data to the 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

50

cloud, it becomes more important to have ef-
fective tools and processes that manage access, 
enable collaboration, and help protect privacy 
and security. Microsoft will focus on identity so-
lutions for this challenge, including applications 
in the areas of education and health care. 

•  Aligning legal and social policies on security 
and privacy in a global environment: When 
consumers, enterprises, and governments store 
and manage data through online services—that 
is, the data is “in the cloud”—the rules for legal 
investigations and access to that data take on 
increased importance. In 2011, we will work to 
initiate dialogue among governments and other 
stakeholders to work toward achieving more 
alignment on legal and social policies in this 
area 

•  Privacy and online safety education: Mi-

crosoft will continue to speak with consumer 
audiences and public officials around the globe 
to build awareness of the technology tools and 
actions that can help improve safety and privacy 
for both individuals and organizations.   

•  Collaboration on cybercrime: We will con-

tinue to also advance important technologies, 
enforcement actions, and collaborative efforts to 
combat cybercrime. This will include continued 
actions through Project MARS, advancement 
of PhotoDNA implementation, and educational 
and capacity-building efforts to mitigate the 
effectiveness of online scams. Microsoft will also 
host Digital Crimes Consortium 2010, an event 
that brings together industry, academia, law 
enforcement, and government from around the 
world to advance collaborative efforts to combat 
digital crime.

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

51

Freedom of  
Expression Online 
Approach

Commitments & 
Progress

Privacy and Data Location

Societies worldwide recognize freedom of 
expression and privacy as fundamental hu-
man rights. Freedom of expression fosters 
civic engagement, promotes accountability, 
enriches societies, and develops individual 
potential. Privacy is a foundation for trust 
and confidence, both in governments and 
in technology services. Respecting and rec-
onciling these fundamental rights are both 
good citizenship and essential to fostering 
innovation, academic inquiry, economic 
development, and personal well-being.

In 2008, Microsoft helped form the Global 
Network Initiative (GNI), an organization 
dedicated to advancing Internet freedom. 
GNI was formed in collaboration with other 
leaders from industry, human rights organi-
zations, academics, and socially responsible 
investors and was launched to coincide with 
the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Dec-
laration of Human Rights. Microsoft is com-
mitted to the GNI’s principles and guidelines 
for business and is working to promote 
these principles and create opportunities for 
ongoing learning. 

The GNI informs our engagement in mar-
kets throughout the world. While we must 
adhere to local laws to which we are sub-
ject, legal compliance does not necessarily 
require absolute or reflexive deference to 
local authorities. If we disagree with govern-
ments, we try to find the most construc-
tive and pragmatic approach to sustain a 
principled stand. Sometimes that involves 
public statements of our views; other times 
we may find it more constructive to engage 
directly with the government. 

Microsoft has integrated support and 
responsibility for human rights, free expres-
sion, and privacy into our business opera-
tions. A cross-company senior management 
team oversees our efforts on our freedom 
of expression initiatives and is responsible 
for implementation of the GNI principles 
and guidelines. 

In 2009 Microsoft formalized some addi-
tional steps to help protect the privacy of 
customer data, including in the context of 
free expression. For example, we consider 
free expression and privacy when determin-
ing the markets where we will store cus-
tomer data. Before certain types of personal 
information can be hosted in a particular 
country, Microsoft undertakes a risk assess-
ment process. This includes an examina-
tion of the country concerned, including a 
review of its overall human rights situation 
and the rule of law, as well as specific laws, 
policies, and practices. Senior executive 
leadership reviews this assessment before 
approving a decision to locate the personal 
information in the country. 

Content Principles

In responding to restrictions on content and 
communications, Microsoft is committed to 
the GNI guidelines on freedom of expres-
sion, including those that relate to handling 
government demands to filter or remove 
access to content. We have also been work-
ing to audit and enhance our 2006 blog 
content principles with the goal of forming 
a core set of guidelines that can be applied 
to all Microsoft content services worldwide. 

Applying the Principles to Business  
Operations in China

Recognizing the particular interest that 
some of our stakeholders have concerning 
China, we note that as we finalize our prin-
ciples, we will apply them to China as we 
do to our business in the rest of the world. 
The decision to leave or enter a market is 
an important one, and we acknowledge 
that different companies will make different 
decisions. Microsoft continues to offer cer-
tain online services, such as Bing, to citizens 
in China. This requires that we grapple with 
censorship laws and requests. We believe 
that continuing to offer these services while 
following a principled approach is right for 
citizens because it widens free access to 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

information, promotes the role of informa-
tion technology in society, and advances 
rule of law. 

Other specific plans for the coming year 
include:

52

We continually review the overall value of 
our services in China and in other markets. 
We do not believe that advances toward a 
freer Internet will result simply because we 
are doing business there. Instead, we oper-
ate in China in a manner that both respects 
local authority and culture and makes clear 
that we have differences of opinion with 
official content management policies. We 
do so both in our direct dialogue with the 
government and in promoting mutual 
understanding between U.S. and Chinese 
industries and governments. In December 
2009, for the third time, we helped convene 
the annual U.S.-China Internet Industry Fo-
rum, gathering U.S. and Chinese academ-
ics, industry, and government officials for 
precisely this sort of dialogue. 

Microsoft believes that this is a responsible 
approach and will continue to advocate for 
policies and enforcement that protect indi-
vidual online users, foster a healthy online 
ecosystem, and promote free expression 
and privacy online. 

Outlook

In the coming year, Microsoft will continue 
efforts to help build the GNI as a source of 
expertise on Internet freedom issues and 
to help its principles and guidelines take 
root globally. Microsoft will work with the 
GNI to help it better communicate and 
engage with people around the world who 
are interested in the issues related to free 
expression online. The GNI will soon publish 
a report to the public, and it will hold issue 
discussions and roundtables throughout the 
coming year.

Microsoft also plans to complete the initial 
phase of our internal implementation of the 
GNI guidelines and to prepare for an inde-
pendent assessment of our work to date. 
We will continue our efforts to advocate 
for sound public policies, including through 
exchanges that seek to promote dialogue 
and understanding among nations.

•  Using Microsoft products and services to 

enable new forms of civic engagement. For 
example, Microsoft Townhall is a software 
suite that helps political candidates and issue 
advocates get online, discuss issues, drive 
awareness, and engage with the public. 
Through the CampaignReady website, we 
will continue to aggregate information on 
Townhall and provide other resources to help 
campaigns communicate freely and succeed. 

•  Empowering governments to be more open, 
transparent, and connected to the citizens 
they serve. By building privacy and security 
into our cloud offerings, for example, we 
hope that governments will be more willing 
to expand the ways in which they connect 
with citizens, such as making official data 
available online. As an example, Microsoft will 
be part of a project, along with the Inter-
American Development Bank, to help Haiti 
put data about reconstruction efforts online 
and in the open. 

•  Expanding engagement with nongovern-
mental organizations that are focused on 
promoting independent media, bloggers, 
and journalists. For many, the personal com-
puter and online services are the essential 
tools with which they do their work. Orga-
nizations that support the media can, we 
believe, benefit from resources and guidance 
to help make their computers more secure; 
to help ensure that they have legal, secure 
software on those computers; and to help 
protect themselves online. We also hope to 
make software donations and other support 
available where we can. 

•  Helping convene the fourth U.S.-China Inter-
net Industry Forum in Beijing in November 
2010. We expect participation from senior 
U.S. and Chinese government officials, in-
dustry leaders, and academics. The event will 
create an environment for constructive and 
candid dialogue on key Internet policy issues, 
including privacy, cybercrime, e-commerce, 
and freedom of expression.

  Operating Responsibly

53

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Governance & Compliance

Microsoft conduct as a compa-
ny is guided by a set of corpo-
rate values. First among them is 
“integrity and honesty.” To help 
us live up to our values, we 
have embedded strong corpo-
rate governance practices and 
a culture of compliance into all 
areas of our business.

responsible decision making. In FY2010, 
Microsoft continued to strengthen exist-
ing governance practices and developed 
new policies that make Microsoft a better 
company. Initiatives introduced in the past 
year include Board adoption of “Say on Pay,” 
a policy that enables Microsoft shareholders 
to cast a non-binding, advisory vote every 
three years on the compensation programs 
for our executive officers, and the right of 
shareholders to call special meetings.

Compliance &  
Responsible  
Competition

We manage our business in compliance 
with our corporate policies as well as the 
laws and regulations of the geographies in 
which we do business. The Microsoft Office 
of Legal Compliance is responsible for en-
suring our compliance and ethical conduct, 
thereby reinforcing our commitment to in-
tegrity and corporate responsibility. Central 
to this work are the Microsoft Standards of 
Business Conduct, to which every employee 
must adhere. 

Corporate  
Governance

Corporate governance at Microsoft is led by 
the Governance and Nominating Commit-
tee of the Board of Directors and by our 
Lead Independent Director. Compliance is 
led by Microsoft General Counsel, who is 
also our Chief Compliance Officer. 

Corporate  
Governance

Corporate governance at Microsoft is 
used to promote the long-term interests 
of our shareholders, as well as to maintain 
internal checks and balances, strengthen 
management accountability, and foster 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

54

Corporate  
Governance
Approach

Microsoft has a strong track record of 
leadership in corporate governance and 
has earned top rankings from indepen-
dent advisory and ratings firms. We know 
that good governance practices can help 
engender public trust and confidence. 
We employ a thoughtful approach that is 
guided by long-term thinking, account-
ability of management to shareholders 
and other stakeholders, and a desire to set 
industry-leading standards. This approach 
is encapsulated in the Microsoft Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, which we review on 
an ongoing basis. 

Commitments & 
Progress

During FY2010 Microsoft outperformed 99 
percent of S&P 500 companies and all com-
panies in our sector for corporate gover-
nance, as measured by Institutional Share-
holder Services, a leading independent 
ratings firm. These achievements reflect the 
outcome of our focus on identifying good 
governance practices that best serve the 
interests of Microsoft and its shareholders. 

Board of Directors

Shareholders elect the Microsoft Board of 
Directors to oversee management and to 
ensure that the long-term interests of the 
company are served. Through oversight, 
review, and counsel, the Board establishes 
and promotes Microsoft business and or-
ganizational objectives. The Board oversees 
the company’s business affairs and integrity, 
works with management to determine the 
company’s mission and long-term strategy, 
performs the annual chief executive officer 
(CEO) evaluation, oversees CEO succession 
planning, establishes internal control over 
financial reporting, and assesses company 
risks and strategies for risk mitigation. 

In FY2010 there were no new appointments 
to the Board. Dr. James I. Cash retired from 
the Board and did not stand for reelection 
at the November 2009 annual shareholder 
meeting. Through FY2010 all five Board 
committees (Antitrust Compliance, Audit, 
Compensation, Finance, Governance and 
Nominating) consisted solely of inde-
pendent directors, who provide objective 
oversight of the company’s management 
and direction. Raymond V. Gilmartin acted 
as the Lead Independent Director.

Board of Directors, FY2010

Number of Board members

9

Percentage of independent 
directors

78%

Number of Board committees

5

Independence of directors 
serving on Board committees

100%

Separate Chairman and CEO

Yes, since 2000

Lead Independent Director

Yes, since 2004

Annual Board, committee, and 
individual member evaluta-
tions

Number of Board meetings 
held

Yes

7

Shareholders 

Microsoft recognizes that accountability and 
responsiveness to shareholders makes us a 
stronger company. 

Our ongoing approach to executive com-
pensation involves building a strong link 
between pay and performance and making 
sure that we provide incentives for appro-
priate risk taking. To support these objec-
tives, Microsoft:

•  Proactively adopted a “Say on Pay” policy, 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

which was approved by shareholders. Under 
this policy, shareholders have the opportunity 
to cast an advisory vote every three years on 
the compensation of executive officers. The 
first vote took place at the November 2009 
annual meeting; almost 99 percent of the 
votes received supported current compensa-
tion policies 

Engagement of shareholders also continued 
to be a focus in FY2010. We actively en-
gaged with investors on corporate gover-
nance issues, including investors represent-
ing about 30 percent of shares outstanding 
and those representing the socially respon-
sible investment community. 

55

We Said We Would

We Have

Continue to act as  
an industry leader in  
corporate governance.

Out-performed 99 percent of S&P 500 
companies in FY2010, as measured by a 
leading independent ratings firm

Maintain the  
independence of the 
Board of Directors

Retained seven independent board 
members out of a total of nine Board 
positions in FY2010

Achieve greater diversity 
on the Board of Directors 

Exceeded the average percentage of 
women Board members for S&P 500 
companies, with 22 percent of Board 
members being women

Maintain and increase 
our dialogue with  
shareholders

Corresponded with representatives of 
our 50 largest investors (carried out by 
the Lead Independent Director)

•  Added stronger policies to claw back execu-
tive compensation in circumstances that 
involve restated financial or nonfinancial met-
rics, even if no improper conduct is involved 

•  Adopted a policy that prohibits the Microsoft 
Board and executive officers from hedging 
their ownership of Microsoft stock, including 
trading in publicly traded options, puts, calls, 
or other derivative instruments related to 
Microsoft stock or debt 

•  Changed our policy for reimbursement of 
certain relocation benefits if an executive 
leaves Microsoft within two years of com-
mencing employment

Microsoft shareholders also supported a 
Board-sponsored proposal to amend our 
articles of incorporation to give our share-
holders the right to call special shareholder 
meetings. The proposal received a vote of 
over 99 percent of votes cast (and 85 per-
cent of shares entitled to vote). 

Reached out to our largest investors 
and public pension funds (carried out 
by members of management); together 
these investors hold about 30 percent 
of shares outstanding

Regularly contributed to governance-
focused blogs on Microsoft on the 
Issues

In September 2009, our Board of 
Directors strengthened its commit-
ment to strong corporate governance 
by adopting a Say-on-Pay policy that 
enables our shareholders to provide 
direct feedback to us on our executive 
compensation policies and practices. 
Under the policy, our shareholders were 
given the opportunity to cast a non-
binding, advisory vote every three years 
on the compensation programs for our 
executive officers. The first vote took 
place at our November 2009 annual 
shareholders’ meeting where nearly 
99% of the votes cast supported our 
executive compensation practices.

Find more facts and figures about Microsoft Corpo-
rate Governance on the Microsoft Investor Relations 
website at http://www.microsoft.com/IR.

FY2010 Shareholder Data

Adopt Say-on-Pay

Shares of Microsoft common stock 
outstanding (as of July 20, 2010)

8,653,567,331

Registered holders of record of 
common stock (as of July 20, 
2010)

138,568

Directors elected by the vote of a 
majority of votes cast in uncon-
tested elections

Yes

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

56

Outlook

In FY2011 Microsoft anticipates that areas of 
focus will be:

•  Implementing the newly adopted regula-

tion and disclosure requirements as outlined 
in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act.  

•  Continuing to find additional ways to facili-

tate dialogue between shareholders and the 
company. 

•  Engaging in cross-industry dialogues, such as 
the Conference Board Governance Center, to 
help us identify and contribute to the devel-
opment of best practices.  

•  Examining how we manage enterprise and 
external risk and the evolving role and in-
volvement of the Board in risk management. 

Compliance &  
Responsible  
Competition  
Approach

Microsoft knows that how we conduct 
ourselves and our business is as important 
as delivering quality products and services. 
We aim to be open about our business 
operations, transparent in our dealings with 
stakeholders, and compliant with the laws 
and regulations that apply to our business. 
We strive to exceed legal requirements by 
conducting our business ethically, responsi-
bly, and with integrity.

Every Microsoft employee is required to 
participate in training regarding the Micro-
soft Standards of Business Conduct. This is 
a collective commitment to ethical business 
behavior and to legal and regulatory com-
pliance. Additionally, our 62,000 contrac-
tors, suppliers, and vendors are guided by 
our Vendor Code of Conduct, which re-
quires compliance with Microsoft standards, 
values, and practices. The Vendor Code of 
Conduct is available in 35 languages. 

The Microsoft Office of Legal Compliance 
also partners with the Microsoft Sales, Mar-
keting, and Services Group to run a world-
wide compliance committee and regional 
compliance committees that help promote 
a culture of compliance throughout the 
business. All Microsoft employees have 
access to the Microsoft Integrity website 
and toll-free telephone numbers that can 
be used to report misconduct or discuss 
compliance or ethics concerns. 

Microsoft does not tolerate any kind of 
bribery or corruption. Every employee is 
expected to comply with the Microsoft 
Standards of Business Conduct and receives 
training on ethical conduct and environ-
mental practices as part of new employee 
orientation.

Microsoft is also committed to competing 
responsibly. We continue to believe that 
customers should be able to select the best 
technology tool for their needs. We pro-

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

57

mote interoperability so that hardware and 
software from various vendors can work 
well together. We work with other develop-
ers—including the open source commu-
nity—to develop interoperable solutions, 
share intellectual property to stimulate 
innovation, and participate in industry orga-
nizations and communities. 

Microsoft Interoperability and Respon-
sible Competition initiatives are led by the 
Interoperability Strategy Group within our 
Legal and Corporate Affairs Department.

To view the Microsoft Vendor Code of Conduct go to 
http://www.microsoft.com/citizenshipreport

Commitments & 
Progress

We Said We Would

We Have

Provide training on Microsoft 
Standards of Business Conduct

Trained over 99 percent of em-
ployees in FY2010

Be inclusive of multiple topics 
in the Standards of Business 
Conduct training

Make the Microsoft Standards 
of Business Conduct available 
in multiple languages

Included training topics such 
as anticorruption, conflicts of 
interest, and financial integrity in 
FY2010

Provided the document in eight 
languages: Chinese (Simplified), 
Chinese (Traditional), English, 
French, Japanese, Korean, Rus-
sian, and Spanish

Antitrust Compliance

In late 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice 
(DOJ) declared in court that the Microsoft 
work on documenting various Windows 
protocols was substantially complete. This 
recognition by the DOJ of the accomplish-
ments of our protocol documentation 
teams is an important step in our compli-
ance with the consent decree that terminat-
ed the competition lawsuit against Microsoft 
brought in the late 1990s.

In December 2009, the European Commis-
sion and Microsoft arrived at a resolution 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

58

on a number of long-standing competition 
law issues. Microsoft made a legally bind-
ing commitment that personal computer 
manufacturers and users will continue to 
be able to install any browser on Windows, 
make any browser the default browser, 
and turn access to Internet Explorer on or 
off. In addition, Microsoft agreed to use 
Windows Update to provide a browser 
choice screen to Windows users in Europe 
who are running Internet Explorer as their 
default browser. This browser choice screen 
presents a list of browsers and provides 
links to learn more about them and install 
them. The design and operation of this 
choice screen was worked out in the course 
of extensive discussions with the Commis-
sion and is reflected in the commitment that 
Microsoft made. Starting on March 1, 2010, 
users who received the choice screen were 
free to choose any browser or to keep the 
browser that they have, as they prefer. The 
browser choice screen software update is 
also being offered as an automatic down-
load through Windows Update for Windows 
XP, Windows Vista®, and Windows 7. 

Microsoft compliance with antitrust rulings 
is overseen by the Board of Directors and 
particularly the Antitrust Compliance Com-
mittee. 

Responsible Competition 

Microsoft has articulated its commitment 
to responsible competition and interoper-
ability in a series of principles, including the 
following:

•  Windows Principles: For the past four years, 
we have followed these principles to ensure 
that Windows continues to foster competi-
tion and innovation in the marketplace.  

•  Interoperability Principles: Two years ago, 
Microsoft created a set of specific Interopera-
bility Principles. The Interoperability Principles 
include ensuring open connections, promot-
ing data portability, enhancing support for 
industry standards, and fostering more open 
engagement with customers and the indus-
try, including open source communities.

We have implemented these principles 
broadly in the design of Microsoft products, 

the technical information that we make 
available about them to foster interoper-
ability, the licenses to Microsoft intellectual 
property that we make available, the “plug-
fest” that we organize to test interoperabil-
ity with other vendors’ products, and the 
feedback that we solicit from customers, the 
developer community, and others.

In FY2010, Microsoft released Windows 7, 
the latest version of our flagship operating 
system product. Windows 7 was designed 
and is licensed in full compliance with the 
consent decree and the Windows Principles.

We also took a big step forward in FY2010 
in releasing thousands of pages of updated 
technical information regarding Microsoft 
products that is useful for interoperability. 
This includes a broad range of interopera-
bility information relating to Microsoft Office 
2010, including extensive documentation on 
how Office 2010 implements the industry-
standard Open XML document formats. 
This information will help other developers 
build interoperable solutions to work with 
Office 2010. 

We also substantially strengthened our 
participation with standards organizations 
in FY2010. Microsoft personnel are now 
contributing ideas and technology to a 
range of standard organizations throughout 
the world.

Outlook

Over the course of the next year, Microsoft 
will continue to work closely with govern-
ments in the United States and Europe 
to ensure continued compliance with the 
various obligations we have assumed in 
resolving competition law concerns. We will 
continue to focus on preparing and releas-
ing technical information about Microsoft 
products (especially new products as they 
are developed) to foster interoperability. We 
are continuing to strengthen our support 
for important industry standards in Internet 
Explorer, with a new release now under 
development.

  Operating Responsibly

59

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

Public Policy

Microsoft engages with gov-
ernments around the world as 
part of the daily work of our 
business and Citizenship ef-
forts. We engage on public 
policy issues that are core to 
our business. We believe that 
our engagement serves our 
business interests and also cre-
ates stronger, more informed 
public policies in the places 
where we operate. 

We exercise constant vigilance to be ethi-
cal, open-minded, and transparent in our 
policy and political interactions. We aim to 
contribute to the democratic exchange of 
ideas and to uphold the expectations of 
our stakeholders and the interests of our 
shareholders. 

Our engagement in public policy is led by 
our Corporate Vice President and Deputy 
General Counsel, Global Corporate Affairs.

 
Public Policy Agenda
Approach

Public policy and public policy debates have 
a significant effect on our business and 
on the societal issues in which we invest. 
Microsoft engages with governments and 
political stakeholders on policy issues that 
we believe have a major impact on our 
business, our employees, and our commu-
nities. We also engage on issues to which 
we feel, given our core competencies, we 
can make a unique contribution and help 
inform the policy conversation. 

Throughout this engagement, we are mind-
ful to engage responsibly and thought-
fully—considering the effects of policy not 
just on our business, but also on society. 
As in previous years, in FY2010 Microsoft 
adopted and published a public policy 
agenda that highlights our views on key 
policy issues and guides our engagement. 
We believe that there are the three crucial 
areas in which government policies can 
help the global economy and communities 
worldwide realize the benefits of informa-
tion technology (IT). 

•  Strengthening economies: Microsoft ad-

vocates for policies that promote long-term 
investment in jobs and innovation, includ-
ing those that promote direct government 
investment in IT, incentives for basic research, 
government choice in IT procurement, and 
incentives and rewards for the development 
and enforcement of intellectual property 
rights. 

•  Addressing societal challenges: We 

engage with policymakers to highlight the 
critical role technology can play in improv-
ing access to quality health care, improving 
education, expanding worker retraining 
opportunities, improving energy use and 
efficiency, and helping governments become 
more transparent and effective. 

•  Promoting a healthy online ecosystem: 
We actively advocate for policies that sup-
port a safe Internet for consumers; secure 
cloud computing; online privacy; uniformity 
of laws across jurisdictions regarding user 
choice, interoperability, and free expression; 
competitive markets for search and advertis-

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

ing; and increased access for people with 
disabilities. 

60

The Microsoft public policy agenda and additional 
information on areas of policy focus are available on 
the Microsoft Corporate Citizenship website at http://
microsoft.com/publicpolicy.

Commitments & 
Progress

Strengthening Economies

The technology industry, including Micro-
soft and our partners, is a major driver of 
jobs and innovation globally. We are work-
ing with governments around the world to 
find ways to spur job creation and innova-
tion. In FY2010, we did this in a number of 
ways, including the following:

•  Microsoft Chief Research and Strategy Officer 
Craig Mundie served on President Obama’s 
Council of Advisors on Science and Technol-
ogy, working with the administration, educa-
tors, and other industry leaders to develop 
U.S. innovation policy.  

•  We partnered with governments and agen-
cies to implement workforce development 
programs such as Britain Works and Elevate 
America to provide workers with training 
in the technology skills that they need for 
twenty-first century jobs.  

•  In November, President Obama launched 
Educate to Innovate, a national initiative to 
inspire students to develop science, technol-
ogy, engineering, and math (STEM) skills. 
Microsoft partnered with the administration 
on this initiative, providing support for STEM 
education, including STEM-related video 
games for 12 to 16 year olds. 

Addressing Societal Challenges

In the United States, much of FY2010 was 
dominated by debate over the future of 
health care. This led to the health-care re-
form bill that was signed into law in March 
2010. As this bill took shape, Microsoft 
engaged with policymakers to find ways 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

61

that technology could expand access to 
health care and decrease the cost of health-
care delivery. This work was started with the 
2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act, which authorized about $20 billion in 
stimulus funding to spur adoption of tech-
nology by health-care providers.

The final health-care reform package 
continued to recognize technology as a 
fundamental pathway to the future success 
of the U.S. health-care delivery system. The 
basic framework of the new law promotes 
innovation and the use of technology to 
deliver on the promise of reform—evolving 
our nation’s health to drive better deci-
sion-making, broad-scale innovation, and 
consumer focus so that everyone can take 
advantage of advances in medicine, includ-
ing more personalized care. The Recovery 
Act and health-care reform law are the 
initial steps in a longer path to meaningful 
and sustained changes to health care, and 
Microsoft will continue to participate in the 
process of implementing these laws.

Beyond the United States, Microsoft worked 
with governments to examine how tech-
nology could be used to promote better 
access to health care. Among these ef-
forts, in October 2009, Microsoft Research 
convened the mHealth Summit to discuss 
how the world’s 6.5 billion people can gain 
access to better health care with the assis-
tance of mobile technology. More than 650 
researchers and policymakers attended and 
exchanged ideas to encourage the devel-
opment and deployment of practical, af-
fordable, and effective technology solutions 
to health-care challenges in underserved 
and resource-poor populations. 

Promoting a Healthy Online Ecosystem

The future of cloud computing is depen-
dent upon government action to create 
a robust legal framework for privacy and 
security that protects and provides user 
rights and benefits online. Microsoft lead-
ers, including Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, 
engaged in numerous forums in FY2010 to 
ensure that policy leaders understand the 
challenges and opportunities inherent in 
the cloud. 

In January 2010, Microsoft General Counsel 
Brad Smith gave a speech at the Brook-
ings Institution in Washington, D.C., outlin-
ing specific legislative steps that the U.S. 
government should take to prepare for the 
future of the cloud. These included:

•  Updating the Electronic Communications 

Privacy Act to better protect online commu-
nications. 

•  Reforming the Computer Fraud and Abuse 
Act to develop stronger protections against 
cyber attacks.

We also continue to broadly engage with 
policymakers—several times testifying 
before congressional committees—to more 
broadly address Internet safety and security 
concerns. In February 2010, the U.S. House 
of Representatives took a step forward in 
cybersecurity by passing the Cybersecurity 
Enhancement Act. The bill would devote 
resources to developing the skills and tools 
necessary to counter cyber threats. Al-
though the bill has not yet been passed by 
the Senate, we are hopeful that this bill will 
progress and Congress will begin to put in 
stronger mechanisms for keeping Internet 
users safe online. 

To further these and other legislative efforts 
to create a safer Internet, Microsoft is col-
laborating with industry peers. For example, 
in March 2010, Microsoft became a found-
ing member of the Digital Due Process 
(DDP) coalition to encourage the U.S. Con-
gress to update the Electronic Communica-
tions Privacy Act (ECPA) to give consumer 
data online the same protections given to 
data stored offline. 

Outlook

In FY2010, Microsoft participated in signifi-
cant policy advancements to strengthen 
economies, address societal challenges, 
and promote a healthy online ecosystem. 
In FY2011, we will continue to focus heavily 
on working with governments to put in 
place the critical protections to help keep all 
Internet users safe online and to enable the 
continued growth and use of the Internet 
and cloud computing. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

62

Advocacy
Approach

Microsoft and our employees engage in 
the political process in the countries and 
regions in which we operate to promote 
our business interests, share our knowledge 
and expertise, and create public policies 
that support our business and benefit soci-
ety. We have strict principles that guide our 
political engagement in an ethically respon-
sible and transparent manner. 

and the software industry. MSPAC is a bi-
partisan organization that contributes to the 
campaigns of federal, state, and local candi-
dates. MSPAC typically supports candidates 
who share Microsoft views on public policy, 
serve as congressional or legislative leaders, 
represent districts or states where Microsoft 
has a major business presence, or serve on 
committees that have jurisdiction over legis-
lation that is important to the company.

For the last calendar year (2009), MSPAC 
made political contributions totaling 
$887,160. 

Commitments & 
Progress

U.S. Political Principles

Our engagement in the political process in 
the United States is governed by ten politi-
cal principles. These include:

•  Political spending will reflect the company’s 
interests and be used to further its public 
policy agenda and not the personal agenda 
of individual officers, directors, or employees.  

•  Microsoft does not make corporate contri-
butions to any noncandidate or nonparty 
political committee organized under section 
527 of the Internal Revenue Code.  

•  No campaign contributions are given in 

anticipation of, in recognition of, or in return 
for an official act. 

The principles are available on the Microsoft Corporate 
Citizenship website at http://www.microsoft.com/advo-
cacy. These principles are reviewed regularly and were 
most recently updated in June 2010.

Political Contributions

The Microsoft Political Action Committee 
(MSPAC) helps Microsoft employees and 
shareholders participate in the U.S. political 
process and jointly support public policy 
positions that are important to Microsoft 

Microsoft Political Actions Committee  
2009* Contributions

$451,000

$317,950

$500

$400

$300

$200

$100

S
D
N
A
S
U
O
H
T
N

I

S
L
A
T
O
T

$118,210

STATE  
CANDIDATE

FEDERAL & STATE 
COMMITEE

FEDERAL  
CANDIDATE

L
A
T
O
T

887,160

*This represents calendar year 2009 contributions 

 
 
*This represents calendar year 2009 contributions 

In addition to the contributions made by 
MSPAC, Microsoft as a company contrib-
uted $233,182 to state and local political 
campaigns in 2009. 

Microsoft does not support political candi-
dates or campaigns outside of the United 
States. 

Lobbying

In compliance with regulations and our 
commitment to transparency, Microsoft 
regularly files reports detailing our lobbying 
activities. 

FY2010 Lobbying Expenditures  
Contributions

Jurisdiction

Total Expenditure

United States (Federal)

$6,750,000

United States (State)

$2,480,000

European Commission &  
Parliament

$1,370,000

U.S. Trade Association & Business  
Coalition Memberships

Microsoft is a member of a number of trade 
associations and business coalitions in the 
United States that help us work collectively 
with industry peers to advance issues that 
affect our business and society.

A full list of our memberships is available on the 
Microsoft Corporate Citizenship website at http://www.
microsoft.com/advocacy

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

The following are the trade associations to 
which our Corporate and Regulatory Affairs 
Group contributed $100,000 or more in 
calendar year 2010. 

63

•  Association for Competitive Technology
•  Business Software Alliance
•  Information Tech Industry Council
•  US Chamber of Commerce
•  International Association of Microsoft  

Certified Partners Inc.
•  Washington Roundtable
•  Business Roundtable

Outlook

As part of our strong commitment to re-
sponsible and transparent business prac-
tices, Microsoft seeks to be open about our 
dealings with all stakeholders and about our 
direct and indirect engagement in the po-
litical process. We have been recognized as 
a leader for our political disclosure policies 
by the Center for Political Accountability, a 
nonprofit, nonpartisan organization based 
in Washington, D.C., that promotes corpo-
rate political transparency and account-
ability. We have strong internal controls to 
ensure that our engagement in the political 
process seeks to advance legitimate busi-
ness goals, and to preclude the opportu-
nity for undue influence by any individual 
employee. 

In FY2011 Microsoft will continue to work 
with a range of stakeholders, including 
investors and advocates, to advance the 
principles of openness, transparency, and 
accountability. We welcome the opportunity 
to work with other corporations as they 
seek to advance openness, and we will con-
tinue to regularly review  our own policies 
and our relationships with external groups 
to make sure that they are consistent with 
our values and our commitment to respon-
sible and transparent business practices.  

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

64

About This Report

This report covers Microsoft 
nonfinancial performance and 
impact. It was published on 
September 30, 2010, at the 
same time as our Fiscal Year 
2010 (FY2010) annual financial 
report. It provides an account 
of Microsoft global Citizen-
ship work and the social and 
environmental impact of our 
business. The reporting period 
covers July 2009 to June 2010.

To view the Global Reporting Initiative Index go 
to www.microsoft.com/citizenshipreport

In compiling this report, we have been 
guided by the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 
We provide additional GRI-related infor-
mation through the data provider OneRe-
port®. These data and additional reporting, 
including our annual United Nations Global 
Compact Communication on Progress, an-
nual update on our activities related to the 
UN Millennium Development Goals, and 
annual submissions to the Carbon Disclo-
sure Project, are available on the Microsoft 
Corporate Citizenship website at http://
www.microsoft.com/citizenship. 

In response to heightened stakeholder 
interest, we intend to report annually in 
September going forward. In FY2010 we 
have also started a process to enhance the 
scope, depth, and quality of information 

provided, as well as our method of assess-
ing material issues. In FY2010 this report 
was authored and reviewed by internal 
Microsoft stakeholders only. However, we 
acknowledge the value of third-party report 
review, verification, and assurance, and we 
will seek additional insight and feedback as 
we author future reports. 

This report aims to present pertinent 
information about the global business of 
Microsoft (particularly Microsoft Corpora-
tion and major subsidiaries, as described in 
our 2010 10-K filing), as well as to report 
on important social, environmental, and 
economic impacts. This report should be 
reviewed alongside the FY2010 Microsoft 
annual financial report, which provides 
additional facts, figures, and analysis. This 
report represents a significant enhancement 
in our nonfinancial reporting compared to 
previous years. Moving forward, Microsoft 
is committed to continued year-on-year 
improvement in the way we measure and 
report our performance against our Citizen-
ship efforts. 

In addition to this annual Citizenship Report, 
many of the Microsoft field offices in more 
than 100 countries/regions also publish 
information that is relevant to their local 
stakeholders and markets. Other examples 
of how we continually report on and evalu-
ate Microsoft Citizenship include:

•  Direct dialogues with stakeholder groups, 

as well as with industry and issue-advocacy 
organizations. 

•  Updates to our website and blogs to reflect 

recent initiatives and progress. 

•  Research and white papers on specific focus 

areas. 

•  Economic impact data and hundreds of  
case studies through the Microsoft Local 
Impact Map.  

 
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

65

•  OneReport® (download at http://www.

microsoft.com/citizenshipreport) 

•  An annual Communication of Progress to the 
United Nations Global Compact and on the 
UN Millennium Development Goals.

Information, Feedback, and Concerns
For more information on the Citizenship initiatives and 
programs described in this report, visit the Microsoft 
Corporate Citizenship website at http://www.microsoft.
com/citizenship.

To provide feedback on this report or to contact the 
Microsoft Citizenship team, send an email message to 
mcitizen@microsoft.com, or write to Microsoft Corpo-
rate Citizenship, Microsoft Corporation, One Microsoft 
Way, Redmond, WA 98052, USA.

To report concerns about Microsoft reporting, internal 
controls and procedures, auditing matters, or other 
corporate matters, contact the Microsoft Board of 
Directors at askboard@microsoft.com, or write to 
Microsoft Corporate Secretary, Microsoft Corporation, 
One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052, USA. 

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

This document is provided “as-is”. Information and views expressed in this document, in-
cluding URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear 
the risk of using it. 

66

This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in 
any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference 
purposes. 

© 2010 Microsoft. All rights reserved. 
Microsoft, Bing, BizSpark, DreamSpark, Forefront, Hohm, Hotmail, Internet Explorer, Kinect, Kodu, Mediaroom, 
Microsoft Dynamics, Mouse Mischief, MSN, MultiPoint, Outlook, PhotoDNA, Silverlight, SQL Azure, SQL Server, 
Visual Studio, Windows, Windows Azure, Windows Live, Windows Server, Windows Vista, Xbox 360, Xbox LIVE, 
and Zune are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. All other trademarks are property of their respec-
tive owners.

2010 Corporate Citizenship Report
2010 Corporate Citizenship Report

67
67

PLEASE RECYCLE

Thank You.

Printed on Mohawk Options Cover and Text Paper
This paper is FSC certified and made with 100% Post-Consumer Waste Fiber,
Carbon-neutral and process-chlorine free, Green-e certified windpower.

