To  access  This  informaTion  online,  visiT:   
W W W. m i cr os o f T.co m/ m s co r P/ci T i Zen sh i P

© 2005 microsoft corporation. all rights reserved. microsoft, BizTalk, msn, Windows, Windows media, Windows server, and Xbox 
are either registered trademarks or trademarks of microsoft corporation in the United states and/or other countries. The names of 
actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. Part no. 098-104003

About This Report

Reporting Scope and Structure

Our citizenship reporting reflects the structure of our Global Citizenship Initiative and 

related activities because we want our stakeholders — employees, customers, partners, 

shareholders, and others — to be able to compare our program goals and objectives with 

our results. Our report is a combination of two components: the following thematic print 

volume and a more expansive and comprehensive online publication. The thematic print 

volume highlights and provides an overview of some key citizenship issues the company 

addressed in the last fiscal year. The more comprehensive version of the report is an 

online publication that we will update on a rolling basis throughout the year. In the online 

portion of this report, we have included references to applicable Global Report Initiative 

(GRI) performance indicators to assist stakeholders in their review and assessment of our 

Global Citizenship Initiative. (More information about the GRI performance indicators 

is available at http://www.globalreporting.org.) The function of the GRI performance 

indicators is to provide information about the economic, environmental, and social 

impacts of organizations in a manner that enhances comparability between reports and 

organizations. In addition, both the print and online components of the report provide 

key links to more detailed information on Microsoft.com, Microsoft’s corporate Web site.

Reporting Period

This report focuses on Microsoft’s fiscal year 2005 (which began July 1, 2004, and 

ended June 30, 2005). All data are for that period unless otherwise noted.

Currency

All money figures in this report are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

Terminology

The terms “Global Citizenship” and “Corporate Citizenship,” which are 

used throughout this report, are interchangeable with similar terms such 

as “Corporate Social Responsibility” and “Corporate Sustainability.”

More information about the GRI performance indicators is available at  

http://www.globalreporting.org/.   

This report is printed on New Leaf 

Opaque 100, White, 80 lb. cover 

and 80 lb. text, which are made 

with process-chlorine-free 100% 

post-consumer waste fiber. 

New Leaf Paper is an FSC certified  

paper broker. 

Printed on paper containing 100% 

post-consumer waste.

Microsoft Corporation

One Microsoft Way

Redmond, WA 98052-8300 USA

Phone: 425.882.8080

www.microsoft.com

Microsoft Asia Pacific

1 Marina Boulevard #22–01, Singapore 018989

Phone: 65.6882.8899

www.microsoft.com/asia

Microsoft Greater China

19/F, Millennium Tower, 38 Xiaoyun Road

Chaoyang, Beijing 100027, P.R. China

Phone: 86.10.8453.8585

www.microsoft.com/china

Microsoft Japan

Odakyu Southern Tower, 2-2-1 Yoyogi

Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8583, Japan

Phone: 81.3.5454.8000

www.microsoft.com/japan

Microsoft Europe, Middle East & Africa

Coeur Défense, Tour B–37e étage

100, Esplanade du Général de Gaulle

92932 Paris La Défense Cédex France

Phone: 33.1.70.99.10.00

www.microsoft.com/emea

Microsoft Latin America

6740 North Andrews Avenue, Suite 400

Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309-2136 USA

Phone: 954.489.4800

www.microsoft.com/latam

Microsoft Canada

1950 Meadowvale Boulevard

Mississauga, Ontario L5N 8L9 Canada

Phone: 905.568.0434

www.microsoft.com/canada

Table of Contents

Executive Welcome  .................................................................... 2

A Global Citizen ........................................................................... 4

Global Citizenship at Microsoft  ................................................ 6

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices..................... 8

Improving Security and Internet Safety ................................ 18

Advancing the Knowledge Economy ..................................... 26

Our Company  ............................................................................ 34

Looking to the Future ............................................................... 36

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Executive Welcome       

Executive Welcome

“The power of computing enables 

people to pursue their passions and 

realize their potential, no matter who 

they are. Through global citizenship 

efforts and local partnerships, 

one of the ways we are helping to 

strengthen communities is to extend 

the benefits of technology to the 

people that can benefit most.”

—  Bill Gates, Microsoft Chairman  

and Chief Software Architect

In 2005, we’re celebrating Microsoft’s 30th anniversary. 
Over the past three decades, our software products have 
enabled hundreds of millions of people to fulfill their 
personal and professional goals. We’re proud of everything 
we have accomplished, but we haven’t done it alone.

From the beginning, we have built our business through 
partnerships with approximately 650,000 companies, and 
we’re expanding our global citizenship efforts through the 
same kind of proactive collaboration with other industry 
leaders, governments, community-based organizations, 
and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). None 
of our achievements would be possible without the 
extraordinary efforts of our employees. Not only do 
they work hard every day to make Microsoft a successful 
business, they also contribute their time, expertise, and 
personal resources to many of our citizenship efforts.

In the course of our work, we meet often with government, 
NGO, and community leaders worldwide, and during our 
discussions one theme always emerges: their passion and 
drive to create opportunities for their citizens, for local 
businesses and industries, and for the communities they 
serve. At Microsoft, we share this passion for creating 
opportunities, and it is our mission to enable people and 
businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential.

That’s why we have made a commitment to provide 
technology access and skills training to a quarter billion people 
by 2010 — people previously underserved by technology. 
It’s why we collaborate with law enforcement agencies and 
officials worldwide to keep children safe online, and why we 
work hard to make our software more secure from viruses, 
worms, and other malicious attacks. And it’s why we have 
created a culture of accountability at Microsoft to help ensure 
that all of our business relationships and transactions exemplify 
the respect and integrity we have built into our core values.

But no matter how far-reaching our overall goals may be, they 
always come down to empowering one person at a time.

Whether we’re working with community-based organizations 
and NGOs in China to increase employment opportunities for 
unskilled migrant workers, partnering with law enforcement 
officials in Canada to develop a customized system that helps 
police fight computer-facilitated crimes against children, 
collaborating in Latin America with the Organization of 
American States and its affiliate The Trust for the Americas 
to help people with disabilities gain the skills they need to 
start their own businesses and find employment, or working 
with leading companies and community organizations in 
Europe on a grants program to help small and medium-
sized enterprises improve productivity through technology, 
our commitment is the same:  to make it possible for 
people to use technology to improve their lives.

We are working every day to ensure Microsoft’s 
continuing evolution as a global corporate citizen, and 
to create new opportunities for people everywhere.

Sincerely,

Bill Gates
Chairman and  
Chief Software Architect

Steven A. Ballmer
Chief Executive Officer 

“Partnership and collaboration 

are at the center of how we do 

business, and that’s also how we 

work with governments and NGOs. 

It’s central to our commitment to 

provide leadership in our industry, to 

create a safe and secure computing 

environment, and to advance a 

worldwide knowledge economy that 

creates possibilities for hundreds 

of millions of people previously 

underserved by technology.”

—  Steve Ballmer, Microsoft  

Chief Executive Officer

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

A Global Citizen       

A Global Citizen
A Global Citizen

Canada

Microsoft worked closely with Canadian 

law enforcement to develop the Children’s 

Exploitation Tracking System (CETS), which 

already has helped local police identify and 

track child predators and their victims.

European Union

Working with leading companies and community organizations, Microsoft established the European Union 

Grants Advisor program, which helps small and medium-sized businesses in Europe apply for structural 

funding from the EU and use those grants to improve productivity through technology. After completing 

a successful pilot in Spain, Hungary, and Poland, the program was rolled out across Europe this year.

Latin America

Since launching Unlimited Potential in 2003, 

Microsoft has donated US$15 million in cash 

and software to 48 NGOs, which support 

more than 1,900 community technology and 

learning centers that provide technology 

skills in Latin America. To date, this 

program has empowered nearly 4 million 

people in 17 Latin American countries.

Brazil 

Microsoft supports 17 innovation centers 

in Brazil that offer training scholarships and 

research opportunities for teachers and 

students; courses, certification, and technical 

guidance for software developers; and 

specialized services to help companies test 

their solutions. Approximately 70 percent 

of all students who developed projects at 

the centers in fiscal year 2005 found jobs 

soon after completing the program.

Africa 

Microsoft and the Namibian 

government have been 

implementing a joint project 

that puts technology to work 

for educators and students. 

The African Pathfinder 

initiative is designed to help 

bring computer technology 

to schools and teaching 

curricula around the country. 

Microsoft has now signed 

public private partnerships 

with 15 African countries 

to replicate the model.

Japan

Internet Safety Month in Japan, cosponsored 

by Microsoft, government, and other industry 

leaders in June and July 2005, focused on 

teaching consumers how to stay safe online. 

Southeast Asia

When a tsunami struck Southeast Asia, killing 

tens of thousands of people and leaving 

many others injured or homeless, more than 

8,000 Microsoft employees rushed to help 

by donating cash and volunteering for on-

the-ground relief efforts. Together, Microsoft 

and its employees donated US$7.6 million.

Australia

Marvin is an award-winning application for training, education, and 

presentation authoring that uses customized, three-dimensional, animated 

characters to communicate important information to audiences in their 

own languages. Research shows that using Marvin may increase attendance 

and information retention a hundredfold over traditional communication. 

Through Partners in Learning, Microsoft is providing professional training 

to help teachers incorporate Marvin into classroom instruction.

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Global Citizenship at Microsoft       

Global Citizenship at Microsoft

At Microsoft, we believe that every successful corporation has a 

responsibility to use its resources and influence to make a positive impact 

on the world and its people. Microsoft’s commitment and responsibilities 

as a global corporate citizen are grounded in our company mission and 

values, manifested through our business practices and operations, and 

carried out by thousands of Microsoft employees and suppliers worldwide.

Microsoft’s ongoing work in the area of global citizenship is focused on 

mobilizing our resources across the company to create opportunities 

in communities around the world, to foster economic growth, and to 

serve the public good through innovative technologies and partnerships 

with government, industry, and community organizations.

The Global Citizenship Initiative

At Microsoft, our Global Citizenship Initiative is organized around three pillars, or strategic 
concepts, which form the foundation of our citizenship activities worldwide:

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices  
Ensure integrity and transparency in all of our business practices, with emphasis on strong governance, 
legal and antitrust compliance, support for industry standards, respect for intellectual property, 
interoperability of our products, and commitment to openness in our technology practices.

Improving Security and Internet Safety  
Address the societal challenges of information and communications technology (ICT) — such 
as security, privacy, children’s online safety, and spam — through investments in security 
technology; partnering with industry, governments, and law enforcement to combat cybercrime; 
and broadly distributing information to help customers make their systems more secure.

An Invitation to Our Readers

We appreciate frank and honest 

feedback, both positive and negative, 

because it helps us to improve. We 

invite you to offer your observations 

and suggestions about this report and 

about Microsoft’s global citizenship 

activities. Please send your comments 

to citizenship@microsoft.com.

Advancing the Knowledge Economy  
Partner with governments and communities around the 
world to help strengthen local economies — through 
digital inclusion initiatives, innovation, and programs that 
stimulate growth of the local technology industry — while 
contributing to the vitality of the global economy 
through ongoing technology innovation that leads 
to job creation and overall economic growth.

Constructive Stakeholder Engagement
At Microsoft, we understand that our reputation is a direct 
reflection of how we demonstrate our corporate values 
through our actions every day. We believe that constructive 
engagement with customers, partners, shareholders, 
governments, NGOs, and other stakeholders is an essential 
part of helping us to identify and manage key issues that 
will test how successfully we live our values. This improves 
our business decision–making processes, helps us to 
anticipate and respond to the changing expectations of 
society, and enables us to maintain a broad and balanced 
perspective about issues affecting our business and society.

More information about Microsoft’s Global Citizenship 

Initiative and our progress in each of the pillars is available 

at www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship/report/.   

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices

The way we work with customers, partners, 

governments, vendors, and communities worldwide 

is fundamental to our success as a company. 

Microsoft promotes a culture of accountability and 

collaboration. We strive to ensure the quality and 

integrity of all of our business relationships and 

operations through strong corporate governance, 

full legal compliance, and constructive engagements 

with customers and partners, and by designing 

functionality into our software to make it highly 

interoperable with other companies’ technology.

More information about Microsoft’s Global Citizenship Initiative and responsible 

business practices is available at www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship/.   

…at a glance
  recent examples of our work

Interoperability
In a survey by Jupiter Research, 72 percent of IT 
managers rated Microsoft technologies as the most 
interoperable within their existing environments.

Compliance and Competition
Recently, we transformed conflict into constructive 
engagement by settling legal issues with competitors 
such as Sun Microsystems and IBM and entering into new 
collaborative agreements with them to provide better 
products and services to our mutual customers.

In fiscal year 2005, we launched several new training programs 
for different employee audiences, including a revised New 
Employee Orientation, designed to help make certain that 
Microsoft employees act legally, ethically, and responsibly.

Corporate Governance
Corporate governance 
at Microsoft establishes 
management accountability, 
provides a structure for 
setting and attaining company 
objectives and monitoring 
performance, helps to 
ensure business integrity and 
responsible business practices, 
and encourages the efficient 
use of company resources.

10       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices       11

Responsible Business Practices

Interoperable by Design

Microsoft has been working with 

industry partners on a new generation 

of software with built-in components 

to make it “interoperable by design.” 

One approach to making information 

more easily understood by different 

systems is to develop products using 

XML. In 2005, Microsoft announced 

that XML technology will be the 

default file format in the next version 

of Microsoft Office, scheduled for 

release in 2006. Microsoft Office Open 

XML Formats are fully documented 

file formats with a royalty-free license. 

Any organization can integrate them 

directly into servers, applications, 

and business processes without 

financial consideration to Microsoft.

One important measure of a company’s performance as a 
corporate citizen is in the way it conducts its business and 
manages its relationships. Transparency and integrity are 
at the center of all of Microsoft’s business activities and 
interactions. They help us maintain our moral compass and 
do the right thing for consumers, businesses, community 
partners, governments, shareholders, and employees. 
Today, perhaps more than ever, stakeholders demand 
accountability from a global leader such as Microsoft.

One of the many ways that Microsoft ensures transparency 
and integrity is through our responsible business practices, 
which are guided by our corporate values, codes of conduct, 
company policies, and business strategies. Through these 
efforts we aim to promote innovation and competition for 
the benefit of consumers and our industry. These practices 
also guide us in our engagements with all parties, helping 
us to adhere to the highest ethical and legal standards.

Creating Opportunity Through 
Transparency and Interoperability
A clear example of our commitment to transparency is 
our success in making our products work well with those 
of other manufacturers, including our competitors. 
Interoperability — the ability of heterogeneous IT 
networks, applications, or components to exchange 
and use information — has increasingly become a key 
requirement for both industry and government. As a 
result, it also has become a key focus for Microsoft.

“Citrix and Microsoft customers are 

going to continue to have access 

to best-of-breed technology and 

they’re guaranteed a high degree of 

interoperability.… You’re not requiring 

customers to make a choice [between 

Citrix and Microsoft solutions].”

—  Laura DiDio, Senior Analyst,  

Yankee Group

The Value of Interoperability for Customers
Like most municipalities, the City of Siegburg, Germany, 
collects and stores a large amount of data using 
various methods and software applications running on 
different operating systems. Specialized information 
systems handle a range of services provided by the 
city government, such as processing building permits, 
vehicle registrations, and passport applications.

Traditionally, citizens wanting to access a municipal service 
would have to visit a local office, stand in line, and fill 
in a paper form. A city employee would then enter the 
information from the form into the relevant computer 
system. The data would be processed and some weeks 
later the citizen would receive a response to the request.

Siegburg wanted to shorten the waiting time and reduce the 
paperwork by providing citizens and businesses with more 
convenient access to services over the Internet. To do this, it 
needed to make electronic forms and services available from 
a single integrated source, but its systems were built on a 
collection of different operating systems and applications.

To integrate its existing applications and services, and 
make them available on the Web, the City of Siegburg 
implemented the E-Government Starter Kit (EGSK), a 
free platform solution developed by Microsoft Germany 
specifically for public administrations that need to 
provide electronic interdepartmental services.

Developed using the Microsoft® .NET Framework, the 
EGSK enables the interoperability of data and functions 
by creating XML-based applications, processes, and 
Web services. Microsoft BizTalk® Server gives automated 
business processes the flexibility to incorporate a human 
touch at appropriate stages throughout a workflow.

1       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices       1

“Juniper Networks is delighted to be 

working with Microsoft to integrate 

user, application, and network policy 

and enforcement in a seamless 

manner. By working with Microsoft 

on Network Access Protection, we 

are furthering Juniper’s commitment 

to open, multivendor standards 

to facilitate more secure network 

user access so our customers 

can be assured of a trusted IT 

environment and user experience.”

—  George Riedel, Vice President,  

Strategy and Corporate Development, 

Juniper Networks Inc.

Siegburg, for example, uses a Unix-based application for 
its financial system. BizTalk calls a Web service to interact 
with the application so that citizens can pay service 
fees and fines directly over the Web. With the Starter 
Kit, it is possible to build a layer on top of the different 
technologies, creating the bridge they need to work 
together efficiently. It can locate the data at the right point 
and transport it between the Internet and the back office.

Achieving interoperability with the EGSK has given the City of 
Siegburg the ability to provide one-stop service through its 
municipal Web portal. Services are available to citizens around 
the clock, and they do not have go to municipal offices to 
stand in line and fill in paper forms. With one password, they 
can use many different applications, but all have the same look 
and functionality. It is now very easy for the citizens of Siegburg 
to communicate with the local government. The move to e-
government also adds an element of transparency to municipal 
affairs. It is possible to track an application as it makes its 
way through different council processes, and any citizen can 
check his or her information and requests over the Web.

For the City of Siegburg, the use of leading-edge Microsoft 
.NET technology, based on Web services and open standards  
such as XML, has enabled communication across applications  
and operating systems regardless of the programming 
language in which the systems were written.

The Microsoft Approach

  Developing software that is 

“interoperable by design” 

  Supporting and implementing 

industry standards (including open 

standards) in products and services

  Publishing and licensing 

proprietary technologies and 

intellectual property (IP) to the 

industry, including competitors

  Collaborating with partners, 

competitors, and governments

Providing Leadership on Interoperability
Microsoft is a leader in developing interoperable products, 
enabling our customers to select from and combine a 
wide range of technologies. Microsoft’s approach to 
interoperability is comprehensive and multifaceted.

Microsoft is a world leader in promoting the development 
and implementation of open technical standards that facilitate 
interoperability across the widest spectrum of products and 
services. Such standards range from those defined by the 
numerous “open standards” bodies to broadly deployed and 
licensed “proprietary standards” adopted by companies across 
the marketplace. We implement hundreds of open standards 
and proprietary standards in our products to enhance 
their interoperability with other products and services.

As part of its commitment to interoperability, Microsoft 
has implemented a comprehensive IP licensing program. It 
comprises licensing source code for Microsoft Windows®, 
Microsoft Office, and other software, including hundreds 
of Microsoft-designed communications protocols, Office 
file formats and XML reference schemas, and other 
elements of our diverse IP portfolio such as patents, 
copyrights, and trademarks. Microsoft respects the IP of 
others and is also a beneficiary of such licensing programs 
from third parties. We believe such licensing encourages 
innovation, competition, and interoperability.

1       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices       1

“With this announcement, SAP 

and Microsoft are delivering on 

the promise to deepen integration 

between SAP NetWeaver and .NET 

in order to help customers better 

integrate their enterprise.… SAP 

NetWeaver’s open integration and 

application allow customers to leverage 

their existing software investments 

to drive innovation through the 

flexibility enabled by interoperability 

of third-party platforms like .NET. 

Thousands of shared customers will 

benefit from the improved level of 

interoperability that the PDK [Portal 

Development Kit] for .NET enables.”

—  Peter Graf, Senior Vice President,  

Product Marketing, Collaborative  

Solutions, SAP

Collaborating with other companies, and even competitors, 
can be the best way to meet the interoperability needs of 
customers, promote innovation, and benefit consumers. In 
addition to our continuing collaboration with governments 
and the IT industry in general, Microsoft has entered 
into agreements to promote interoperability with AOL, 
Yahoo, Cisco, Oracle, palmOne, Toshiba, Motorola, 
Symbian, Sun Microsystems, Research in Motion, Nokia, 
Vodaphone, IBM, SAP, BEA, and Siemens, among many 
others. Microsoft is dedicated to meeting customers’ 
interoperability needs, now and in the future.

Integrity and Compliance
The expectations of our stakeholders — and of everyone inside 
Microsoft — demand that each of us embody the highest 
ethical and legal standards. There can be no compromise.

We call it a culture of accountability. At every level of the 
organization — from the Board of Directors to new employees, 
from the mission statement to individual e-mails — we 
are accountable for our corporate values and codes of 
conduct, and we strive to meet or exceed them every day.

In recent years, we have taken many steps to strengthen 
our culture of accountability — from establishing an Office 
of Legal Compliance to help employees comply with the 
legal requirements of the jurisdictions in which they work, to 
formalizing our Standards of Business Conduct and training 
our employees to ensure that they understand them. In fiscal 
year 2005, we launched several additional training programs 
targeted to specific employee audiences, including a revised 
New Employee Orientation, which emphasizes Microsoft’s 
expectations that every employee act legally, ethically,  
and responsibly.

Moreover, in fiscal year 2005, Microsoft made significant 
progress in settling or resolving our legal differences with 
others so that we could work together for the benefit of all. For 
example we settled legal issues with IBM (July 2005), Novell 
(November 2004), Gateway (April 2005), and Burst.com (March 
2005), as well as a class-action suit in Nebraska (April 2005).

In addition to these legal settlements, we also continued 
to solidify our industry relationships and to meet market 
needs through constructive relationships with partners 
and competitors. For example, in fiscal year 2005 we 
expanded our areas of cooperation with Sun Microsystems 
to include IP licensing and product development after 
settling our legal issues with the company in April 2004.

“This agreement will be of significant 

benefit to both Sun and Microsoft 

customers. It will stimulate new 

products, delivering great new 

choices for customers who want 

to combine server products from 

multiple vendors and achieve seamless 

computing in a heterogeneous 

computing environment.”

—  Scott McNealy, Chairman and CEO, 

Sun Microsystems, commenting 

on the broad technology 

collaboration arrangement that 

Microsoft and Sun entered into 

in April 2004 for the purposes of 

enabling their products to work 

together better and providing 

greater value to their customers.

A year later, McNealy added, 

“Sun and Microsoft are working 

together… and quite well at that.”

1       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Demonstrating Responsible Business Practices       1

“Interoperability is the hinge on a 

door that opens a completely new era 

of interaction between government 

agencies and the citizens they 

serve… Through our partnership, 

agencies can provide citizens with an 

integrated, single point of access for 

government services while at the same 

time obtain an integrated view of the 

data they need to deliver those services 

more efficiently and cost-effectively. HP 

and Microsoft will transform the way 

governments interact with their citizens 

and citizens with their governments.”

—  Enrique Barkey, Worldwide 

Director of Civilian Agency 

Solutions, Hewlett-Packard

European Commission
In early 2004, Microsoft worked diligently to address concerns 
raised by a European Commission investigation, attempting 
to resolve the issues amicably through a settlement. When 
this proved not to be possible, the European Commission 
issued a decision in March 2004, and Microsoft appealed 
the decision based on the merits of the case and requested 
a suspension of the interim measures during the appeal 
process. After the request for suspension was denied by 
the European Court of First Instance in December 2004, 
Microsoft’s focus turned toward full and complete compliance. 

To meet its obligations under the European Commission’s 
decision, Microsoft implemented a protocol licensing 
program to make the technical information used to help 
Microsoft servers communicate with non-Microsoft servers 
available to partners and competitors. The company also 
developed a version of the Windows operating system that 
does not include the Windows Media® Player function. 

Following feedback based on extensive industry market 
testing by the Commission, Microsoft made additional 
changes to further implement the Commission’s remedies. 
The company continues the appeal process and expects to 
present its case before the European Court of First Instance 
in late 2005 or sometime in 2006. Meanwhile, Microsoft 
continues to put a high priority on complying in full with 
its legal obligations as well as developing constructive 
relationships with European governments and institutions.

Antitrust Compliance
As a responsible industry leader, Microsoft continues to 
meet all of its obligations under the 2002 Consent Decree 
with the U.S. Department of Justice and state Attorneys 
General. We have worked to strengthen programs that 
were created prior to the Consent Decree in response 
to the dynamics of the market, as well as those related 
directly to the settlement. For example, Microsoft:

  Maintained the standardized Windows license and 

uniform royalty rates for all PC manufacturers.

  Continued to provide developers with thousands of 

Windows application programming interfaces (APIs) and 
continued the protocol licensing program, both of which 
enhance our efforts to make our software interoperable 
and to stimulate innovation in the marketplace.

  For more information on this issue please visit 

www.microsoft.com/mscorp/ip/protocols.   

  Conducted training programs in more than 60 countries 

to help make certain that employees understand our legal 
obligations and our commitment to full compliance.

In ethics as in software, anything short of the highest 
standard is not acceptable. At Microsoft, we are dedicated 
to achieving the highest standards in everything we do.

1       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Improving Security and Internet Safety

As an industry leader, Microsoft recognizes its 

responsibility to help make the Internet safer 

and computing more secure. Our ultimate goal 

is to help create an environment in which adults, 

children, businesses, and other organizations 

can enjoy the full benefits of the Internet without 

concerns about their safety, privacy, or security. 

Meanwhile, we continue to work toward that goal 

with the help of government, industry, and law 

enforcement partners worldwide, and to help 

consumers and our customers understand what they 

can do to protect themselves and their systems.

More information about the Microsoft’s Global Citizenship 
Initiative and our work on security and Internet safety is 
available at www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship/.   

…at a glance
  recent examples of our work

Simpler, Safer Computing
Released in early fiscal year 2005, Windows XP Service Pack 2  
with Advanced Security Technologies brings Windows XP users 
stronger default security settings. It can automatically install 
new security features that help users protect their computers 
from hackers, viruses, and other security risks. To keep pace 
with the dynamic nature of security threats to businesses, 
Microsoft launched Windows Server™ 2003 Service Pack 1 with 
new security features to help companies and organizations 
keep their IT environments safe and under control.

Innovative Technologies
Security breaches can come in unexpected forms. That’s 
why Microsoft is developing a series of new technologies 
that help prevent and protect against spam and phishing 
attacks by various means, including proof of a sender’s 
identity and evidence of the sender’s reputation, which 
adds another layer of safety and security on any device.

Law Enforcement Partnerships
Microsoft collaborates with law 
enforcement agencies around 
the world on programs like the 
Anti-Virus Rewards Program, 
which offers reward money to 
help stop people who create 
and launch viruses, worms, and 
other malicious code attacks. 
To date, Microsoft has filed 
more than 200 lawsuits against 
spammers and cybercriminals 
worldwide. We also have worked 
with many local and global law 
enforcement partners — including 
Interpol, the International 
Centre of Missing and Exploited 
Children, and the Australian High 
Technology Crime Centre — to 
provide training and to help 
with cybercrime investigations 
in more than 70 countries.

0       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Improving Security and Internet Safety       1

Security and Internet Safety

Excellence in  

Security Fundamentals

In fiscal year 2005, Microsoft also 

released Windows Server 2003 Service 

Pack 1, which offers businesses and 

network administrators increased 

security options and manageability.

We have done a lot to improve 

product quality and engineering 

excellence over the last few years. 

Every year, 15,000 Microsoft 

developers, testers, and program 

managers attend mandatory training 

on how to write more secure code. 

We have integrated security into 

our software development process. 

The results have been a significant 

decrease in the number of security 

bulletins issued for products like 

Windows XP and Windows Server 

2003 and a significant increase in the 

security of our customers’ systems.

Although no system as open and interconnected as the 
Internet can ever be made perfectly secure, through our 
investments in technology fundamentals and innovation, and 
our collaboration with industry and government, we continue 
to move closer to that ideal. At Microsoft, we focus on three 
core strategies to improve security and increase Internet safety:

1. Technology Innovation to help make our products more 
secure, to improve the software update process, and to 
provide new features and products that help improve safety.

2. Partnership and Collaboration with government 
officials, community organizations, and others in 
industry to help develop policies and other strategies 
to protect Internet users and prevent online harm.

3. Guidance and Education to help customers 
make their systems more secure and prepare 
themselves against emerging threats.

In fiscal year 2005, we made significant 
progress in each of these areas.

More information about those efforts and 
achievements is available at www.microsoft.
com/mscorp/citizenship/report/.   

Throughout the year, one of our top security and 
Internet safety goals has been to empower users through 
simplification, which includes making the process of keeping 
computers secure less complicated and using technology 
to simplify the pursuit of those who harm Internet users.

Simpler, Safer Computing
In fiscal year 2005, Microsoft released Service Pack 2 
(SP2) for the Windows XP operating system. SP2 is a free 
download that is helping to make safer and more secure 
computing easier for millions of computer users worldwide. 
Its release was a substantial step forward in the company’s 
Trustworthy Computing Initiative, an initiative launched 
in early 2002 and aimed at fundamentally changing the 
way we design and develop software to address more 
holistically the complex threats to computer security.

In developing SP2, Microsoft sharpened its focus on making 
things simple. Not long ago, the people who created 
Blaster, Slammer, and other worms did a lot of damage by 
exploiting computers that did not have the latest security 
updates installed. Jim Allchin, Group Vice President for the 
Platforms Division at Microsoft, looked across the landscape 
of unprotected systems and issued a challenge to his team:

“Make the Windows security update process simple 
enough for my mother to use.”  — Jim Allchin, Microsoft

Although Microsoft had been making security 
updates available faster than ever before, worms and 
viruses were causing tremendous damage because 
the updates weren’t being implemented. Ordinary 
users, like Jim’s mother, needed a simpler way to 
update software and keep their systems secure.

The first step was to encourage more people to use a 
service called “Microsoft Update,” which automatically 
downloads critical software updates from Microsoft 
whenever a user establishes an Internet connection.

Trustworthy Computing

Computers help transport people 

into space, control critical aircraft 

systems for millions of flights annually, 

and move trillions of dollars around 

the globe every day. Even so, many 

people are hesitant about trusting 

computers with personal information, 

such as financial and medical records, 

because they have concerns about 

computer security, system reliability, 

and data privacy. We understand 

those concerns, and to address them 

we launched Trustworthy Computing, 

a long-term, collaborative effort 

to provide secure, private, and 

reliable computing experiences for 

everyone. At Microsoft, Trustworthy 

Computing is a core priority that 

guides virtually everything we do.

Our three-pronged approach to 

Trustworthy Computing includes 

extensive technology investments, 

proactive customer guidance and 

engagement, and responsible industry 

leadership and collaboration.

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Improving Security and Internet Safety       

Internet Safety Month in Japan

Internet Safety Month in Japan, 

cosponsored by Microsoft, 

government, and other industry 

leaders in June and July 2005, 

focused on teaching consumers how 

to stay safe online. The initiative 

included a nationally televised 

symposium, featuring Microsoft 

Chairman Bill Gates as a keynote 

speaker, plus television public 

service announcements, a new 

Internet safety Web site, student and 

consumer outreach events with a 

national retail store, and partnership 

with the Japan Education Ministry 

for its Net Day event in the fall.

Participants included major companies 

such as NEC, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Toshiba, 

Yahoo, Dell, Turbo Linux, and 

Symantec, as well as government 

ministries and organizations such 

as UNICEF and ECPAT (End Child 

Prostitution, Child Pornography 

and Trafficking of Children for 

Sexual Purposes). A Technical 

Cooperation Agreement between 

Microsoft and the National Police 

Agency of Japan was signed during 

Internet Safety Month, whereby 

Microsoft will help support the 

division’s efforts to fight cybercrime 

by providing security training and 

a technical information hotline.

When our researchers studied how customers installed 
Windows for the first time, they discovered that users were 
often confused by the number of choices they were offered 
and ended up bypassing many options, including security 
enhancing options, without understanding them. In SP2, we 
addressed this problem by making it impossible for users to 
click past the feature without making a conscious choice. They 
must either turn on Automatic Updates or decide to leave it 
turned off, and they are presented with a clear explanation 
of the security benefits to help them make the decision.

Our developers did not stop there. SP2 is configured so that 
the firewall in Windows XP is turned on by default to block 
malicious programs from ever reaching a protected computer. 
Even this seemingly simple step proved challenging, because 
activating the firewall by default required developers to 
relentlessly test and modify SP2 and the firewall so that other 
applications and the overall user experience would not be 
adversely affected by the stronger security measures. Our 
developers also put a new set of controls in an easy-to-access 
and easy-to-use Windows Security Center, which centralizes 
safety information about the computer. If any security 
features are not properly set, users receive a notification and 
recommended actions to help them protect their computers.

Our internal research shows that, compared with computers 
running earlier versions of the Windows XP operating system, 
PCs running Microsoft Windows XP with Service Pack 2 are 13 
to 15 times better protected from viruses and from the most 
prevalent forms of malicious software on the Internet today.

By the end of fiscal year 2005, more than 218 million people 
worldwide had downloaded SP2 and nearly 90 percent 
of all SP2 users were running Automatic Updates.

For those who use earlier versions of Windows, we have 
simplified our Protect Your PC (PYPC) campaign. Now, when 
you visit www.microsoft.com/protect, the PYPC site makes an 
assessment as to which operating system is being used, and 
the site is automatically populated with security and software-
update tips tailored to that operating system. The site coaches 
the user on firewall installation, on the importance of using 
anti-virus and anti-spyware software, and on how to best 
obtain updates to Microsoft software, including Windows.

Microsoft released two other important security technologies in 
fiscal year 2005: a free Malicious Software Removal Tool (MSRT) 
and the beta version of an AntiSpyware tool. The MSRT scans a 
user’s PC for viruses and worms, attempts to remove any that 
it finds, and sends the user a report indicating what has been 
found and removed. The AntiSpyware tool detects software 
programs that may have been installed without the user’s 
knowledge and offers the opportunity to remove them. By the 
end of fiscal year 2005, the MSRT had been executed more than 
800 million times. The AntiSpyware beta has been downloaded 
more than 21 million times and has removed tens of millions 
of spyware packages since it became available to users. Both 
of these new tools also need to be kept up-to-date in order 
to keep pace with evolving online threats, and our engineers 
have worked to make updating them as simple as possible.

Ensuring Greater Security Through User Education
The fact that security threats constantly evolve underscores 
the ongoing importance of consumer awareness. 
Consumers need to know that the online threats they 
face are not static, but that there are steps they can take 
to protect themselves. To this end, in fiscal year 2005 we 
increased our investment in consumer education.

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Improving Security and Internet Safety       

Our online safety tips are now available in more than 20 
languages through both the Microsoft.com Web site and the 
popular MSN® Web portal. We also have continued to partner 
with government agencies and NGOs to disseminate similar 
material through additional outlets. To name one example, 
the U.S. General Services Administration has distributed 
more than 20,000 safety brochures jointly developed by 
Microsoft and the National Cyber Security Alliance. Additional 
examples are described in the Web version of this report 
at www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship/report/.

Using Technology to Fight Crime
By January 2003, Toronto Police Detective Sergeant Paul 
Gillespie had begun to feel that he was fighting a losing battle 
in his attempts to stop child exploitation online. While officers 
in his unit were trying to learn their way around the Internet, 
cybercriminals were becoming increasingly adept in their 
ability to victimize children online in relative anonymity.

“It seemed like the bad guys were just getting better at 
conducting their work on the Internet,” Gillespie recalls. 
“In reality, we were not trained. And when we were 
given training and tools, the criminals were a step or 
two ahead of us. We were always playing catch-up.”

In frustration, Detective Sergeant Gillespie sent an e-mail to 
Microsoft Chairman and Chief Software Architect Bill Gates, 
asking for help in the fight against computer-facilitated crimes 
against children. In response, Microsoft Canada collaborated 
with the Toronto Police Service and the Royal Canadian 
Mounted Police to create the Child Exploitation Tracking 
System (CETS), a custom-designed system that enables police 

officers to communicate across city and county borders, 
in real time and through incident logs, about suspects’ 
activities and whereabouts. Interpol, Scotland Yard, and other 
global police agencies also contributed their expertise.

Like many governmental systems, Canadian law enforcement 
agencies use a variety of tools that are not always 
compatible. Using open industry standards combined 
with Microsoft technology and know-how, the team built 
an integrated, national system that eliminates previous 
obstacles to tracking suspects across Canada. CETS helps 
police track and apprehend criminals who use the Internet 
to exploit or abduct children. In fact, in November 2004, 
while the system was still undergoing beta testing, it 
enabled police to rescue a 4-year-old girl and arrest a 
suspected child abductor and pornographer in Toronto.

International interest in CETS has been strong. Many other 
police agencies are exploring with Microsoft the feasibility  
of bringing comparable systems online in their regions of  
the world.

In fiscal year 2005, we continued our work with legislators 
around the world to help them develop laws and policies 
targeted at those who inflict harm online. We also expanded 
our engagement with law enforcement. We actively 
trained hundreds of law enforcement officers on cyber 
forensics techniques, partnered with law enforcement 
officials to bring legal actions against wrongdoers, 
and brought our own lawsuits against spammers and 
phishing perpetrators intent on ID theft. At the end of 
fiscal year 2005, Microsoft was pursuing more than 135 
lawsuits related to consumer harm on the Internet.

“Criminals are using the Internet at 

an unprecedented rate to exploit the 

most vulnerable of our society: our 

children. I commend Canadian law 

enforcement and Microsoft Canada 

for their vision and leadership in 

creating a tool unlike any other in 

the world that will help keep our 

children safe from online predators.”

—  The Honourable Anne McLellan, 

Canadian Deputy Prime Minister 

and Minister of Public Safety and 

Emergency Preparedness, at the 

official CETS launch in April 2005.

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Advancing the Knowledge Economy

At Microsoft, we are committed to helping countries 

improve their global competitiveness, promote 

local economic growth and development, and drive 

innovation. Microsoft recognizes that, for millions of 

people, the promise of technology is still unrealized. 

So we have made a comprehensive commitment to 

promote digital inclusion. Working with our partners 

around the world, by 2010 we plan to broaden the 

technology skills to reach a quarter billion people 

who are currently underserved by technology.

More information about the Microsoft’s Global Citizenship 
Initiative and our work to advance the knowledge economy is 
available at www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship/.   

…at a glance
  recent examples of our work

Guatemala
There are at least 50 million people with disabilities in Latin 
America and the Caribbean. Most are unemployed and 
82 percent live in poverty. That used to describe Reyna 
Ramos, who has a hard time walking and was unemployed 
for seven years because of her disability. Today, Reyna is 
an entrepreneur with a successful business, thanks to a 
partnership between the Organization of American States 
and Microsoft that provided training in basic computer and 
business skills. Reyna now owns and operates an Internet café 
in her home, advises her neighbors on how to obtain micro-
loans to start their own businesses, and plans to establish 
a nationwide network of Internet cafés in Guatemala.

Australia
Since 2000, Microsoft has 
invested more than AU$20 million 
to support 14,000 Australian 
businesses as partners, suppliers, 
and investors in leading-edge 
technology. In partnership with 
state governments in Australia, 
Microsoft has invested more 
than AU$10 million in high- 
technology centers to foster 
innovation across a range of 
education, defense, justice, 
healthcare, and e-government 
projects. In addition, we have 
established more than 160 
Unlimited Potential community 
technology centers throughout 
Australia, enabling more than 
100,000 people to develop 
or broaden their ICT skills.

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Advancing the Knowledge Economy       9

Knowledge Economy

Unlimited Potential

Since the launch of Microsoft’s 

Unlimited Potential program in 

2003, the company has donated 

more than $126 million in cash and 

software and distributed more than 

3,500 copies of its ICT curriculum 

to support community learning and 

training programs in 95 countries.

Partners in Learning

Through Partners in Learning, 

Microsoft is partnering with nations, 

communities, and educators around 

the world to create sustainable 

educational programs to train 

teachers and prepare students to 

succeed in the global economy.

As governments everywhere strive to harness the 
opportunities and meet the social and economic challenges 
of the twenty-first-century knowledge economy, they 
are focused on promoting job growth and skills training, 
encouraging the development of local industry, and 
enhancing their global competitiveness. Governments 
understand that devising strategies to successfully address 
these issues today will provide a solid foundation for future 
growth and prosperity. Because computers and technology 
are the engines that drive the knowledge economy, many 
of these economic development strategies center on 
increasing digital literacy and the use of technology.

Meeting these objectives is a long-term effort that often 
cannot be accomplished by governments alone. One hallmark 
of the digital age has been the increase in public-private 
partnerships to address issues such as skills training, access 
to technology, and funding for new enterprises. This new 
spirit of collaboration demonstrates that the private sector, 
as well as governments, has an important role to play in 
creating opportunity for local communities worldwide.

Creating Opportunity for Businesses
Microsoft is a very successful company, but our 
accomplishments depend on the success of thousands of 
other technology companies around the world. At the heart 
of our business model is our reliance on other companies 
that build hardware and software, provide solutions, 
and offer services based on the Windows platform.

This global interdependent network of 650,000 Microsoft 
partners creates huge opportunities for local communities. 
It creates jobs, generates tax revenue for governments, 
offers skills and workforce development programs, 
and makes significant investments in innovative new 
technologies. Recent research conducted by IDC, a 

“After participating in the teacher 

training course from the Microsoft 

Partners in Learning program, I 

have realized the importance of 

ICT literacy for our students. I’m 

committed to making computers 

and ICT courses available for my 

students from kindergarten to grade 

12 from next semester onward.”

— Mr. Supoj Puyati, Headmaster,  

Ban Huaysalao School, Thailand

leading provider of marketing intelligence for the 
information and communications technology industry, 
shows that for every $1 of revenue Microsoft earns, 
local software, hardware, and services firms earn 
between $6 and $18 of downstream revenue.

Creating Opportunity for Individuals
Creating economic opportunities for nations, communities, 
and businesses begins by opening doors of opportunity for 
individuals. Microsoft is deeply involved in promoting digital 
inclusion around the world, working in partnership with 
governments, industry leaders, and community organizations 
to offer skills training ranging from basic computer skills to 
the most advanced professional training and certifications. 
By 2010, through innovative technologies and partnerships, 
Microsoft plans to provide ICT skills training to a quarter billion 
people who were previously underserved by technology.

Through our flagship digital inclusion programs, Partners 
in Learning and Unlimited Potential, we provide technology 
access and training to all types of learners, no matter 
where they happen to be on the continuum of ICT skills and 
knowledge. We offer skills training for schoolchildren, for 
teachers who need to learn how to incorporate technology 
as part of their classroom instruction, and for community 
learners. We work with new users and historically underserved 
populations — such as at-risk youth, refugees, senior 
citizens, and people with disabilities — as well as midcareer 
professionals who need to sharpen their skills or gain new 
ones. Together, these digital inclusion programs lay the 
groundwork for increased economic opportunity and  
social improvements.

An important part of our Global Citizenship Initiative is 
creating vital and self-sustaining links between digital inclusion 
programs that train individuals and economic development 
efforts that create jobs and strengthen local communities.

0       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Advancing the Knowledge Economy       1

Microsoft Citizenship in Africa

To date, more than 40,000 community 

members and 550 trainers from 

20 African countries, including the 

region of North Africa, have received 

IT skills through Unlimited Potential 

community technology centers. 

Twenty thousand more are expected 

to be trained by the end of 2005.

South Africa
Recently wed and with a small daughter to look after, 
Sibusiso Dlamini was growing increasingly desperate. 
He had spent the better part of a year looking for a 
job after the insurance company where he worked 
had eliminated his sales executive position.

One evening, Sibusiso and his wife saw a television program 
about a community center that provided technology 
training to the disadvantaged communities of Soweto. 
The Soweto Digital Village in Chiawelo was equipped with 
state-of-the-art technology, including computers, Internet 
access, and the latest Microsoft software and books.

“When I saw that, I knew right away it was where I needed to 
be, I was in dire need, but this Digital Village could help me. 
It was the answer I’d been looking for.”  — Sibusiso Dlamini

After six months, Sibusiso had learned enough IT skills to 
become a tutor at the Digital Village. He wanted to attend 
college, but he didn’t have the money. Instead, Sibusiso 
offered to be the systems administrator of the Soweto 
Digital Village while working toward a Microsoft Certified 
Systems Engineer certificate. Before long, he began 
traveling across South Africa to help open other Digital 
Village centers. “I was excited by all of the energy people 
at the center gave me, by the opportunities it created.”

Persistent issues across most of the continent — health, 
sanitation, education, infrastructure, and governance — have 
led many African governments, NGOs, and the private sector  
to focus on technology as a way to leapfrog traditional stages 
of development, spur growth, and draw Africa more squarely  
into the global economy.

Microsoft funded the Digital Village through its Unlimited 
Potential program and in collaboration with the NGO Africare. 

Local Language Program

In March 2004, Microsoft launched 

the Local Language Program, a global 

initiative that enables governments, 

universities, and local language 

authorities to develop language 

localization resources for Windows XP  

Home, Windows XP Professional, 

and Office 2003 Editions. Using 

Web tools provided by Microsoft, 

sponsoring groups and volunteer 

translators can develop community 

glossaries of standardized technical 

terminology. These glossaries in turn 

provide the foundation for Language 

Interface Packs, which enable 

computer users to adapt their copies 

of Windows and Office to display 

many commonly used features in 

their native languages. To date, more 

than 40 Language Interface Packs 

have been developed for Windows 

and Office, and we continue to 

receive many additional requests.

Structured on the idea of the traditional African village, 
the Digital Village aims to be a community center where 
anyone can come to learn ICT skills or access the Internet 
as part of “lifelong learning” or continuing education.

One of the goals of the Digital Village is to become 
self-sustainable by finding means to generate enough 
income to offset operating expenses. With that in mind, 
the Digital Village opened a Business Services Center, 
offering desktop publishing, graphic design, faxing, 
copying, and printing services for the local community.

In its first year of operation, the Soweto Digital Village 
helped more than 500 children and young adults learn the 
basics of using database and word-processing programs. 
More than 5,000 participants have since taken advantage 
of services available at the Digital Village in their efforts 
to start small businesses, promote community meetings 
or local cultural events, link to online university courses, 
or simply bond with other members of the community.

As for Sibusiso and his wife, she is now a full-time 
student, they have added another daughter to their 
family, and he is working as a systems engineers at ATIO 
Corporation. “I took a lot away from the Digital Village and 
it has changed my life tremendously,” he says. “Though 
I’m still miles away from achieving my ultimate goals, the 
Digital Village put me on the road to getting there.”

Brazil
When he was just a young boy, Cristiano da Silva Souza had 
to work to help support his family, but he never gave up 
his dream of getting an education, and he never stopped 
studying. Through great effort and dedication, he finished 
primary school and became an accounting technician. In 
2002, when he was in his early 20s, Cristiano took a university 
entrance exam, and in 2003 he started attending an IT course 

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Advancing the Knowledge Economy       

with a focus on systems analysis. To help pay his tuition and 
other expenses, Cristiano worked as a bus fare collector, 
but his job gave him no opportunity to use his new skills.

“I fell in love with IT and became deeply interested in 
development and programming issues. On the other 
hand, the course was too basic and I did not have the 
chance of putting things into practice,” Cristiano says. 
That is when he decided to quit his job and devote more 
time to his studies. “Even if I had to earn less, I wanted to 
have the chance of growing in professional terms.”

In August 2004, Cristiano heard about the XML Technology 
Center in Petrópolis, where he was living. The center is 
part of a nationwide program in Brazil, supported by 
Microsoft, which trains students and professionals on XML 
technology, an industry standard that enables communication 
among diverse applications and operating systems.

Cristiano was granted one of the center’s competitive and 
coveted scholarships. Since then, he has earned three 
different Microsoft certifications, which are internationally 
recognized credentials based on rigorous exams that 
certify a candidate’s technical expertise and can lead 
to outstanding employment opportunities. On his first 
certification test, Cristiano had the highest score possible.

Founded in 2001, the XML Technology Center in Petrópolis 
is one of 17 centers Microsoft supports in Brazil, 12 of 
which are focused on XML technology. These centers 
address the needs of the local academic community and 
the regional market by offering scholarships and research 
opportunities for teachers and students, along with 
courses, certification and technical guidance for software 
developers, and specialized professional services and 
concept tests for companies that want to test their solutions.

China

In July 2004, Microsoft launched 

Unlimited Potential in China with a 

program designed to help improve 

employment opportunities for 

unskilled migrant workers. China’s 

phenomenal economic growth 

has led to a massive influx of rural 

migrant workers into cities. Lacking 

the skills they need to compete in 

an urban job market, many of these 

young people are forced to take 

menial jobs with no real future.

Through community technology 

centers, Microsoft is working with 

local organizations to provide 

technology skills training and to 

create opportunities for young 

Chinese men and women. Tan 

Jieying, one of the migrant workers 

in the program, explained: “All I 

want is to use my intelligence and 

diligence to change my fate.”

In fiscal year 2005, 7,444 people took part in courses at the 
XML Technology Centers, and 87 students participated in 
the scholarship program. During that period, 63 projects 
were carried out, 42 percent of which were for public utilities. 
In addition, 122 local software development companies 
used the services provided by the XML labs to improve their 
knowledge and to validate their cutting-edge technologies.

The XML Technology Centers also help students enter 
the labor market: approximately 70 percent of all 
students who developed projects in the labs in fiscal 
year 2005 found jobs promptly after completing the 
program. Cristiano expects to be hired soon.

“Meanwhile, I will take advantage of the opportunities offered 
by the XML Technology Center and try to learn more and 
more, with a view to being ready for the labor market,” he says.

The Philippines
In 2005, the Philippine Software Industry Association and the 
Commission on Information and Communications Technology 
called on Microsoft to help develop a plan to improve the 
Philippines economy by strengthening the nation’s software 
industry. Dubbed “Fly High: Philippine Software 2010,” the 
plan identifies five priority areas for development that will 
help to expand and accelerate the growth of the software 
industry in the Philippines by the end of the decade:

  Grow domestic demand for software.
  Develop skilled software professionals.

Increase software exports.

  Reinforce intellectual property compliance.
  Build infrastructure for industry growth.

Microsoft will continue to work with its government, 
industry, and NGO partners in the Philippines to carry 
out many of the action steps outlined in the plan, 
including a variety of business development, skills 
training, and workforce development initiatives.

Humanitarian Relief

Like many other people around the 

world, Microsoft employees watched 

the tragic events of the Indian Ocean 

tsunami with an overwhelming desire 

to help. More than 8,000 Microsoft 

employees responded to the disaster, 

donating more than $2.9 million for 

relief and recovery efforts. Microsoft 

contributed another $4.7 million in 

matching funds and direct corporate 

support, for a total contribution of 

$7.6 million to date. We also formed 

the Asia Disaster Technical Response 

Team to develop technology-based 

solutions for the relief community, 

and Microsoft employees continue 

to provide volunteer support for 

on-the-ground relief efforts.

 
       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Our Company      

Our Company

Our Mission and Core Values

Business Operations

Financial Report

General Counsel’s Office 

Microsoft’s corporate mission is 

Microsoft generates revenue by developing, manufacturing,  

Our business grew in fiscal year 2005, increasing total revenue 

of Legal Compliance

to enable people and businesses 

licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products  

by $2.95 billion, or 8 percent, to $39.79 billion. For fiscal 

The mission of the office is to 

throughout the world to realize their 

and services, including:

  Operating systems for servers, personal computers (PCs), and 

intelligent devices.

  Server applications for distributed computing environments.

  Information worker productivity applications.

  Business solutions.

  Software development tools.

  Consulting and product support services.

  Training and certification for system integrators and developers.

  The Xbox® video game console and games, PC games, and peripherals.

  Online communication services and information services through our 

MSN portals and channels around the world.

Over the past few years, we have laid the foundation for long-

term growth by making global citizenship an integral part of our 

business strategy and company culture by delivering innovative 

new products, creating opportunity for partners, increasing 

customer satisfaction, and improving our internal processes.

More information about Microsoft’s business operations and 

structure is available at www.microsoft.com/mscorp/default.mspx.

full potential. Our mission and our core 

values underscore our approach to 

business and our role as a committed 

corporate citizen in each of the 

countries and communities where 

we operate. Our ability to deliver 

on our mission depends in part on 

how faithfully we live these values:

  We act with integrity and honesty.

  We have passion for our customers 

and partners, and for technology.

  We practice openness and 

respect for others.

  We are willing to take on big 

challenges and see them through.

  We are self-critical and 

committed to personal excellence 

and self-improvement.

  We are accountable for 

commitments, results, and quality 

to customers, shareholders, 

partners, and employees.

More information about 

Microsoft’s mission and values 

is available at www.microsoft.

com/mscorp/mission/.   

year 2005 revenue, operating income, and other financial 

provide supervision and oversight 

information, see the 2005 Microsoft Annual Report at www.

in implementing and maintaining 

microsoft.com/msft/ar.mspx (available in November 2005).

effective and collaborative compliance 

Corporate Governance

At Microsoft, corporate governance is one of our top priorities. 

We are always at work to strengthen and safeguard our culture 

of accountability, business integrity, and responsible business 

practices. We encourage the efficient use of resources, monitor 

our performance in achieving company objectives, and 

ensure management accountability to our shareholders.

Board of Directors

Our Board of Directors establishes the standards and policies 

for corporate governance, ethics, and compliance throughout 

Microsoft. The Board has developed corporate governance 

practices to help fulfill its responsibilities to oversee the work 

of management in conducting Microsoft’s business and to 

serve the long-term interests of our shareholders. Having these 

governance practices firmly in place and clearly stated invests 

the Board with the necessary authority and autonomy to review 

and evaluate the company’s business operations as needed and 

to make decisions independent of Microsoft management.

For more information about the Microsoft Board of  

Directors, refer to the 2005 Microsoft Annual Report at  

www.microsoft.com/msft/ar.mspx (available in November 2005).

and corporate governance programs. 

This responsibility is wide-ranging, 

but two particular areas of focus 

are administering the Standards of 

Business Conduct in relation to specific 

situations and ensuring that Microsoft 

meets or exceeds all conditions 

of the 2002 Consent Decree that 

resulted from the antitrust lawsuit 

by the U.S. Department of Justice.

The Office of Legal Compliance 

works closely with leaders and key 

colleagues across the company, 

who are accountable for compliance 

with a range of legal and regulatory 

obligations in specific areas, 

including human resources, internal 

audit, product development, 

security, finance, environmental 

stewardship, and marketing. The 

Office of Legal Compliance was 

formed by Board resolution in 

2001 and reports regularly to the 

Microsoft Board of Directors Audit 

Committee about the company’s 

compliance activities and programs.

The Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as the charters for all five Board committees, including the 

Corporate Staff Council and the Executive Team, are available at www.microsoft.com/msft/corpinfo.mspx.   

       Microsoft 2005 Global Citizenship Report

Looking to the Future

Global citizenship at Microsoft is a progressive journey, each step 

forward represents worthwhile progress in our ongoing efforts 

to improve our company, to increase the safety and security 

of people who use our products, and to enable people and 

businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential.

To evaluate the progress we’ve made against our previous  

objectives and to review our current goals, see  

http://www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship/report/.

About This Report

Reporting Scope and Structure

Our citizenship reporting reflects the structure of our Global Citizenship Initiative and 

related activities because we want our stakeholders — employees, customers, partners, 

shareholders, and others — to be able to compare our program goals and objectives with 

our results. Our report is a combination of two components: the following thematic print 

volume and a more expansive and comprehensive online publication. The thematic print 

volume highlights and provides an overview of some key citizenship issues the company 

addressed in the last fiscal year. The more comprehensive version of the report is an 

online publication that we will update on a rolling basis throughout the year. In the online 

portion of this report, we have included references to applicable Global Report Initiative 

(GRI) performance indicators to assist stakeholders in their review and assessment of our 

Global Citizenship Initiative. (More information about the GRI performance indicators 

is available at http://www.globalreporting.org.) The function of the GRI performance 

indicators is to provide information about the economic, environmental, and social 

impacts of organizations in a manner that enhances comparability between reports and 

organizations. In addition, both the print and online components of the report provide 

key links to more detailed information on Microsoft.com, Microsoft’s corporate Web site.

Reporting Period

This report focuses on Microsoft’s fiscal year 2005 (which began July 1, 2004, and 

ended June 30, 2005). All data are for that period unless otherwise noted.

Currency

All money figures in this report are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

Terminology

The terms “Global Citizenship” and “Corporate Citizenship,” which are 

used throughout this report, are interchangeable with similar terms such 

as “Corporate Social Responsibility” and “Corporate Sustainability.”

More information about the GRI performance indicators is available at  

http://www.globalreporting.org/.   

This report is printed on New Leaf 

Opaque 100, White, 80 lb. cover 

and 80 lb. text, which are made 

with process-chlorine-free 100% 

post-consumer waste fiber. 

New Leaf Paper is an FSC certified  

paper broker. 

Printed on paper containing 100% 

post-consumer waste.

Microsoft Corporation

One Microsoft Way

Redmond, WA 98052-8300 USA

Phone: 425.882.8080

www.microsoft.com

Microsoft Asia Pacific

1 Marina Boulevard #22–01, Singapore 018989

Phone: 65.6882.8899

www.microsoft.com/asia

Microsoft Greater China

19/F, Millennium Tower, 38 Xiaoyun Road

Chaoyang, Beijing 100027, P.R. China

Phone: 86.10.8453.8585

www.microsoft.com/china

Microsoft Japan

Odakyu Southern Tower, 2-2-1 Yoyogi

Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8583, Japan

Phone: 81.3.5454.8000

www.microsoft.com/japan

Microsoft Europe, Middle East & Africa

Coeur Défense, Tour B–37e étage

100, Esplanade du Général de Gaulle

92932 Paris La Défense Cédex France

Phone: 33.1.70.99.10.00

www.microsoft.com/emea

Microsoft Latin America

6740 North Andrews Avenue, Suite 400

Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309-2136 USA

Phone: 954.489.4800

www.microsoft.com/latam

Microsoft Canada

1950 Meadowvale Boulevard

Mississauga, Ontario L5N 8L9 Canada

Phone: 905.568.0434

www.microsoft.com/canada

To  access  This  informaTion  online,  visiT:   
W W W. m i cr os o f T.co m/ m s co r P/ci T i Zen sh i P

© 2005 microsoft corporation. all rights reserved. microsoft, BizTalk, msn, Windows, Windows media, Windows server, and Xbox 
are either registered trademarks or trademarks of microsoft corporation in the United states and/or other countries. The names of 
actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. Part no. 098-104003

