Microsoft
2011
Citizenship
Report

2

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportTABLE OF CONTENTS 

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report

Citizenship at Microsoft  06

Our Company  09      

Serving Communities  13

Working Responsibly  31

GRI Index  77

About This Report  78

The image on the cover of our report  
represents a winning team at TechStart Expo, 
an annual event in Seattle that celebrates 
the learning and accomplishments of 
TechStart students in robotics, programming, 
game design, and Science, Technology,  
Engineering and Math (STEM) knowledge. 
Microsoft is proud to support TechStart 
which is a free, yearlong after-school and 
school day program for public school  
students in grades 1–8, providing STEM  
enrichment for underserved children of 
color. TechStart is a program of Technology 
Access Foundation (TAF), a nonprofit leader 
in STEM education that partners with public 
education, businesses and the community  
to equip and empower students of color  
for success in college and life.

Education
17

Our People
37

Jobs & Growth
21

Nonprofits
24

Humanitarian 
Response
28

Environmental 
Sustainability

48

Responsible 
Sourcing
56

Privacy & 
Safety
60

Integrity & 
Governance
67

Compliance
74

4

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportCEO Letter

To Our Stakeholders: 

We’ve always believed that technology creates opportunities for people and organizations 
to achieve their dreams. This belief continues to drive us towards new inventions and new 
markets so we can impact the lives of billions of people around the world.

This report shares some of the important work we’re doing in our communities, and our 
efforts to manage a responsible business. It explains our Citizenship actions in fiscal year 
2011 and together with our annual financial report gives a complete picture of our work 
and highlights our focus for the year ahead. 

Our Citizenship work supports our mission—to help people and businesses throughout 
the world realize their full potential. It is reflected in the frequent and candid interactions 
we have with our stakeholders—employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners, 
and neighbors—all critical to a responsible and sustainable business.

The impact we have made through our Citizenship initiatives during the past year spanned 
disaster relief to education. For example, we developed new ways to help teachers and 
schools use technology to make learning more engaging. We created a new system that 
supports volunteerism by matching employees with nonprofits in need based on their 
skills. We were also honored to partner with the organizations in Japan to deploy our 
cloud technologies to help those affected by the earthquake and tsunami get the critical 
information and help needed as part of the relief and recovery efforts. 

At Microsoft, we believe that hope rests in the steady progress toward the future and 
we are driven to support new businesses and learning opportunities for people around 
the world. This year alone, we equipped 75,000 people with software to grow their small 
business through our BizSpark program. We also reached 23 million people through the 
Community Technology Skills Program. And our Partners in Learning program, now in its 
ninth year, worked with schools and governments to spread teachers’ ideas for how to use 
technology to create more dynamic classrooms. 

We also remain committed to operating our business responsibly. You will read in this 
report some of the steps we’ve taken to strengthen our supply chain, monitor and  
manage our environmental footprint, promote human rights, and continue our leadership 
in corporate governance, compliance, and political involvement. As a signatory of the  
UN Global Compact, each of these areas is part of that commitment. But even more  
importantly, each of these makes our business stronger and more resilient to a world  
that changes rapidly. 

As we enter a new year, I am optimistic that the ideas, passion, and tenacity that are 
central to our Citizenship will continue to create value for our business and for the people 
and communities we touch. Thank you for your interest in Microsoft. We welcome your 
thoughts and suggestions.

Sincerely,

Steven A. Ballmer
CEO, Microsoft Corp. 

5

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportCitizenship at Microsoft 

Citizenship at Microsoft is about serving  
the needs of communities and fulfilling our 
responsibilities to the public. 

Microsoft’s mission is to help people and 
businesses around the world realize their 
full potential. Our Citizenship work plays 
a vital role in delivering on that mission 
as we apply our technology expertise and 
resources to help solve societal challenges 
on both a global and a local scale. 

Our Citizenship Mission

Serve globally the needs of communities and 
fulfill our responsibilities to the public.

Our Citizenship Approach

In 1975 Microsoft was an unknown software 
company with a single product and the promise 
of delivering on a new way of computing. 
We have since grown to become one of the 
largest companies in the world. With that 
growth comes the responsibility to contribute 
positively to society on a global scale. 

6

We do so in two ways: Serving Communities 
and Working Responsibly. 

SERVING COMMUNITIES

As a company, we have a responsibility to 
help create social and economic opportunities 
wherever we work, live, and do business. 
Microsoft works with partners to create social 
opportunity by applying technology to a range of 
pressing social issues. These include supporting 
nonprofits, education, humanitarian needs, 
healthcare, and energy and environmental 
sustainability. Technology also fosters economic 
opportunity and creates jobs. Through our core 
business and through global programs, we work 
to strengthen local economies by supporting 
workforce development, IT infrastructure, 
research, innovation, and access to technology.

We employ exceptional local people around 
the world; we use our skills to serve local needs, 
especially in education; and we support local 
organizations, customs, and cultures. In return 
for our efforts, we are able to benefit from 

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportCitizenship at Microsoft

diverse talent, become part of local economic 
life, and participate positively in the community.

WORKING RESPONSIBLY

Citizenship at Microsoft is also about the way 
we work every day—about the values we bring 
to our business practices and operations. We 
seek principled approaches to how we conduct 
our business that uphold our responsibilities 
to the public. Those responsibilities manifest 
themselves in our Citizenship activities and 
encompass everything from adding features 
that make our products more accessible to 
those with disabilities to how we manage 
our suppliers to how we communicate with 
and engage the full range of stakeholders.

Our commitment to responsible business practices 
is foundational to who we are as a company 
and specific information related to our work in 
various categories (responsible sourcing, online 
privacy and safety, environmental sustainability, 
governance, et al) is provided in this report. 

However, there is one critically important issue 
—human rights—that spans all categories. In 
June 2011, the United Nations Human Rights 
Council endorsed new Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights. This decision 
represented a significant milestone in the history 
of business and human rights. More clarity exists 
today than ever before on governments’ duty 
to protect human rights and the responsibility 
business has to respect human rights. As a 
result of this development, we will be focused 
in FY12 on the key human rights questions 
now faced by companies. Those questions 
relate to how companies (specifically Microsoft) 
should apply the UN Guiding Principles to 
our business strategy and operations. 

As noted elsewhere, Microsoft endorses the 
United Nations Declaration on Human Rights, as a 
signatory to the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC), and we will use both the Declaration 
and UNGC to inform and guide our work in 
developing a holistic approaching meeting our 
human rights responsibilities within the context 
of the newly endorsed Guiding Principles. 

7

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportCitizenship at Microsoft

Stakeholder Engagement and  
Responding to International Priorities 

What’s Next  
in Citizenship

Microsoft Citizenship work is also informed by 
engagement with thousands of stakeholders 
around the world, ranging from human rights 
experts to parents concerned about the online 
safety of their children. In working to conduct 
our business with integrity, we engage with a 
wide range of stakeholders across all parts of 
our business operations. We also benefit from 
participating in a range of groups and initiatives 
that address corporate responsibility, including 
Business for Social Responsibility, the Boston 
College Center for Corporate Citizenship, Net 
Impact, and the World Economic Forum’s 
Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. 

In particular, our work is informed by and aligned 
with internationally recognized priorities and 
frameworks, such as the United Nations Global 
Compact and the United Nations Millennium 
Development Goals. We seek to align our 
Citizenship reporting to the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 

•  Download the Microsoft UN Global Compact 

Communications on Progress (PDF file, 478 KB)

•  Download the Microsoft Commitment 
to the UN Millennium Development 
Goals (PDF file, 397 KB)  

| 

 For more information and downloads, view this report 
online at http://www.microsoft.com/citizenshipreport

In FY2011, we initiated planning to evolve 
Microsoft’s Citizenship approach, which we 
will refine over the course of FY2012. This 
represents the third generation of Citizenship 
at Microsoft over the past dozen years, 
and it continues to support our corporate 
mission to help people and businesses 
around the world reach their full potential. 

To enhance our commitment to working 
responsibly, in FY2012 we are conducting an in-
depth review to assess and further strengthen our 
work to promote responsible business practices 
across our supply chain. We are also sharpening 
our work to serve communities, where we are 
launching a new set of programs focused on 
providing opportunities for youth. In addition, 
we are developing a more focused engagement 
with the product and business groups to support 
efforts to serve communities through technology.

Microsoft will continue to work to expand its 
commitment to transparency. We have made 
progress in this year’s Citizenship Report, and we 
plan to build on this by setting clearer forward-
looking goals in our FY2012 Citizenship Report. 
As always, we have an ongoing commitment 
to engage with our stakeholders, and we 
welcome input and feedback on how we are 
performing and how we are communicating.

8

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportOur Company

Our Mission

Where We Are

Microsoft is headquartered in Redmond, 
Washington. In fiscal year 2011 (FY2011) we 
employed approximately 90,000 people on 
a full-time basis in more than 100 countries/
regions and territories. Approximately 54,000 
employees were based in the United States, 
and 36,000 were based internationally.

Financial Information

To help people and businesses around 
the world realize their full potential.

Our Business

As the worldwide leader in software, services, 
and solutions that help people and businesses 
realize their full potential, Microsoft Corporation 
(NASDAQ: MSFT) is committed to sharing 
our successes with our employees, our 
shareholders, and the communities in which 
we operate. We approach that commitment 
with the same energy and innovation with 
which we approach all parts of our business. 

For detailed financial information, see the Microsoft annual financial report.

9

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report$2.10FY2011FY2010FY2009$2.69$1.62$24.10FY2011FY2010FY2009$27.16$20.36$62.48FY2011FY2010FY2009$69.94$58.44Revenue(in Billions)Operating Income(in Billions)Earnings Per ShareOur Company

Business Structure 

(Revenue per business division shown in billions.)

For detailed information about Microsoft’s business structure and 
financial performance, visit the Microsoft Investor Relations website.

10

Our Customers and Partners

Our success as a business depends 
on our ability to listen and respond 
to feedback from our customers and 
partners. We continually focus on 
improving our customer relationships 
and our broad range of listening systems, 
including product satisfaction surveys, 
usability studies, online feedback 
forms, support communities, research 
forums, and our customer service 
Twitter account @MicrosoftHelps. 
All of these help us understand and 
respond to the experiences that 
people have with our company.

Across Microsoft, employees and 
executives are accountable for customer 
and partner satisfaction metrics from our 
global surveys, and satisfaction ratings are 
a core measurement for both individual 
and regional performance. Microsoft’s 
latest third-party global survey results 
show that satisfaction with Microsoft 
has improved significantly over the past 
two years. In addition, the American 
Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) reports 
a 2 point gain for Microsoft over the last 
year and a 7 percent gain since 2009. 

For more information on customer 
and partner experience or to provide 
feedback, visit the Microsoft Customer 
and Partner Experience website.

Partners 

Microsoft partners with approximately 
640,000 businesses—mostly small to 
medium-sized and locally owned—
to develop, market, sell, and service 
Microsoft products. Our partners’ impact 
is felt in economies around the world. 
In 2011, the activities of Microsoft and 
its partners supported many millions 
of jobs globally in addition to the jobs 
of Microsoft corporate employees.

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportONLINE SERVICESWindows 7 and prior versions of the Windows operating system • Windows Live suite of applications and web services• Microsoft PC hardware products$2.20FY2010$2.53FY2011SERVER AND TOOLS Windows Server® operating systems • Windows Azure™ • Microsoft SQL Server® • SQL Azure™ • Windows Intune™ • Windows Embedded • Microsoft Visual Studio® • Microsoft Silverlight® • Microsoft System Center products • Microsoft Consulting Services• Premier product support services$15.38FY2010$17.10FY2011MICROSOFT BUSINESS Microsoft Office, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SharePoint®, Microsoft Lync™, Microsoft Dynamics® ERP and CRM solutions, and Office Web Apps, which are the online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel®, PowerPoint®, and OneNote®Microsoft Office 365 was launched in June 2011. Office 365 is an online services offering of Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync.$19.08FY2010$22.19FY2011ENTERTAINMENT AND DEVICES Xbox 360® gaming and entertainment console •Kinect™ for Xbox 360 • Xbox 360 video games • Xbox 360 accessories • Xbox LIVE® • Microsoft Mediaroom® • Windows Phone$6.17FY2010$8.91FY2011WINDOWS® AND WINDOWS LIVE®Windows 7 and prior versions of the Windows operating system • Windows Live suite of applications and web services • Microsoft PC hardware products$19.49FY2010$19.03FY2011 
Our Products

Microsoft products include operating systems 
for personal computers, servers, phones, and 
other intelligent devices; server applications 
for distributed computing environments; 
productivity applications; business solution 
applications; desktop and server management 
tools; software development tools; video 
games; and online advertising. We also 
design and sell hardware, including the Xbox 
360® gaming and entertainment console.

This past year, cloud-based solutions that 
provide customers with software, services, 
and content over the Internet continued to 
grow in significance for our business. Some 
examples of Microsoft cloud services are: 

•  Bing®, our Internet search engine that 
finds and organizes the answers that 
people need so that they can make 
faster, more informed decisions.

•  Xbox LIVE®, a service that enables 
online gaming, social networking, 
and access to a wide range of video, 
gaming, and entertainment content.

•  The Azure™ family of platform 

and database services that helps 
developers connect applications and 
services in the cloud or onsite.

Our Company

In FY2011 Microsoft released a number 
of new products and services that further 
diversified our business. These included: 

•  Windows® Phone 7: Our next-generation 

mobile phone operating system. By the end of 
FY2011, the Windows Phone Marketplace had 
more than 20,000 apps available for download. 

•  Kinect™ for Xbox 360®: A revolutionary 

device that enables people to control their 
Xbox 360 game console by using gestures, 
without requiring a mouse or controller. 

•  Microsoft Lync™ 2010: Our newest 

communication service that integrates 
voice, video, and messaging.

•  Microsoft Office 365: The first cloud-
based application for Microsoft Office, 
enabling users to work, connect, and 
collaborate flexibly from almost anywhere. 

11

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportOur Company

Research and Development

These and other products are the result of 
considerable investment in research and 
development, which is conducted by Microsoft 
Research and dedicated product teams. In 
FY2011 we invested more than $9 billion 
in research and development, equal to 13 
percent of revenue, with a majority of this 
investment focused on product development.

Research and development spending (in billions)

As a percentage of revenue

More information about Microsoft investment in research and development 
is available on pages 9 and 30 of our FY2011 10-K filing. 

2011

$9.04

13%

2010

$8.71

14%

2009

$9.01

15%

12

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing  
Communities

“ At Microsoft, we have a passion for 
technology. One of the best ways we can 
serve our communities is by working with 
our partners in the public and private 
sectors to find ways technology can help 
solve some of today’s most pressing 
societal challenges. The possibilities are 
really exciting and our ambitions are big.” 

   — Jean-Philippe Courtois, President, Microsoft International

Through our Citizenship efforts, Microsoft has the  
opportunity to help build and nurture communities 
in the more than 100 countries/regions around 
the world where we have a presence. 

Microsoft Unlimited Potential has focused on 
serving communities with our time, our resources, 
and our technology. Microsoft has worked 

alongside others to provide relevant, affordable, 
and accessible technology for those at the bottom 
and middle of the economic pyramid. We have 
served millions of people through Unlimited 
Potential, and we will continue to serve millions 
more as our work evolves to meet the needs of 
people around the world and embraces areas 
such as cloud services and mobile technology. 

13

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities

Highlights

The following are some of our goals in each  
of our Serving Communities focus areas.  
Many of these are goals that we set for 
ourselves or reported on in our FY2010 
Citizenship Report. For more detail on these 
goals, see the relevant sections of this report.

14

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Serving Communities

Education

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Reach 250 million students and teachers 
across 115 countries/regions through 
Partners in Learning (2003 goal)

2013

ON TRACK

Use gaming software to make 
learning more interactive

On-going

ON TRACK

In FY2011, we reached nearly 16 million 
students and teachers in 114 countries/
regions. Since 2003, we have reached 
nearly 210 million students and 
teachers in 120 countries/regions.

Began to explore classroom applications 
for Kinect™ for Xbox 360® to help students 
be more engaged in the learning process.

Jobs and Growth

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Help 2 million people get technology 
training through Elevate America

2013

ON TRACK

Reached more than 1 million people in 
FY2011 and nearly 1.9 million since the 
program launched in February 2009. 

Reach 1 million people globally through 
Microsoft Innovation Centers

2012

ACHIEVED

Reached 250,000 people and trained 150,000 
in FY2011, surpassing 1 million reached.

Help 23 million people globally get 
technology training through the 
Community Technology Skills Program

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Provided technology training to more 
than 23 million people in FY2011.

Provide 60,000 people worldwide with 
software to grow their small businesses 
through Microsoft BizSpark®

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Reached more than 75,000 people in 
FY2011, up from 40,000 in FY2010. In 
FY2012, we will work to improve the 
success rate of start-up companies 
participating in the program (current rate 
of renewal in the program is 75 percent).

15

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities

Nonprofits

Goal

Increase access to technology 
for nonprofits to help them 
achieve their missions 

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

On-going

ON TRACK

Donated $844 million in software to 46,886 
nonprofits in 113 countries/regions.

Help nonprofits take advantage 
of the benefits of the cloud

On-going

ON TRACK

Launched Microsoft Dynamics® CRM 
Online 2011 Nonprofit Solution, a cloud-
based program that helps nonprofits 
manage data and more easily work with 
their beneficiaries and donors. We also 
conducted training programs to help 
nonprofits learn about cloud technologies 
that can help their organizations. 

Humanitarian Response

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Develop and implement cloud 
solutions to aid disaster response

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Help businesses recover from 
disasters more quickly

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Created and used cloud solutions to 
help relief organizations, governments, 
businesses, and the public during disasters, 
including the earthquake and tsunami 
in Japan. In FY2012 we will continue 
this work and launch new tools. 

Provided businesses with free access 
to cloud solutions to help them get up 
and running even before infrastructure 
was rebuilt in the Japan earthquake and 
other disasters. In FY2012 our goal is to 
provide additional consulting support 
to businesses that are looking for 
technology solutions after disasters. 

16

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities: Education

Education

More than 100 million young people around the world lack access 
to education1. Millions more don’t get the quality education or 
opportunities that they deserve. Technology can help. 

Education, Learning, and Youth

Microsoft programs have a focus on helping 
youth and young adults around the world 
obtain the skills that they need, connect 
them to opportunities, and support them in 
pursuing their dreams. We have the unique 
ability through technology and partnerships 
to make education and learning more 
accessible and more engaging for them. 

Challenges

•  The global shortage of well-trained 

teachers is slowing progress in increasing 
access to quality education.

•  Many teachers don’t have the up-to-date 
tools that they need to teach effectively.

•  Students need the opportunity to 

gain the critical science, technology, 
engineering, and math (STEM) skills that 
are required for so many of today’s jobs. 

•  There are nearly 77 million unemployed 

youth around the world, partly 
because they lack skills2. 

Opportunities

•  Providing information and communications 

technology tools that teachers can 
incorporate into their curriculum

•  Using the Internet to increase access 
to quality learning opportunities

•  Promoting science, technology, engineering, 

and math education for all students to 
improve skills and competitiveness

• 

Increasing the readiness of workers 
for the technology economy

1. http://www.unicef.org/publications/files/Progress_for_Children-No.9_EN_081710.pdf  
2. http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@dgreports/@dcomm/@publ/documents/publication/wcms_150440.pdf

17

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities: Education

VIEWPOINT 

Dr. Qian Tang 
Deputy Assistant Director-
General for Education, UNESCO 

ICT for high-quality universal education: 
opportunities and challenges

Information and communication technologies (ICT) 
are changing the face of education. They have the 
potential to help expand access, bring more equity, 
improve quality and enhance management practices.

Community radio programs, TV and satellite-
broadcasting programs, self-generated video clips, 
community computers and mobile phones are among 
the different delivery solutions literacy specialists 
are using to reach marginalized groups and young 
people. Online courses are increasingly enabling 
broader groups of students to participate in higher 
education, technical and vocational education and 
training, and other lifelong learning opportunities. 
UNESCO works with its partners around the world, 
which include Microsoft, to develop innovative tools for 
education. In short, ICTs are helping the development 
community to bridge the knowledge divide.

The main benefits of ICT for education appear to be 
in developing cross-disciplinary competencies, such 
as critical thinking, problem solving and complex 
communication—skills that are very relevant in today’s 
fast-changing labor markets. Tapping into this potential 
requires improving teachers’ ICT competencies and 
developing innovative pedagogies. It also means 
rethinking curricula and re-defining learning outcomes 
in response to the growing importance of new basic 
skills such as information literacy, digital literacy 
and ICT literacy. Governments in many developed 
countries and some middle-income countries have 
recognized this, by integrating ICT-related ‘learning 
outcomes’ into their curriculum structure. UNESCO is 
helping governments around the world to update their 
curriculum to include these new learning outcomes.

Of course, there are obstacles. Many students still 
have little or no access to technology. Governments 
and institutions in least developed countries lack the 
capacities to provide well-designed ICT-based learning. 
Furthermore, the broadband divide is still widening. 
The public sector and private companies hold the key 
to bridging this gap. Together, we can ensure that ICT 
helps build a better, more peaceful and equitable world.

18

What We’re Doing 

IMPROVING ACCESS TO  
HIGH-QUALITY EDUCATION

Putting technology to use in classrooms:  
In FY2011 we got closer to our goal of reaching 
250 million students and teachers around the 
world through our Partners in Learning program 
by 2013. Partners in Learning aims to help 
teachers build their skills, share best practices with 
one another, and innovate in their classrooms. 

Together with our partners, we reached nearly 
16 million students and teachers through 
Partners in Learning in FY2011, and we have 
reached nearly 210 million since 2003.

| 

 Impact Story: In India, Project Shiksha trains teachers 
to use technology in the classroom. Learn more about 
how one teacher is using Microsoft PowerPoint® 
to create engaging digital lessons. Read more

Furthering digital inclusion through public/
private partnerships: By partnering with 
governments around the world to create 
inclusive technology solutions, Microsoft 
connected 6 million citizens in FY2011 with 
relevant and affordable education technologies 
through the Shape the Future program

Training students for jobs in the 21st century: 
In FY2011, Microsoft trained more than 360,000 
students worldwide in technology and job 
skills through Microsoft Students to Business, 
which connects students with Microsoft partner 
companies. Nearly 2,000 new companies 
registered for the program in FY2011.

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
 
Serving Communities: Education

| 

 Impact Story: Through Students to  
Business, students in Turkey are being 
trained in key competencies that they will 
need for future jobs. Read more

Helping schools train students and 
teachers: In FY2011 we partnered to help 
thousands of schools provide information 
and communications technology training and 
technology resources for students and teachers. 
Our goal is to improve student employability 
and the professional development of teachers 
through the Microsoft IT Academy. 

SPOTLIGHT  
ON STUDENTS
Meet Team Hermes from Ireland, who took home the 
top prize in Software Design at the 2011 Imagine Cup. 
Competing against more than 380,000 students from 183 
countries/regions, the team took home top honors for 
their device that plugs into a car to monitor dangerous 
driving behavior and road conditions, providing instant 
feedback to both the driver and the car owner.  
Read more

| 

 Impact Story: In 2011, North Carolina became the 
first U.S. state to implement the IT Academy program 
in all of its 628 public high schools. This program 
will provide 200,000 students with technology 
training in the first three years. Watch the video 

Supporting student innovation: More than 
380,000 students from more than 180 countries/
regions participated in the 2011 Imagine Cup, the 
world’s largest student technology competition. 

Using gaming as a teaching tool: Video  
games are the new frontier in interactive learning 
experiences. In FY2011 we launched Kinect™ for 
Xbox 360®, and we are just beginning to discover 
its educational applications. For example, teachers 
around the globe are beginning to use Kinect 
to help stimulate students’ language literacy, 
numeracy development, and even physical fitness. 
One school principal in South Africa observed that 
students focus so intensely on the games that they 
overcome their inhibitions and learn more easily.

ADVANCING SCIENCE AND MATH IN SCHOOLS

Providing problem-solving software: 
We made it easier for schools to adopt 
Microsoft Mathematics 4.0, a program that 
helps students tackle math and science 
challenges, by providing it at no charge.

Supporting STEM policies and programs: 
Microsoft has joined the STEM Ed Coalition, 
a U.S. bipartisan group that aims to educate 
federal policymakers on the critical role that 
STEM education plays in competitiveness. We 
also continued our membership in Change 
the Equation, a joint effort of the Obama 
administration and corporate CEOs to improve 
STEM education in the United States. 

Investing in STEM education in Washington 
State: In FY2011 we helped found Washington 
STEM, a nonprofit that is dedicated to 
advancing innovation, equity, and excellence 
in STEM education in Washington State. 
Microsoft also pledged $25 million to 
the Washington Opportunity Scholarship 
Program to help increase the number of 
Washington State students who earn bachelor’s 
degrees, particularly in STEM fields.

19

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Serving Communities: Education

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE:

•  Partnering with governments around 
the world to increase access to quality 
21st-century education through our 
Shape the Future program.

•  Continuing to advance cloud-based 
computing, learning analytics, and 
mobile and game-based learning to 
help engage and excite students. 

•  Reaching 250 million students and 

teachers across 115 countries/regions 
through Partners in Learning by 2013. 

•  Beginning work on our commitment through 

the Clinton Global Initiative to connect  
1 million “digitally excluded” students and 
their families in the United States to personal 
learning devices, Internet services, online 
education tools, job skills training, and online 
safety resources by the end of FY2014. 

•  Continuing to advocate through our public 

policy agenda and corporate affairs work for 
policies that advance educational reform.

20

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities: Jobs and Growth

Jobs and Growth

In many countries, unemployment remains stubbornly high and 
people lack the skills to fill open jobs. The technology industry 
can help create jobs in all sectors and rebuild economies. 

Technology is a driver of economic growth. For 
example, small and medium-sized businesses 
that heavily use the cloud grow and export 
twice as much as those that don’t.1

Microsoft and our partners have the responsibility 
and opportunity to help maximize the economic 
growth that technology can generate. It’s good 
for our business and good for our communities 
to support small businesses, provide job 
skills training, and create new technologies 
that will give rise to new industries.

Challenges

•  The global economy is still suffering 

from the recession, and many 
people are still out of work. 

•  Workers don’t have the technology 

skills that they need to find and keep 
employment in the modern economy. 

•  Entrepreneurs and small businesses often 
can’t access or afford the technology 
that can help their companies grow. 

1. http://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/publications/internet_matters/index.asp

Opportunities

•  Creating new jobs through 
technology innovation

•  Teaching people technology skills to 
help them get new and better jobs

•  Capitalizing on the growth of cloud computing 
to create economic growth and opportunities 
for builders and users of technology

•  Providing entrepreneurs and small businesses 
with access to technology to help them build 
capacity and drive growth in local economies

SPOTLIGHT ON  
ISABEL GARCIA
Meet Isabel Garcia. Isabel took part in Elevate America,  
learning technology skills that helped her find a new  
job. Read more

21

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Serving Communities: Jobs and Growth

VIEWPOINT 

Luis Alberto Moreno 
President, Inter-American 
Development Bank (IDB)

In Latin America and the 
Caribbean, technology is playing a crucial role in 
fostering development through innovation and 
capacity building. The IDB is partnering with Microsoft 
to develop projects that facilitate ICT access for 
citizens and institutions across the region.

 Among the partnership projects, the IDB—through 
the Multilateral Investment Fund—and Microsoft 
established the Youth Technology for Job Creation 
Fund. In Latin America, there are more than 200 million 
people under the age of 30, and the unemployment 
rate for this group is twice that of the rest of the adult 
population. The fund, which finances job training 
programs to broaden the use of IT skills, entered its 
second phase in March 2011—tripling the amount 
of grants available. This effort builds in part on our 
previous partnership in which we provided technology 
training to people with disabilities and at-risk youth 
populations in more than 21 countries in the region.

The IDB and Microsoft also partner to support policies 
and strategies fostering ICT research capacity building 
and innovation through the Latin American and 
Caribbean Collaborative ICT Research Federation 
(LACCIR) Virtual Institute. Launched in 2007, LACCIR 
has funded more than 25 research projects to date on 
topics ranging from biotechnology to digital inclusion.

In the aftermath of the January 2010 earthquake in 
Haiti, we are addressing the challenge of managing 
information and resources in the reconstruction effort 
and improving the capacity of the country’s education 
system. In partnership with the Haitian government, 
Microsoft and the IDB developed the Haiti Integrated 
Government Platform (HIGP), providing a comprehensive 
e-governance solution to improve transparency 
and donor coordination, thereby transforming the 
delivery of government services. We also continue to 
support education reform and programs to provide 
teachers and students with access to technology.

22

What We’re Doing 

STIMULATING ECONOMIC GROWTH 

Creating jobs and businesses: The technology 
sector is an engine of economic growth. 
Worldwide, jobs in the technology sector 
increased to more than 38 million in 2011. 
But what is more important is the growth that 
technology enables in other sectors. A recent 
study found that creation and use of Internet 
technologies contributed 7 percent growth in 
gross domestic product (GDP) in mature and 
emerging markets in the past 15 years and 11 
percent in the past five.1 We believe that our 
investment in cloud computing will bring the 
benefits of technology to more users at lower 
costs, stimulating the creation of new businesses 
and nurturing the longevity of others.

Propelling innovation: One key to creating 
economic growth through technology is 
innovation. That is why Microsoft is one of the 
industry’s leading investors in research and 
development. We view this as an investment 
in our future, in our industry’s future, and in 
the global progress of technology. Some of the 
results of our research last year included new 
technology to improve everything from colon 
cancer screenings to microfinance transactions 
in the developing world. Through the Microsoft 
Innovation Centers we offer courses and 
resources in technology and business skills for 
entrepreneurs, IT professionals, and students.  
We reached 250,000 people and trained 150,000. 
There are currently 102 centers in 42 countries.

1. http://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/publications/internet_matters/index.asp, page 2.

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Serving Communities: Jobs and Growth

EQUIPPING WORKERS  
WITH TECHNOLOGY SKILLS

In today’s workplace, most employers demand 
that their employees have a high comfort 
level with technology. We continued to 
heavily focus on providing people with the 
technology training that they need to get and 
keep good jobs. Through our programs and 
partnerships, in FY2011 Microsoft provided 
technology skills training to approximately 
23 million people around the world, reaching 
more than 190 million since 2003.

worldwide through BizSpark, up from 40,000 
in FY2010, and we worked with about 45,000 
new start-up businesses. Of these companies, 
about two-thirds were outside the United 
States. In FY2012, we will work to improve 
the success and survivability rate of start-up 
companies that participate in the program.

| 

 Impact Story: French software development 
company and BizSpark participant Lokad 
delivers sales, demand, and call volume forecasts 
by using Windows Azure™.   Read More

| 

 Impact Story: Microsoft Britain Works is helping 
train workers in the United Kingdom. Read More

What’s Next

Our Microsoft Elevate America program 
provides technology skills training and 
resources to help people in the United States 
find employment. Through this program, we 
reached more than 1 million people in FY2011. 

In FY2011, we also announced the Microsoft 
Elevate America Veterans Initiative. This is our 
commitment to contribute $2 million in cash and 
up to $6 million in software over the next two 
years to support programs for members of the 
U.S. armed services and their spouses who are 
separating from the military and reintegrating 
into their civilian communities and the work force.

SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES

Through Microsoft BizSpark®, we provide 
start-up businesses with access to technology, 
business and technical support, and marketing 
and networking opportunities with experienced 
members of tthe entrepreneurial community. In 
FY2011, we reached more than 75,000 people 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Going deeper with our technology skills 

program to support youth who are interested 
in technology to change the world. Through 
our Tech Talent 4 Good initiative, we will 
provide young technology talent with: On-site 
experience through a mentorship program 
with nonprofits.Seed funding to help take their 
innovations to scale. A network to help them 
work together to bring about social change.

•  Continuing to provide technology training  

to workers and technology access to  
small businesses. 

•  Helping start-up businesses increase  

their survival rates in their first few years  
of existence.

•  Working with partners and governments to 
unlock the economic potential of the cloud. 

23

1. http://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/publications/internet_matters/index.asp, page 2.

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report  
 
Serving Communities: Nonprofits

Nonprofits

Nonprofits are changing the world, often with limited resources and 
equipment. Imagine what they can accomplish with a little more help. 

Technology helps nonprofits reduce costs,  
boost productivity, raise funds, and deliver  
new and improved services to their 
local communities. Microsoft has a 
longstanding commitment to ensuring 
that technology is accessible to nonprofits 
around the world, bringing the benefits 
of technology to local communities.

We are proud to work with thousands 
of nonprofits around the world to get 
them access to the technology that they 
need and train them how to use it.

Challenges

Opportunities

•  Ensuring that more nonprofits know they can 
receive software donations from Microsoft

•  Helping nonprofits understand how 

cloud computing can provide technology 
faster and often at a lower cost 

•  Creating more innovative technologies,  
and more that are tailored to the needs  
of nonprofits

•  Repurposing Microsoft enterprise 
solutions to serve nonprofits 

•  Many nonprofits lack the resources that 
they need to carry out their missions.

•  Nonprofits are focused on delivering much-

needed services, but many lack the technology 
training and resources that they need to drive 
efficiencies, cut costs, and increase reach. 

•  Nonprofits may not have optimized 
their use of existing technology, or 
they are not using it correctly.

PARTNER  
SPOTLIGHT

TechSoup Global

TechSoup Global is Microsoft’s signature software 
donation partner. Together, we donate an average of  
$1 million worth of software every day to nonprofits  
around the world. We also work together to provide  
nonprofits with technology training and opportunities  
to share technology best practices with one another.  
Read more

24

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
 
Giving nonprofits  
access to technology 

Donating software: In FY2011 
we donated more than $844 
million in software to 46,886 
nonprofits in 113 countries/
regions. The value of software 
that we have donated globally 
since 1998 is more than $3.9 
billion. The FY2011 value of 
software donated now includes 
employee software donations; 
previous years’ in-kind giving  
numbers do not.

Serving Communities: Nonprofits

25

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities: Nonprofits

Training nonprofits to  
use the latest technology

Equipping refurbished computers: In FY2011 
we supplied 417,030 copies of Windows® and 
184,080 copies of Microsoft Office to partners 
that offer refurbished computers to nonprofits, 
schools, and technology access programs. 

Hosting NGO Connection Days: In FY2011 
Microsoft held more than 100 NGO Connection 
Days, training more than 6,200 nonprofits in  
62 countries/regions on how to use technology 
to build their capacity and serve more people. 

Providing software licensing: In FY2011 
authorities in Russia were reported to have 
used charges of pirating Microsoft software as 
a means to confiscate computers and challenge 
nonprofits. To help protect the freedom of 
expression of nonprofits and their access to 
technology, we established a program that allows 
nonprofits in certain countries/regions** to 
license their existing Microsoft software for free. 
The policy will extend through January 1, 2013.

Offering technology webinars: We hosted 
webinars twice a month, at no charge, to help 
more than 750 nonprofit professionals around  
the world learn about a variety of technology 
topics, including cloud computing, collaboration 
through Microsoft SharePoint®, and managing 
donors and volunteers with CRM. 

Training nonprofit leaders: We worked with  
Nonprofit Technology Network (NTEN) to train 
100 nonprofit leaders to more effectively manage 
information technology within their organizations.

NGO Connection Days

NUMBER OF EVENTS

ORGANIZATIONS REACHED

NUMBER OF ATTENDEES 

ASIA PACIFIC

EUROPE
LATIN AMERICA
MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA

29

30

29

13

NORTH AMERICA

TOTAL

1
FY2011

102

FY2010
107

1,394

1,766

2,424

554

100
FY2011

FY2010

2,447

2,379

3,589

1,032

250
FY2011

FY2010

6,238 6,310

9,697 9,237

**Countries/regions included are Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, China, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.

26

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report28,82049,030ASIA PACIFIC23,23060,680EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA88021,650LATIN AMERICA131,150285,670 NORTH AMERICATOTAL 417,030184,080 COPIES OF OFFICE SUPPLIED*COPIES OF WINDOWS SUPPLIED*REGION*Various versions of Windows and Office were supplied, depending on the type of refurbished hardware. CREATING NEW TECHNOLOGIES 
FOR NONPROFITS

In FY2011 we launched Microsoft Dynamics® 
CRM Online 2011 Nonprofit Solution, a 
cloud-based program that helps nonprofits 
manage data and more easily work with 
their beneficiaries and donors.

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Working with TechSoup Global, our software 
donations partner, to simplify the software 
donation process for nonprofit users and to 
provide increased customer support to help 
nonprofits access technology more easily.

•  Expanding our programs to serve 

nonprofits in more countries/regions. 

•  Launching a new program to help 

nonprofits get the most out of their 
computers by working with them to 
properly license the operating systems 
that they may already have installed.

•  Offering Windows 7 Professional to our 
computer refurbishing partners. This 
will be the first time that we’ve been 
able to offer the most current version of 
Windows for refurbished computers.

•  Researching and developing new 

software and offerings that are tailored 
to the needs of nonprofits.

Serving Communities: Nonprofits

VIEWPOINT

Rita Soni 
CEO, NASSCOM Foundation

How does a remote district in India improve the newborn 
sex ratio from 839 girls for every 1,000 births to 876 
(the world average is 1,0841)? How does a small Indian 
nonprofit reach 150 million weak readers, doubling 
the number of good readers in local primary schools 
(India’s adult literacy is 74.04 percent2)? There is only one 
answer: technology. The information age has transformed 
communities across vast geographies by plugging them 
into networks and providing tools to interact, manage, 
and reach. The term ‘global village’ has taken on a new 
meaning in this information age as miles get bridged by 
the Internet superhighway. However, the impact of ICT on 
poverty and development is still just beginning to be felt. 

The solution to the reach challenge is through 
partnership and active participation of tech companies 
like Microsoft that support the delivery of technology 
access, training, and informed usage to local 
communities. Microsoft has supported the NASSCOM 
Foundation since 2005, and together they have benefited 
more than 1,700 nonprofits all over India through 
software donations, certifications, and IT training for 
better nonprofit performance as well as community 
development. Through partnership we can scale this 
impact, assisting with solving the world’s toughest and 
most pressing issues. Creating a platform for proactive 
participation of tech companies is critical for the success 
of this knowledge transfer. Corporate philanthropy by 
tech companies for hardware, software, and general 
donations is a start. Innovation can come from tech 
companies forging partnerships with nonprofits for 
product/service development. Bridging the talent needs 
of nonprofits with employee volunteering and all-out 
deployment will engage employees and build capacity. 
Tech companies can also consider investment into social 
enterprises piloted by nonprofits as another means of 
bridging the technology divide. And finally, linking in 
the government as the third leg of this collaborative 
effort will scale such efforts to reach the last mile.

ICT-connected villages and urban slums with content 
that can support education, livelihoods, health, disaster 
preparedness, and public services will truly bring about 
an inclusive and sustainable globe where gender 
divides are bridged and illiteracy is a thing of the past.

1. http://hdr.undp.org/en/media/HDR_2010_EN_Complete_reprint.pdf 
2. http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011-prov-results/indiaatglance.html

27

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Serving Communities: Humanitarian Response

Humanitarian Response

People and businesses who have suffered a disaster need help as quickly as possible. 
Microsoft works with partners to use technology to accelerate communication between 
response organizations, enable accurate communication with the public, and speed the 
return to normalcy. We provide customers with the support and services that they need to 
get their businesses back up and running as quickly as possible. A fast recovery not only 
benefits communities, but also decreases the economic impact on the economy. 

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

•  Natural disasters are increasing globally.
Workers don’t have the technology 
skills that they need to find and keep 
employment in the modern economy. 

•  The destruction of infrastructure in 
humanitarian emergency situations 
makes communication and 
coordinated response difficult.

Opportunities

•  Partnering with relief agencies and 

governments to help respond to disasters

•  Using the cloud to bypass infrastructure 
problems to get responders and those 
affected back to normal faster

•  Encouraging employee giving 

and volunteering

•  Driving global donations and 

awareness through social media

28

Microsoft activated company-wide responses 
to two major humanitarian emergencies in 
FY2011: the earthquake and tsunami in Japan 
and the flooding in Pakistan. The company 
also supported relief efforts for more than 
40 other disasters around the world. 

The earthquake and tsunami in Japan was one 
of the world’s largest humanitarian disasters and 
our most significant engagement in FY2011. A 
summary of our response follows. For information  
on our response to other recent disasters, visit  
the Microsoft Citizenship website.

Microsoft and its employees also contributed  
approximately $3.4 million to help victims of  
the disaster in Japan. 

In addition, to support our ongoing commitment 
to help bring technology to remote refugee 
camps with the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the 
Community Technology Access (CTA) program 
added 6 new centers in FY2011; bringing the total  
number of centers to 31 spanning Argentina, 
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, 
Georgia, Kenya, Mauritania, Nepal, Rwanda,  
Sudan, Uganda, and Yemen.

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities: Humanitarian Response

Japan Earthquake and Tsunami

Affected Group

Microsoft Response

Response Organizations

Government and 
Infrastructure Providers

•  As a part of a cross-industry effort, provided more than 1,200 laptop 

computers and software to aid workers. We also worked with Dell and 
HP to provide 250 computers for NetHope, our partner that provides 
humanitarian response organizations with technology support.

•  Worked with a partner to develop an online tool to manage 

evacuation center capacity and resources 

•  Deployed a pilot cloud-based portal to help a local food bank 
keep the public up to date on where they could get food

•  Developed a website and mapping tool in partnership with the 

Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology to 
share information about radiation levels with the public

• 

Provided Microsoft Business Productivity Online Standard Suite/Office 365 
to organizations whose communications infrastructure was damaged

•  Worked with partners to develop and deploy the cloud-based application 

J!ResQ to help displaced persons find their family and friends

Local and International Public

•  Microsoft online properties in Japan featured public information, 
such as a rolling blackout calendar and Bing® map tools showing 
the government radiation reports and the status of roads.

Customers and Partners

•  Raised global awareness and funds through Microsoft online 

properties such as MSN, Bing, and Xbox LIVE®

• 

Provided free customer service and support, Windows® Azure, Microsoft 
Exchange Online, Microsoft SharePoint® Online, and Microsoft 
Lync™ Online for 90 days while existing systems were down

29

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportServing Communities: Humanitarian Response

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Strengthening and building cross-industry 
relationships with technology partners to 
offer a more robust suite of technology 
solutions that address some of the toughest 
challenges of disaster response. 

• 

Implementing more cloud solutions in disaster 
situations, including the Disaster Response 
cloud-based portal that was piloted in Japan.

•  Helping businesses restart after a disaster. 
Building on the work we did in giving 
businesses access to cloud solutions to help 
them restart their operations, we will add 
consulting services for affected customers 
and partners to help them find the best 
technology to speed their recovery. 

PARTNER 
SPOTLIGHT

Digital Office Japan 

In just a matter of days after the earthquake hit in 
Japan, Microsoft partner Digital Office Japan developed 
and deployed J!ResQ, a cloud application that helps 
people displaced by the earthquake find their loved 
ones. Built on Windows® Azure, J!ResQ allows the user 
to record and automatically send a voice message 
from their mobile phone to their family’s and friends’ 
email addresses about their well-being and their GPS-
based location. J!ResQ also enables people to search 
for missing people by using their email addresses. 

More than 15,000 people used J!ResQ to find one 
another in the days and weeks after the earthquake.

30

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
 
Working Responsibly

“ Microsoft is committed to principled, 
accountable, and transparent business 
practices that meet our responsibilities 
as a global company. We appreciate the 
importance of talking with and listening to 
those who are affected by our decisions. 
And we’re committed to learning from 
groups and individuals that are leaders on 
the social, economic, and environmental 
issues of our day.”

   —  Brad Smith, General Counsel and Executive Vice President,  

Legal and Corporate Affairs

How we work is just as important as the 
products we make and all we do to support 
our local communities. Our behavior affects all 
of our stakeholders—customers, shareholders, 
employees, communities, suppliers, and 
partners. We work across all areas of 
business to be a responsible partner to all 
of the people who place their trust in us. 

Highlights

The following are some of our goals in each 
of our Working Responsibly focus areas. Many 
of these are goals that we reported on or set 
for ourselves in our FY2010 Citizenship Report. 
For detail on progress achieved against these 
goals, see the relevant sections of this report. 

31

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly

Our People

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Regularly evaluate 
compensation and 
benefits to meet employee 
and market needs

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Announced significant changes to our pay structure. 
We are raising employees’ base salaries, providing 
more cash up front by reducing performance-based 
stock award targets for most employees. Starting in 
FY2012, employees in particularly competitive positions 
or markets will receive an additional pay increase. 

Increase executive leadership 
support and accountability 
in diversity and inclusion

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Deepened direct executive involvement in company-
wide diversity and inclusion planning. In FY2012 
and beyond, this will create greater visibility and 
accountability for diversity and inclusion results.

Recruit, advance, and retain 
senior-level women globally

Ongoing

BEHIND

The percentage of women pursuing careers 
in technology continues to decrease. We are 
working to address the issue along with other 
industry partners and organizations. 

Continue to encourage 
employees to volunteer 
their skills

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Created an online tool to match the skills 
of employees with nonprofits in need.

32

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly

Environmental Sustainability

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Reduce carbon emissions 
per unit of revenue by 30 
percent compared with 2007

2012

BEHIND

The rise in cloud computing is requiring more data 
center capacity, which in turn is causing the use of more 
energy. We will continue to work to achieve this goal, 
particularly by making our data centers more efficient.

Build new data centers that 
average 1.125 in Power 
Use Effectiveness (PUE)

Enhance our global 
carbon footprint tracking 
system to also track water 
consumption and waste

Create new energy-
efficiency guidelines for 
Microsoft product groups 

Develop new environmental 
guidelines for the software 
industry as a whole

Work with partners to 
find solutions that allow 
cloud computing to 
grow, while reducing 
environmental impacts

2012

ON TRACK

Achieved a PUE of 1.15 to 1.20 in 
our newest data center. 

FY2011

ON TRACK

Added water tracking to our system and improved 
our waste tracking capabilities. The results on water 
are available in this report. We are working toward 
more detailed reporting on waste in FY2012. 

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Developed energy-efficiency guidelines for Windows® 
products. In FY2012, we will work to develop energy-
efficiency guidelines for our cloud services.

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Currently working with peers to develop 
two new industry-wide metrics to track 
carbon emissions and water use . 

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Worked with peers and third-party organizations, 
including the Green Grid, to find new ways to 
make cloud computing more energy efficient.

33

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportQuoteWorking Responsibly

Responsible Sourcing

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Update our Vendor 
Code of Conduct

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Updated the code to strengthen human rights, 
anticorruption, and customer security and privacy. The 
new code became effective at the beginning of FY2012. 

Increase transparency

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Eradicate conflict minerals 
from the technology 
industry’s supply chain

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Briefed socially responsible investors, advocacy 
groups, and industry peers on our policies, 
programs, and progress. We also increased the 
level of detail that we make public about our 
supply chain in our annual Citizenship Report.

Worked with suppliers to help them launch conflict-
free sourcing smelter tracking and management 
systems, which are at various stages of development. 
We also worked with industry peers through the 
Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition to support 
an industry-wide Conflict-Free Smelter Program.

Privacy and Safety

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Teach online safety to 
people around the world

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Helped teach more than 12 million students, teachers, 
parents, and consumers safer online habits and practices

Develop strong privacy and 
safety public policy frameworks

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Created new resources to help policymakers 
understand online challenges and how we 
can work together to solve them

Partner to fight online crime

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Worked with partners to shut down major Internet 
crime operations such as the Win 32/Rustock botnet

Create company-wide 
guidelines on online 
freedom of expression

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Adopted a company-wide Freedom of Expression 
policy that is based on international human rights 
standards and the Global Network Initiative

34

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly

Integrity and Governance

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Expand stakeholder 
engagement and dialogue

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Engage with others on 
industry best practices

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Redesigned and expanded our corporate Governance 
and Citizenship content on the Investor Relations 
website, in addition to maintaining regular 
communications with stakeholder groups

Engaged in cross-industry dialogues through 
the Conference Board Governance Center, 
Stanford Institutional Investors’ Forum, the 
Society of Corporate Secretaries and Governance 
Professionals, and the Council of Institutional 
Investors to help develop best practices

Examine how we manage 
enterprise and external risk

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Expanded our disclosure related to the role of the 
Board and its committees in risk management

Maintain our strong practices 
and performance

Ongoing

ON TRACK

Achieved strong ratings from independent rating 
agencies, including a global market rating of 
9.5 from Governance Metrics International

Compliance

Goal

Target 
Date

FY2011 
Progress

FY2011 Details

Strengthen support for 
industry standards in 
Windows Internet Explorer®

FY2011

ACHIEVED

Published more than 40 documents with the 
release of Internet Explorer 9 that explain its 
support for web standards. No other browser 
vendor provides this level of documentation. 

35

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportQuoteWorking Responsibly

MICROSOFT EMPLOYEE 
POLL RESULTS

Note: Employee poll responses to the questions reflected in this table have not changed significantly since last 
year. We continue to invest in building high levels of employee participation in providing feedback. 

36

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Compensation and Professional Development

Our People

“ No matter where we go in the world, we have to attract great talent. The 
passion and talent of our people is what drives the success of Microsoft.”

  — Lisa Brummel, Chief People Officer

COMPENSATION AND  
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

MICROSOFT EMPLOYEES BY REGION

More than 100 million young people around the 
world lack access to education. Millions more 
don’t get the quality education or opportunities 
that they deserve. Technology can help. 

60%

IN THE U.S.

40%

OUTSIDE THE U.S.

Challenges

Opportunities

•  There is fierce, global competition 
for top talent, particularly in the 
research and development pool.

•  Continually gathering employee 
feedback about Microsoft culture 
and responding to this feedback

•  Microsoft depends on attracting and  

retaining the best talent for 
our business success.

•  The cost of healthcare in the United 
States is rising, and this has near- 
and long-term economic impact for 
both employees and employers. 

•  Retaining top talent through offering 
competitive compensation, rewarding 
top performance, and providing 
ongoing development opportunities

•  Recruiting top talent globally

37

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Compensation and Professional Development

What We’re Doing 

PROVIDING INDUSTRY-LEADING 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS

Updated the way we pay our people:  
We announced the biggest-ever changes to our 
pay structure. We are raising employees’ base 
salaries, providing more cash up front by reducing 
performance-based stock award targets for 
most employees. Starting in FY2012, employees 
in particularly competitive positions or markets 
will receive an  additional pay increase. We took 
these steps to respond to employee preferences 
for cash compensation and to target areas of 
the market where competition is most intense.

Simplified employee performance reviews: 
We simplifed our performance review system to 
make the link between performance and rewards 
more transparent and to allow managers to invest 
more time in meaningful performance and career 
development discussions throughout the year.

Announced the evolution of United States 
healthcare benefits: Microsoft healthcare 
benefits have led the industry for years and 
will continue to be among the best in the 
future. In FY2011 we announced that we will be 
moving to a cost-sharing model beginning in 
2013, providing employees with two years to 
learn more about alternate plans, including the 
Health Savings Plan with generously Microsoft-
funded Health Savings Accounts. The change 
addresses the rising cost of health care in the 
United States and our need to ensure that our 
health plan is sustainable for the long term.

38

Reaffirmed our support for comprehensive 
benefits: We continue to offer a wide range 
of meaningful employee benefits—including 
wellness, insurance, retirement, and work-life 
balance benefits—to provide our employees 
with a high quality of life and ongoing peace 
of mind. Microsoft’s investments in some of 
these programs are detailed in the table. 

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Compensation and Professional Development

PROVIDING LIFELONG LEARNING  
AND DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES

We are committed to supporting employee 
development to help employees learn through 
their work, through their colleagues, and 
through formal training programs. Opportunities 
are framed around a 70-20-10 learning and 

development model: 70 percent on the job, 
20 percent learning through others such as 
mentors and teammates, and 10 percent 
in formal online or in-person training.

39

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Compensation and Professional Development

SPOTLIGHT  
ON LEADERSHIP 

What’s Next

One of the ways that Microsoft develops leaders is 
through our Front Lines program. The program brings 
Microsoft executives together for an immersive three- 
to four-day workshop in a developing country. There, 
they work with Microsoft partners, including nonprofits 
and United Nations agencies, to help them solve 
organizational challenges. The interactive experience 
helps our executives build their leadership and problem-
solving abilities and helps them learn how to do  
business in emerging markets. The experience also  
helps Microsoft partners benefit from the expertise  
of our leaders. 

Thirty-five Microsoft leaders participated in the FY2011  
program in Peru. One hundred percent of Microsoft  
participants agreed that the program gave them a  
deeper understanding of the challenges and  
opportunities for the company in doing business  
in emerging markets.

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Rolling out our new pay structure 

and monitoring feedback to remain 
a leading employer of choice.

•  Optimizing our pay-for-performance 
culture and supporting our new 
performance management approach that 
rewards business impact and emphasizes 
ongoing career development.

•  Finalizing and communicating the details of 
our 2013 U.S. healthcare benefits in advance 
of 2013 Open Enrollment (November 2012) to 
build employees’ awareness of and confidence 
in future health benefit election decisions.

•  Offering learning and development 

opportunities to help employees and 
managers meet the future needs of the 
business, support agility in the workforce,  
and enhance change management  
capabilities.

40

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Diversity and Inclusion

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

“ Our emphasis on diversity and inclusion enables us to build a workforce and create a work 
environment that fosters talent and creativity and welcomes different experiences, perspectives, 
and capabilities. We believe this is key to understanding our customers’ changing needs so 
we can continue to deliver products and services that provide them with real value.”

  — Gwen Houston, General Manager of Global Diversity and Inclusion

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

• 

It can be difficult to attract and retain 
top diverse talent in increasingly 
competitive markets.

•  Fewer women pursue careers in the 

technology industry globally.

Opportunities

•  Continuing to recruit and retain diverse 

employees who reflect our customer markets

• 

Increasing interest in technology careers 
among women and diverse populations

•  Capitalizing on the opportunities of an 
increasingly diverse global marketplace

BUILDING A MORE DIVERSE 
MICROSOFT WORKFORCE

Increasing executive leadership and 
accountability for diversity and inclusion:  
In our FY2010 Citizenship Report, we committed 
to increase Microsoft leaders’ involvement. 
Last year we more deeply engaged the CEO 
and senior executives in diversity and inclusion 
planning for FY2012. Going forward, this higher 
level of engagement will allow us to drive 
greater alignment around global diversity and 
inclusion priorities and impact across Microsoft 
and to hold our leaders accountable for results.

Providing professional development 
opportunities to employee groups: We 
partnered with our employee resource groups 
to help individuals of all backgrounds develop 
their professional skills, ultimately helping 
improve our pipeline of talented employees.

41

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Diversity and Inclusion

* U.S. minorities 
include the following 
populations: African 
American/Black, 
American Indian/  
Alaska Native, Asian, 
Hispanic/Latino(a), 
Native Hawaiian/
Other Pacific Islander.

Sparking student interest in technology 
careers: With our partners, we provided youth 
programming opportunities to help increase 
interest in technology careers among more 
than 4,000 diverse students. Over the long 
term, our hope is that this will also increase 
our pipeline of talented, diverse employees.

CREATING A MORE INCLUSIVE 
WORK ENVIRONMENT

and inclusion for Microsoft employees 
and integrated these into the broader 
company training offerings. More than 
42,000 Microsoft employees took the 
new online training in FY2011. 

Encouraging employee conversations 
about diversity and inclusion: We facilitated 
inclusive conversations with employees and 
leaders to deepen engagement in diversity 
and inclusion dialogues across the company.

Increasing diversity and inclusion training:  
We added new training courses on diversity  

Supporting diverse Microsoft employee 
development: We continued to offer programs 

42

2011 Corporate Citizenship Reportand resources to nurture the professional 
development and meet the unique needs of 
diverse groups of Microsoft employees.

What’s Next 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE:  

•  Continuing efforts to increase diverse talent 
in senior level positions, with a focus on 
racial minorities in the United States and 
women globally. We will do this by:

•  Systemically integrating Diversity and 
Inclusion principles into all aspects of 
the talent-management life cycle.

•  Working with employee resource groups 
and employee networks to build rich 
communities and to successfully bring 
diverse employees to Microsoft.

•  Enhancing managers’ capability and skills for 
engaging a diverse workforce and creating 
inclusive work environments. We will focus 
on critical skills and behaviors that all levels 
of management must demonstrate to excel 
when leading diverse employees and teams. 

•  Continuing to expand diversity and inclusion 
efforts in countries outside the United States.

•  Conducting research to identify 

business opportunities for Microsoft 
to market to diverse populations.

Working Responsibly: Our People: Diversity and Inclusion

SPOTLIGHT  
ON OUR PEOPLE
Through the DigiGirlz Program, Microsoft employees 
are inspiring high school girls in Kenya to learn about 
technology and potentially seek future careers in 
the technology industry. Employees contribute to 
the hands-on computer and technology workshops, 
educational sessions, and fun activities that DigiGirlz 
provides for hundreds of Kenyan girls. Read more

43

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Employee Community Involvement

EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT

Microsoft employees make us a strong and successful company. We have  
a responsibility to support them as they unleash their passions and use 
their talents to help the people and causes that they care about. 

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

•  There is a lack of global infrastructure 

to match the unique skills of volunteers 
with the needs of nonprofits.

SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE GIVING 
AND VOLUNTEERISM

Encouraging volunteerism: We organize 
employee volunteer activities and support 
employees’ personal volunteering by offering 
paid time off for volunteering outside the 
United States and making contributions to 
nonprofits where our employees volunteer in the 
United States. In FY2011, Microsoft employees 
in the United States alone volunteered more 
than 383,000 hours in their communities.

•  Employees are demanding more opportunities 
to make a difference through their careers.

•  Volunteering is often done in one-off projects 
rather than through sustained partnerships. 

Opportunities

•  Working with employees to help make a 

difference in communities around the world

•  Providing employees with meaningful 
opportunities to contribute to their 
communities, bond with their co-workers, 
and improve their leadership skills

•  Taking best practices learned in one part of  

the world and applying them globally 

44

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Working Responsibly: Our People: Employee Community Involvement

Matching charitable giving: In the United States, 
we match employee donations to nonprofits up to 
$12,000. We also run an annual employee giving 
campaign in support of U.S.-based nonprofits. 
In FY2011, with employee contributions and 
the corporate match, we contributed a record-
breaking $93.5 million. Many offices outside the 
United States also match employee giving.

45

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Our People: Employee Community Involvement

CONNECTING SKILLED EMPLOYEES 
WITH NONPROFITS IN NEED

In FY2011, we studied how our employees 
can use their unique skills—both professional 
and nonprofessional—to contribute to their 
communities. To help connect skilled volunteers 
with the community, we created Volunteer 
Manager, an online tool that matches Microsoft 
employees and Microsoft alumni with volunteer 
opportunities based on their skills, areas of 
interest, location, and other factors. The tool was 
piloted in the United States in FY2011 and will 
launch internally across our U.S. offices in FY2012.

EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES TO PERSONALIZE 
AND INSPIRE MICROSOFT’S CITIZENSHIP

Employees at our headquarters in Redmond, 
Washington, started a Net Impact chapter in 
FY2011 to learn about and brainstorm ways 
that Microsoft can be a better corporate 
citizen. Net Impact is a global organization 
that promotes the power of business to make a 
better world. The Microsoft Net Impact chapter 
is the first corporate chapter of its kind. 

VIEWPOINT 

Aaron Hurst  
President and Founder, 
Taproot Foundation

Since the Taproot Foundation launched eight 
years ago we have succeeded in changing the 
game and substantially redefining service. Now, 
1 million hours of pro bono service later, we 
have provided more than US$90 million dollars 
of consulting services to nonprofits working to 
tackle the toughest problems our society faces. 

We have pioneered the spread of the pro bono 
ethic—“give what you know”—to a point where 
the movement is poised to attain critical mass. 
Twenty of the top 25 business schools in the 
United States have pro bono programs, and in the 
corporate sector pro bono is quickly becoming an 
integrated practice. Our six-year partnership with 
Microsoft has helped to bring us to this juncture. 

The next critical step is ensuring the pro bono 
marketplace is sufficiently large and accessible for 
the 79 percent of nonprofits that have an identified 
need but can’t access a supply of skilled volunteers. 

We applaud Microsoft for three tremendous initiatives 
they’ve supported, working with us to close this gap. 

• The development of Volunteer Profile Standards, 
creating a consistent taxonomy for coding volunteer 
skills. Already, Points of Light and other industry leaders 
have agreed to incorporate the results, smoothing 
the way for collaboration across the marketplace. 

• Creation of a large-scale skills-based 
volunteering program for their workforce, 
highlighting their own commitment to pro bono 
and continuing to expand the marketplace. 

• Development of a matching platform that will 
connect Microsoft employees and the Microsoft retiree 
base with skills-based volunteering opportunities, a 
freestanding tool that will generate its own momentum.

It is through these collaborations, shared 
thought leadership, and tireless work to redefine 
and integrate service into our businesses and 
communities that we will succeed in creating a 
world where every nonprofit can fulfill its mission.

46

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Working Responsibly: Our People: Employee Community Involvement

What’s Next 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

• 

Increasing employees’ and Microsoft alumni’s 
skilled volunteerism and use of Volunteer 
Manager with the official launch of the tool.

•  Supporting the Microsoft Net Impact chapter 
to develop and drive employee-generated 
Citizenship projects and expanding the 
chapter to Microsoft employees outside 
of our headquarters in Redmond.

•  Continuing to support employees’ personal 

giving and volunteerism worldwide.

SPOTLIGHT ON  
NET IMPACT

In its pilot year, the Redmond Net Impact chapter was led 
by four dynamic employees from across the business. 

Jasdeep Garcha 
Program Manager,  
Windows Core Kernel 
President, Microsoft Net Impact

“I’m proud to have the opportunity to lead this 
organization in its pilot year, and have no doubt it can 
sustain momentum at Microsoft for a very long time.” 

Himani Naresh 
Group Finance Manager,  
OEM Finance 
Co-Chair of Microsoft Net Impact

“I was looking for an outlet to channel my professional 
skills and my passion for technology in a way to help 
make Microsoft a better global citizen. We have over 
90,000 employees at this great company and together we 
can be an army of change!” 

Charles Thrasher 
Program Manager,  
SMB Advertising 
Co-Chair of Microsoft Net Impact

“I want to become part of the solution rather than the 
problem, to reimagine what business can contribute 
to the greater good, the potential of all rather than a 
few, and I think Microsoft is the place to begin. We’ve 
changed the world before.” 

Enrico Toro 
Senior Product Marketing Manager,  
Windows Server and Management 
Marketing 
Co-Chair of Microsoft Net Impact

“I always believed that we leave our mark in life by 
making the world a little better place than what 
we found, and I believe this is true of individuals 
and corporations. When Net Impact gave me the 
possibility to work with similarly minded individuals 
to do something good together I couldn’t say no.”

47

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Working Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability

Environmental Sustainability

“ IT accounts for about 2 percent of the world’s energy use, but that percentage is growing 
as demand for IT services increases. The cloud will allow us to rethink the role of IT and 
energy, so that we’re not just thinking about how to reduce the impact of IT, but also about 
how IT can reduce the impact of the other 98 percent of the energy consumed.”

  — Rob Bernard, Chief Environmental Strategist

OUR OPERATIONS

Environmental sustainability starts with how we run our own business. We are always 
finding ways for our business to operate more efficiently and sustainably.

Challenges

Opportunities

•  The world’s environmental situation 

•  Using information technology to 

is deteriorating quickly. 

•  Cloud computing requires additional data 

centers that consume more energy.

•  Everything is global, requiring 
travel to do regular business.

reduce our own and our customers’ 
energy use and corporate travel

• 

Increasing the efficiency of data 
centers to further increase the global 
environmental benefits of the cloud

•  Reducing costs through efficiency 
efforts resulting in energy savings

•  Working with our peers to improve energy 

efficiency in the technology industry

48

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability

What We’re Doing 

These infographics summarize the carbon 
footprint of our global facilities, operations, and 
corporate travel. We compile this information 
on a calendar year basis for reporting 
through the Carbon Disclosure Project, the 
largest public database of primary corporate 
climate change information in the world. 
All of our CDP submissions are available on 
the Carbon Disclosure Project website. 

REDUCING CARBON EMISSIONS 

To achieve our goal to reduce carbon 
emissions per unit of revenue by 30 percent 
by 2012 (calendar year) compared with 
2007, we are focusing on the three key areas 
of our business operations that have the 
greatest potential for emissions reductions: 
data centers, travel, and facilities.

*This data is provided on a calendar year basis rather than a Fiscal Year basis to facilitate reporting 
to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is now being extended to water impacts.

VIEWPOINT 

Dan Jørgensen

Member of 
the European 
Parliament, Vice-Chair,  
Committee on the Environment, 
Public Health and Food Safety

In recent years I have been pleased 
to notice that the technology sector is 
becoming more aware of its impact on 
the environment and is acting decisively 
to cut its carbon footprint. By reducing 
power and water usage in its Dublin 
data center, Microsoft and its peers are 
truly leading the way and showing how 
innovation can both foster economic 
growth and create a cleaner, more 
sustainable future for people everywhere.

These efforts are critical as we are 
facing some of the most serious issues 
of global warming caused by increasing 
carbon emissions. In addition, we are 
experiencing some of the worst economic 
setbacks in living memory. I have always 
had a commitment to the environment 
and I believe that information and 
communications technology (ICT) will 
play a crucial role in enabling solutions 
to address these challenges, whilst also 
enabling the creation of a revitalized 
economy for Europe. It is increasingly 
clear that ICT—and especially cloud 
computing—can help people and 
businesses increase energy efficiency 
and drive down carbon emissions.

49

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Working Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability: Our Operations

MAKING OUR DATA  
CENTERS MORE EFFICIENT 

Our data centers still need to become 
more efficient to accommodate the 
cloud, but we are making progress. 

•  We opened the new Generation 4 data center 
in Quincy, Washington, which is achieving a 
PUE (power usage effectiveness) of 1.15 to 
1.20 and gets its electricity from hydropower. 
We are on track to achieve our goal of 
designing and constructing data centers that 
average 1.125 PUE by calendar year 2012.

•  We reduced power use for mechanical 
and electrical infrastructure from an 
estimated industry average of 50 percent 
of data center power to less than 10 
percent for our Generation 4 data centers 
that were constructed in FY2011.

REDUCING CORPORATE TRAVEL

In 2010, corporate travel increased over 2009, 
leading to a rise in air travel emissions. This 
was a result of the recovering economy. (This 
data is provided on a calendar rather than 
fiscal year basis because it is part of our public 
reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.) 
Trips meant to be taken in 2009 were postponed 
to 2010, making for higher 2010 travel 
emissions. Despite this increase, we made some 
progress in keeping travel emissions down.

•  We adopted a new company car policy 
that requires CO2 emissions for all new 
Microsoft company cars to average 130 grams 
per kilometer, representing a significant 
reduction from previous averages.

•  We added 12 electric vehicle charging 
stations to the Puget Sound campus to 
support employee-owned electric vehicles, 
as well as other company service vehicles.

*This data is provided on a calendar year basis rather than a Fiscal Year basis to facilitate reporting 
to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is now being extended to water impacts.

50

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability: Our Operations

IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY  
OF OUR BUILDINGS 

DECREASING WASTE 

•  We reduced computer energy use by  

27 percent. 

•  We launched the Sustainability Champions 

program, an initiative for Microsoft 
employees to rally their co-workers to 
adopt more sustainable work habits. The 
goal is to reduce energy consumption in all 
Puget Sound buildings by 3 to 5 percent. 

In FY2011 we increased our total waste 
diversion rate to more than 80 percent overall 
and 95 percent within our dining services.

ENHANCING THE SYSTEMS THAT WE 
USE TO TRACK OUR FOOTPRINT

In our FY2010 Citizenship Report, we committed  
to enhancing our global tracking systems.  
Over the past year, we:  

•  Began a process to improve how we track 
emissions, as well as water consumption 
and waste, for our more than 600 
Microsoft sites around the world. 

• 

Improved our data center and travel reporting. 

•  Added water use to our current 
inventory and reporting system.

For information about how Microsoft is working to 
reduce the environmental impact of our supply chain, 
see the Responsible Sourcing section of this report. 
More information about our environmental efforts is 
available on the Microsoft Environment website.

*This data is provided on a calendar year basis rather than a Fiscal Year basis to facilitate reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is now being 
extended to water impacts. 
**In 2010 our Greenhouse Gas Emissions inventory was verified by an independent auditor.  
***2010 was the first year we reported on water. At this point, our data collection system does not cover our presence in more than 100 countries.  
The number reported here represents approximate 65 percent of our global portfolio by square footage.

51

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability: Our Operations

What’s Next 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE:  

•  Developing new strategies to meet our 

goal to reduce carbon emissions per unit of 
revenue by 30 percent by 2012 in the wake 
of growth in data center capacity and travel.

• 

Improving our governance model to  
increase accountability to corporate 
environmental goals.

•  Sourcing more renewable power and 
implementing our more sustainable 
Generation 4 modular data center designs.

•  Piloting an energy management program 

to decrease energy use in 10 percent of the 
buildings on our campus in Redmond. 

SPOTLIGHT  
ON THE CLOUD 

Similar to other parts of the Microsoft business,  
cloud computing has impacted how we approach 
environmental sustainability. The economic impact of  
the cloud is direct, but the environmental impact is  
more complex.

There are two major environmental impacts of the cloud:

1.   The cloud saves energy for users. As we learned 
in a study that we co-published with Accenture 
and WSP Environment last year, energy use and 
the carbon footprint of computing is reduced by 
30 to 90 percent per user when companies move 
their business software to the cloud. That means 
enormous energy savings for millions of people 
and businesses. Download the Cloud Computing 
and Sustainability Study (PDF file, 593 KB)

2.   The cloud requires more energy use from 

data centers. The cloud means data centers—
including Microsoft data centers—are storing 
more information and working harder than 
ever. That means more energy use

The energy savings for users outweigh the energy 
gains by data centers. But, to really maximize 
the energy benefits of the cloud, we are working 
with our industry peers and third-party partners 
to find ways to make data centers as efficient as 
they can possibly be. In the long term, we see the 
cloud as a positive environmental strategy. 

52

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Working Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability: Microsoft Technology for the Environment

MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT

Governments, businesses, and households are looking for ways to reduce energy and 
resource use. New technologies will be an important part of the solution. 

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

•  Communities and economies have high 

energy and resource demands.

•  Making changes in favor of environmental  
sustainability can sometimes be difficult  
and costly. 

•  The systemic nature of environmental 
challenges requires “systems thinking”  
and approaches. 

Opportunities

•  Using cloud solutions to help 

cut energy use for users

•  Using technology to track and manage  
important resources and help show 
how they can be reduced

•  Tapping the growing willingness to pay 

attention to environmental challenges and 
work together to solve them, across  
countries and across sectors

CREATING ENERGY SAVINGS 
THROUGH TECHNOLOGY  

Developing cloud products: Microsoft continued 
to develop cloud solutions, such as Microsoft 
Office 365, which help customers use less energy. 

Reducing the energy use of computers: We 
released Microsoft System Center Configuration 
Manager 2007 R3 (SCCM R3), a tool that can 
help information technology departments 
better manage computer energy use.

PARTNER SPOTLIGHT

OSISoft

FY2011 was the first year in which we recognized a 
Sustainability Partner of the Year as part of the Microsoft 
annual business partner awards. The inaugural winner  
was OSIsoft. OSIsoft developed the PI System, built by 
using Microsoft technology, to help companies reduce  
and manage their energy and water consumption.  
Read more

53

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Working Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability: Microsoft Technology for the Environment

Providing guidance for developers: We 
published new guidance to help developers 
ensure that applications work well with 
Windows® Power Management, a key step in 
reducing how much energy information and 
communications technology products consume.

Providing guidance for IT decision makers: 
We published a white paper to assist technology 
decision makers in increasing the energy 
efficiency of their operations by highlighting 
best practices for energy efficiency. 

•  Download the white paper (PDF file, 3.30 MB)

Developing environmental tracking 
software: Microsoft launched Environmental 
Sustainability Dashboard for Microsoft Dynamics® 
AX 2012, an update to our 2009 Dashboard. 
The updated Dashboard helps users track 
not only carbon emissions, but also water 
and waste data, to help them make more 
informed decisions about their resource use. 

PARTNERING TO MAKE THE INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY MORE SUSTAINABLE  

Minimizing our carbon footprint: We continued 
to work with organizations such as the Green Grid 
to reduce the carbon footprint of the information 
and communications technology industry and to 
optimize computing resource use and efficiency. 

Setting industry goals: We co-chaired a working 
group of the ICT4EE forum in the European Union 
to develop methodologies, policy solutions, and 
energy reduction targets for the information 
and communications technology industry.

Working with governments: Together with a 
coalition of information and communications 
technology companies, we announced the 
Guadalajara ICT Declaration for Transformative 
Low-Carbon Solutions. The declaration commits 
our industry to working with governments to use 
information technology to reach emission targets. 

Helping drivers track their energy use: 
We partnered with automakers such as 
Toyota and Ford to provide technologies 
for cars that enable drivers to track and 
reduce their power consumption.

Improving energy management: Microsoft 
collaborated with companies—including 
Alstom Power, Johnson Controls, and Sensus 
Machine Intelligence—to improve the 
management and measurement of energy in 
buildings, data centers, and entire cities. 

 Impact Story: Microsoft technology is 
being used to help reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions through our sponsorship of 
Acterra’s Drive Less Challenge. Read More

| 

54

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Working Responsibly: Environmental Sustainability: Microsoft Technology for the Environment

• 

Increasing awareness among customers on 
how to dispose of their old computers and 
devices sustainably by supporting industry 
partnerships, offering collection programs 
at Microsoft stores and other locations, 
and conducting outreach on the issue. 

•  Creating a kit to help software developers 

build environmental monitoring 
features on the Azure platform.

What’s Next 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE:   

•  Continuing to improve the energy 

efficiency of our products.

•  Creating energy-efficiency guidelines for 
some of our cloud products, including 
Windows Azure™ and Office 365. 

•  Working with partners to create solutions 
for customers in five key areas: Greener IT, 
Buildings, Power and Energy Infrastructure, 
Transportation, and Resource Management.

•  Providing guidance to the information and 
communications technology industry on 
how to produce more efficient software. 

•  Working with industry peers to develop two 
new metrics—Carbon Usage Effectiveness 
and Water Usage Effectiveness—that will help 
make data centers as efficient as possible. 
These metrics will be used to help Microsoft 
and the entire information technology 
industry improve the efficiency of data centers.

•  Collaborating with leading external 

researchers to identify new ways that 
technology can help their understanding 
of environmental challenges. 

55

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Responsible Sourcing

Responsible Sourcing

Microsoft has tens of thousands of suppliers around the world. They 
are critical to our business success, and we expect them to uphold 
the high standards of Citizenship to which we hold ourselves. 

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

•  The global network of suppliers is complex  

and has different business practices  
and norms.

• 

It can be difficult to ensure compliance with 
set standards throughout the supply chain.

•  There is no guarantee that 

monitoring is completely effective in 
addressing supply chain issues. 

Opportunities

•  Developing a diverse and efficient  

supply chain

•  Helping our suppliers improve 

their business practices 

HOLDING OUR SUPPLIERS ACCOUNTABLE

Strengthened our Vendor Code of Conduct: 
We require all of our suppliers to follaow our 
Vendor Code of Conduct. As we committed 
to in our FY2010 Citizenship Report, Microsoft 
significantly strengthened our Vendor Code 
of Conduct in FY2011. This was our first major 
update to the code in three years and gave 
us the opportunity to address emerging 
issues of concern. Changes included:

•  More stringent provisions on 

anticorruption, customer security 
and privacy, and human rights. 

•  A limit of 60 hours of work per week, 

even if local law allows more.

•  An explicit prohibition of discrimination 

against union members.

We communicated the changes in the code 
to our global supply base. The new code went 
into effect as of the beginning of FY2012.

56

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportMonitoring priority suppliers based on 
risk and compliance records: All of the final 
assemblers of our hardware and all high-and 
medium-risk suppliers have undergone human 
rights pre-contracting and ongoing screening. In 
FY2011 about 80 significant suppliers underwent 
human rights risk assessment and monitoring. 
Overall, monitoring found no instances of 
child labor or forced labor. It did find six non-
conformances to our non-discrimination 
policies. Of these, three were escalated to senior 
management and were placed on restricted 
status (meaning that they could not be awarded 
any new Microsoft business). A corrective action 
plan was reviewed and approved in all six cases.

Conducting supply-chain–wide third-party 
anticorruption assessments: We conducted 
third-party risk assessments of our entire 
database of vendors to screen for corruption risk 
factors and found we had a risk rate of about 
half the industry average. We also identified 
about 100 vendors out of our more than 60,000 
suppliers that were not sufficiently implementing 
anticorruption practices; we either ended 
those relationships or took corrective action.

Training suppliers: We engaged and trained 
our direct material suppliers on the Vendor 
Code of Conduct to ensure compliance, 
particularly with the human rights standards. 

Initiated a new grievance process: We 
collaborated with the Fair Labor Association 
and Clear Voice Hotline to give workers in our 
supply chain access 24 hours a day, 7 days 
a week, to a hotline that allows anonymous 
reporting of grievances and issues of concern. 

Working Responsibly: Responsible Sourcing

KEEPING CONFLICT MINERALS 
OUT OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN

Adhering to new regulations: In FY2011 the 
United States passed the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 
which requires companies to disclose whether 
their products use minerals from conflict zones, 
such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
We are working with our suppliers to trace 
the source of all minerals used in our products 
that could potentially come from conflict 
zones. We proactively encourage responsible 
sourcing of minerals and collaborate with 
industry peers, such as the Electronics Industry 
Citizenship Coalition, to help the entire industry’s 
supply chain be free of conflict minerals. 

Staying “on track”: Our efforts to prevent 
conflict minerals from entering our supply chain 
were ranked against other electronics companies 
in December 2010 by the Enough Project, and 

SUPPLIER STANDARDS

The Microsoft Vendor Code of Conduct applies to all 
of our suppliers and requires, among other things:  

•  Fair wages and health benefits.

•  Proper health and safety.

•  Environmental compliance.

•  Freedom of association.

•  No forced or child labor.

•  Non-discrimination.

•   Protection of privacy and intellectual property.

57

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Working Responsibly: Responsible Sourcing

SPOTLIGHT 
ON WOMEN’S 
HEALTH 

Gender inequality affects women’s health and reduces 
opportunities for women to participate in the economy.  
This is particularly true in developing countries. In FY2011, 
Microsoft piloted a women’s health education and  
awareness program in collaboration with Business for 
Social Responsibility and a China-based supplier, Lite On  
Power, called HERproject (Health Enables Returns). 

The LiteOn HERproject collaboration educates their 
women workers about gender-specific health issues. 
This program uses a “train the trainer” approach 
that has proven successful in reducing absenteeism, 
improving retention, and increasing productivity. 

58

Microsoft was rated as “on track.” We will continue 
to work with our industry peers to stay on track. 

REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN

Setting environmental standards: We address 
environmental issues with our suppliers in 
many ways, from measuring the greenhouse 
gas emissions of our Tier 1 contract hardware 
manufacturers and requiring that the computers 
we buy meet the Gold level requirements of the 
Electronic Product Environmental Assessment 
Tool (EPEAT) to seeking more locally sourced 
and organic food for our cafeterias. 

Implementing environmental purchasing 
initiatives: In FY2011, our environmental 
purchasing initiatives included:

•  Purchasing enough wind energy in Europe to  
cover 100 percent of our Dublin data center’s  
power use.

•  Signing a contract with a supplier to increase 
the use of post-consumer recycled printing 
paper at our Puget Sound facilities from  
35 percent to 100 percent. Unfortunately, in 
the months after the contract was signed, the 
supplier company closed. We are exploring  
other options. 

DIVERSIFYING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN

In FY2011 we spent more than US$1 billion  
with suppliers that are woman-owned, minority-
owned, or veteran-owned. This puts us among  
the top 15 companies worldwide in supplier  
diversity spending. 

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
What’s Next 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Continuing education and training on 
our updated Vendor Code of Conduct. 

•  Developing new policies and practices to 

ensure that the Vendor Code of Conduct is 
consistently applied across business units. 
This includes compliance among service 
providers as well as contract manufacturers.

•  Working with all suppliers to identify 
and verify conflict-free minerals.

•  Continuing to increase the transparency 
of our supplier auditing processes on 
labor and human rights issues.

•  Further evaluating and enhancing 

our supply chain policies.

Working Responsibly: Responsible Sourcing

59

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Privacy and Safety

Privacy and Safety

“ Internet privacy, safety, and security are at the heart of our values 
as a company. We are committed to promoting strong methods of 
authentication on the Internet that can lead to greater accountability in 
a host of online scenarios, while also respecting personal privacy.”

  — Scott Charney, Corporate Vice President, Trustworthy Computing

PRIVACY AND SECURITY

Innovations such as cloud computing have countless benefits for society, but 
also present some challenges. As more people and businesses entrust the 
cloud with their information, we are working hard to uphold that trust.

Challenges

Opportunities

•  With more and more personal 

information being stored and transferred 
online, the stakes for privacy and 
data security keep getting higher.

•  Public policy frameworks for online 

privacy and safety need modernization.

•  Like all types of crime, online crime is  
a persistent problem, and it is difficult  
to eradicate.

•  Creating safer products that help 
keep customers more secure

•  Educating people around the world about 
online safety techniques to help them 
protect themselves and their information

•  Working with industry partners and 

policymakers to put in place the public policy 
frameworks and cooperative actions that are 
necessary to better protect people online

60

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Privacy and Safety: Privacy and Security

What We’re Doing 

DEVELOPING SAFER PRODUCTS

Product design can play a major role in helping 
protect users and giving them greater control. 

FY2011 Products: Examples of new Microsoft 
products designed for privacy and safety include:

•  Windows® Internet Explorer® 9: The latest 

version of our web browser incorporates new 
features to help users limit the information 
that websites can collect about them and 
to help protect users from inadvertently 
downloading harmful software.

•  Kinect™ for Xbox 360®: Kinect uses built-in 
cameras and sensors to scan gamers’ body 
movement. However, Kinect was built with 
privacy protection in mind, and the body 
movement information does not personally 
identify an individual. If gamers are using 
Xbox LIVE®, which allows them to interact with 
others online, body movement data is sent 
to the other players’ Xbox consoles. After the 
game session is over, the body movement data 
is immediately deleted from all consoles. Data 
may only occasionally be sent to Microsoft 
for analysis or to help improve the game.

•  PhotoDNA™ implementation in Microsoft 
products: In FY2010, in partnership with 
Dartmouth College and the National 
Center for Missing and Exploited Children, 
Microsoft developed PhotoDNA, an image-
matching technology that helps find and 
remove some of the worst-known child 
pornography images from the Internet. In 

VIEWPOINT 

The Honorable 
Brendan O’Connor 
MP Minister for 
Justice, Minister for 
Home Affairs, Minister for Privacy 
and Freedom of Information

As we articulated in our Digital Economy 
Strategy of May 2011, the Australian 
Government’s goal is for our nation to 
be one of the world’s leading digital 
economies by 2020. To help meet that 
goal, the Government is committed 
to building a strong cybersecurity 
culture, cutting-edge technological 
capacity, and skilled human capital to 
be one of the most attractive locations 
on the global information highway.

Cybercrime and other forms of malicious 
online activity pose a serious threat to the 
long-term prosperity of Australia’s digital 
economy. Hacking incidents around the 
globe have reinforced the importance of 
protecting online information and challenge 
traditional notions of privacy, identity, and 
social responsibility in a virtual world. 

It is a responsibility of the government—
but also of individuals and businesses—to 
face up to these new challenges and to try 
to stay one step ahead of those who might 
seek to harm us. Microsoft is engaging 
in this challenge and I encourage their 
continued engagement in this field.

As part of the wider initiatives undertaken 
by the Government, the Australian Federal 
Police in collaboration with Microsoft and 
ninemsn established ThinkUKnow (www.
thinkuknow.org.au) to provide interactive 
training that educates and increases 
awareness among parents, teachers, 
caregivers, and young people about the 
risks our young people face online and 
how to create a safer online experience. 
ThinkUKnow is a great example of how 
partnerships between government and 
industry can help create responsible and 
well-informed cyber citizens, protect privacy, 
and increase security in cyberspace. 

61

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Working Responsibly: Privacy and Safety: Privacy and Security

FY2011 we implemented PhotoDNA on 
Windows Live® Hotmail®, Windows Live 
SkyDrive®, and Bing® to help stop the spread 
of these images through these platforms.

•  Microsoft Privacy Standard: We released 

a new internal Microsoft Privacy Standard 
to help our employees integrate privacy 
and safety into all parts of our business. 

TEACHING PEOPLE HOW TO STAY SAFER ONLINE

As we committed to in our FY2010 Citizenship 
Report, we focused on teaching people 
online safety techniques in FY2011. 

Safer Internet Day: For the ninth year, we 
worked with partners to celebrate Safer Internet 
Day. More than 1,000 Microsoft volunteers visited 
schools around the world and, together with local 
partners, helped teach more than 100,000 parents, 
teachers, and students about online safety—up 
from 50,000 reached on Safer Internet Day 2010. 

Data Privacy Day: We celebrated global 
Data Privacy Day by providing consumers 
with guidance on how to more safely use 
mobile phones and other devices. 

Safety and Security website: We launched a 
new Safety and Security website for customers 
that provides access to tools and guidance 
about online safety and security. The website 
serves more than 1 million customers a month. 

| 

 Impact Story: To help keep Pakistan’s children 
safe online, Microsoft held a workshop for parents 
and teachers on Internet safety. Read More

HELPING PROTECT PEOPLE  
AND BUSINESSES ONLINE

Fighting online crime: In FY2011, the Microsoft 
Digital Crimes Unit coordinated a legal and technical 
action that took down the Win32/Rustock botnet, 
a global online threat operating with more than 
1 million malware-infected computers under its 
control globally. Before the takedown, Rustock 
was known to be one of the largest sources of 
spam in the world, capable of sending up to 30 
billion spam messages a day. Microsoft has since 
been working with Internet service providers and 
Computer Emergency Response Teams around the 
world to help people clean the botnet malware 
from their infected computers and has provided free 
cleaning tools and information at http://support.
microsoft.com/botnets. This was the second botnet 
takedown operation in Microsoft’s Project MARS 
(Microsoft Active Response for Security), a joint 
effort between the Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit, 
Microsoft Malware Protection Center, and Microsoft 
Trustworthy Computing to annihilate botnets 
and help make the Internet safer for everyone.

Working with law enforcement and 
government: We work with law enforcement 
and government around the world to help fight 
cybercrime. For example, in FY2011 we worked 
with the European Commission to create 2CENTRE, 
a program to build the capacity of European 
countries to fight cybercrime. 2CENTRE will officially 
launch in FY2012 and will operate for two years. 
In FY2011 we also launched the Digital Crimes 
Community Portal, an online portal where Microsoft 
and members of the law enforcement and security 
communities can share intelligence on digital crime. 

Working with partners: We work with peers in 
the technology industry to figure out new ways 
to fight digital crime. In FY2011, we worked with 

62

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportFacebook as they implemented PhotoDNA to 
help identify illegal images of the worst-known 
child pornography online from the more than 
200 million images uploaded to Facebook every 
day. We also partnered with the DNA Foundation 
to form a technology task force to explore new 
ways that the technology industry can help 
fight child sexual exploitation and trafficking. 

Working with policymakers: Online privacy 
and safety can be complex issues. We launched 
a new guide in FY2011 to help policymakers 
understand the online challenges that we face 
and help us work together to solve them. And 
as we said we would in our FY2010 Citizenship 
Report, we worked with policymakers to advocate 
for the legal frameworks that we need to help 
protect privacy and safety online. We made 
progress this year, but there is still work to do.

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE:

•  Working with policymakers to help create 
comprehensive privacy legislation and 
reform of electronic surveillance laws 
in the United States and to develop 
privacy laws in emerging markets.

•  Engaging with multilateral organizations such  

as the Organization for Economic Co-operation  
and Development, the Asia Pacific Economic 
Cooperation, the Council of Europe, and the 
International Telecommunications Union 
to create strong and consistent global 
frameworks for privacy and security policy.

Working Responsibly: Privacy and Safety: Privacy and Security

•  Continuing to work with industry, 
law enforcement, government, 
and nonprofit partners to fight 
cybercrime. Our focus will include:

•  Taking down botnets and helping 

repair malware-infected computers.

•  Working with other online 

services companies to integrate 
PhotoDNA and other disruptive 
technologies into their products.

• 

Increasing awareness of online safety and 
data privacy through efforts such as:

•  Updating the Microsoft Safety and 
Security website to give customers 
the most recent information.

•  Supporting National Cyber Security 
Awareness Month, Safer Internet 
Day, and Data Privacy Day.

•  Working with education partners 
to host more than 1,300 Family 
Online Safety Nights.

•  Conducting privacy education campaigns.

63

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Privacy and Safety: Freedom of Expression

FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION

Freedom of expression is a basic human right. The Internet is a powerful tool for free 
expression, and we support it as a vehicle for the exchange of information and ideas. 

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

•  Some governments make demands 

of information technology companies 
that are inconsistent with international 
human rights standards.

• 

It can sometimes be difficult to distinguish 
between legitimate government demands and 
those intended to infringe on human rights.

•  Compliance with local law is a condition of 

doing business and is necessary to ensure that 
services and information are available to users. 

WORKING WITH OUR PEERS TO 
ADVANCE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION

In 2008, we worked with industry peers, civil 
society groups, academics, and investors to 
found the Global Network Initiative (GNI), an 
organization dedicated to advancing Internet 
freedom. The GNI principles and guidelines 
inform how we engage in markets throughout 
the world. In FY2011, we worked with the 
GNI to publish its inaugural report (PDF file, 
5 MB) on trends and member activities.

Opportunities

•  Giving anyone, anywhere the ability to 
express their ideas, personal or political

•  Providing people with great tools 
to enable civic engagement and 
improved public services 

•  Helping users take more control over  
their online identity and how they  
share information

64

SPOTLIGHT ON CIVIC ENGAGEMENT
One of the ways that Microsoft supports freedom of expression is by 
helping individuals, nonprofits, and issue and political campaigns use 
technology for civic engagement in their countries and communities.

As one example, Get Online Egypt is a nationwide campaign to help 
people benefit from computers and the Internet. Events in Egypt 
have opened the door to new ways of civic participation in social, 
economic, and political developments. In all these areas, the Internet 
is poised to become the channel of the future through which 
Egyptians can be reached and through which they can engage as 
citizens. Microsoft is leading efforts to help more Egyptians get 
online for the first time and use technology for civic engagement.

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
Working Responsibly: Privacy and Safety: Freedom of Expression

CREATING CORPORATE POLICIES TO 
PROTECT FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION

SUPPORTING FREEDOM OF 
POLITICAL EXPRESSION

Adopting a Freedom of Expression Policy: 
In FY2011 we adopted a company-wide 
Freedom of Expression policy to guide how 
we handle decisions about restricting or not 
restricting content. The policy is based on the 
GNI and international human rights standards, 
including the International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights and the United Nations 
Declaration on Human Rights. More on our 
policy is described in the GNI report. 

Engaging leadership: FY2011 was the first year 
we made a freedom of expression risk analysis—
based on GNI principles—part of our Board’s 
Audit Committee annual risk analysis review of 
the company. The committee did not identify any 
immediate remedial steps, but it did recommend 
that the issue continue to be monitored.

BUILDING FREEDOM OF  
EXPRESSION PROTECTIONS INTO  
OUR PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES

In some cases, we can design our products 
to help protect online freedom of expression. 
Features in the Bing® design minimize the 
impact of government demands by enabling 
restrictions of content only for users in the 
market that issues the restriction and who use 
the version of Bing tailored to that market. In 
FY2011, we also created internal processes and 
tools to help ensure that government content 
removal requests are handled consistently 
with our new Freedom of Expression policy. 

As part of our due diligence approach, we 
become aware of situations in which free 
expression issues could arise. The following 
are some examples of issues that came 
up in FY2011 and how we responded. 

Anti-piracy enforcement and nonprofits: 
Early in FY2011 there were allegations that 
authorities in Russia had used software piracy 
charges to confiscate computers and challenge 
nonprofits that had voiced opposition to the 
government. Regardless of whether these 
allegations were true, we wanted to make it 
clear that we opposed any such use of our 
property rights. We therefore created a new 
unilateral software license to allow nonprofits 
in certain countries/regions to use Microsoft 
software freely and legally. (See the Nonprofits 
section of this report for more information on 
the unilateral license). We also offered legal 
assistance to nonprofits in countries/regions 
that experienced any government challenges 
because of Microsoft software piracy accusations. 

Political change in the Middle East: In early 
2011 there were uprisings against incumbent 
governments in Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, Yemen, 
and other countries/regions. Microsoft believes 
that, ultimately, the choice of government is for 
the people of those countries/regions to make. 
However, we also believe that we have a role to 
play through our technology in helping those 
people use technology for civic engagement 
and to foster more sustainable societies.

Since the change in governments in Egypt and 
Tunisia, Microsoft has contributed to reform 
efforts. For example, we have supplied e-case 

65

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Privacy and Safety: Freedom of Expression

and data management software to three Tunisian 
government commissions that are managing 
reform efforts: Human Rights Abuse Commission, 
Political Reform Commission, and Stolen  
Assets Commission.  

•  Strategic litigation by the International 

Human Rights Clinic in the inter-American  
human rights system, aimed at defining  
new precedents to help protect  
press freedom

•  A speaker series on Internet freedom  

and human rights law

•  Research, writing, and academic 

conferences on Internet freedom topics

•  Continuing our sponsorship of the 
Personal Democracy Forum, which 
helps share knowledge and insight on 
the use of technology in campaigns, 
organizing, and civic engagement.

•  Hosting the fifth U.S.-China Internet 

Industry Forum, bringing together leaders 
from the United States and Chinese 
governments, industry, and civil society 
for candid discussions about Internet 
policy issues, including free expression.

•  Continuing to provide financial and in-
kind support to efforts to promote rule 
of law (including respect for freedom of 
expression). Specific efforts include support 
for the World Justice Project and for pro 
bono legal work by Microsoft employees.

In Egypt, where youth unemployment has 
been an ongoing issue, Microsoft has increased 
its investment in programs that support 
entrepreneurship and job creation. We are 
employing a multi-stakeholder initiative, Egypt 
Works, to design and finance job creation and 
training programs to help youth graduates 
become better qualified with the skills that they 
need to enter the workforce. 

Microsoft is also reaching out to nonprofit 
organizations to support relief efforts in 
humanitarian disasters and to support capacity 
building for this sector, which is vital to the 
rebuilding of the country. Recently more than 
300,000 people fled the crisis in Libya and 
resettled in Egypt, where they found limited 
support and unemployment challenges were 
already pressing. Microsoft Egypt developed 
a simple cloud-based database to enable the 
International Organization for Migration to 
track returnees to Egypt from Libya and to 
reach out to provide direct assistance to them.

What’s Next 

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Providing financial support for the George 
Washington University Law School’s work 
on Internet freedom and human rights. 
We will specifically support three areas: 

66

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
Working Responsibly: Integrity and Governance

Integrity and Governance

“ We were an early adopter of majority voting, the first company to adopt say on pay, and one 
of the very earliest adopters of a no-fault clawback. We continue to evaluate our corporate 
governance framework, and talk with our Board about what is right for us and our shareholders.”

  — John Seethoff, Vice President and Deputy General Counsel

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Trust in U.S. based corporations is near an all-time low. Good corporate governance practices 
build trust, create internal checks and balances, and strengthen management accountability. 

Challenges

Opportunities

•  The global financial crisis has amplified 

•  Expanding and deepening dialogue and  

public distrust in corporations. 

partnership with stakeholders

•  Financial scandals cause people to question 

•  Advancing best practices through voluntary  

the management of large businesses. 

principles and disclosures

•  Shareholders feel a lack of control 
over the companies that they own.

•  Working through stakeholder collaboration 
and engagement to help address mistrust

67

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Integrity and Governance: Corporate Governance

What We’re Doing 

ENGAGING WITH OTHERS ON 
INDUSTRY BEST PRACTICES

ENGAGING PROACTIVELY  
WITH STAKEHOLDERS 

•  Microsoft sent its annual letter to our 
50 largest investors from members 
of the Governance and Nominating 
Committee of the Board. 

•  At least twice annually, members of 
management engage with a broad 
spectrum of our investors, including public 
pension funds and those representing 
the socially responsible investment 
community. The investors whom we 
contacted hold about 40 percent of shares 
outstanding. The Board receives a summary 
of feedback from these discussions.

•  We redesigned and expanded the Corporate 
Governance and Citizenship content on 
the Microsoft Investor Relations website.

•  We regularly contribute governance-
focused blog posts through the 
Microsoft on the Issues blog.

We engaged in cross-industry dialogues through 
the Conference Board Governance Center; 
Stanford Institutional Investors’ Forum; the 
Society of Corporate Secretaries and Governance 
Professionals; the Millstein Center for Corporate 
Governance and Performance; and the Council 
of Institutional Investors to help identify and 
contribute to the development of best practices.

MANAGING RISK AT THE BOARD LEVEL

Microsoft expanded its disclosure related to 
the role of the Board and its committees in risk 
management. The Board exercises direct oversight 
of strategic risks to the company. The Audit 
Committee reviews and assesses the company’s 
processes to manage business and financial 
risk and financial reporting risk. It also reviews 
the company’s policies for risk assessment and 
assesses the steps that management has taken to 
control significant risks. The Finance Committee 
oversees investment, tax, foreign exchange, 
and other financial risks. The Compensation 
Committee oversees risks related to compensation 
programs and policies. The Antitrust Compliance 
Committee oversees competition law-related risks. 
In each case, management periodically reports 
to our Board or the relevant committee, which 
provides guidance on risk appetite, assessment, 
and mitigation. Each committee charged with risk 
oversight reports to our Board on those matters.

68

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Integrity and Governance: Corporate Governance

MAINTAINING OUR STRONG 
PRACTICES AND PERFORMANCE

• 

• 

In FY2011, Microsoft achieved strong 
ratings from independent agencies.

Independent members of the Board appointed 
Reed Hastings, founder, chairman, and CEO of  
Netflix Inc., as the Board’s lead independent 
director in December 2010. The lead 
independent director coordinates the activities  
of the independent directors, coordinates 
with the CEO and corporate secretary to 
set the agenda for Board meetings, chairs 
executive sessions of the independent 
directors, and performs other duties 
as determined by the Board. 

9.5Global Market 

Rating

1

2

3

4

5

6

*As of May 15, 2011

7

8
9
10
Governance Metrics International
(based on a 10-point scale, with 10 being the best) 

69

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report134,854*Registered Holders of Record ofCommon Stock8,378,265,782*Shares of Microsoft CommonStock Outstanding7Number of BoardMeetings HeldYESAnnual Board, Committee, and Individual Member EvaluationsYESSINCE2004Lead IndependentDirectorYESSINCE 2000Separate Chairmanand CEO100%Independence of DirectorsServing on Board Committees5Number ofBoard Committees78%Percentage ofIndependent  Directors9Number ofDirectors*As of July 20, 2011Working Responsibly: Integrity and Governance: Corporate Governance

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Maintaining or increasing dialogue 

between shareholders and the company.

•  Engaging in cross-industry forums to 
help us identify and contribute to the 
development of best practices. 

•  Continuing to enhance our corporate 
governance principles and policies to 
serve the interests of our shareholders 
and other stakeholders.

• 

Implementing the regulatory and 
disclosure requirements adopted under 
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act. 

70

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Integrity and Governance: Public Policy

PUBLIC POLICY

Political advocacy lets us promote our interests while sharing 
expertise and contributing to policies. Ultimately, we want 
what is good for both our business and society. 

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

•  The public is understandably concerned by 
the influence of companies in government.

•  Political advocacy is often seen as being 

done behind closed doors outside 
the view of the general public. 

•  Governments sometimes lack technical 
expertise, particularly in emerging 
fields such as cloud computing.

Opportunities

•  Taking action on issues of joint 
concern for companies and the 
public, e.g. education and jobs

•  Contributing expertise on technical 

issues to help create policies

• 

Implementing strong guidelines and 
principles for corporate engagement 
to effectively prevent abuses 

ENGAGING TRANSPARENTLY 
WITH POLICYMAKERS

Public policy engagement: Microsoft 
engages in public policy discussions that 
directly relate to our business. We update 
our public policy agenda annually to reflect 
changes in the policy environment and in 
our business. Our FY2011 policy agenda 
(PDF file, 334 KB) focused on strengthening 
economies, addressing societal challenges, 
and promoting a healthy online ecosystem. 

Advocacy: In compliance with regulations 
and our commitment to transparency, 
Microsoft regularly files reports that detail our 
advocacy activities. Our disclosures include 
consultant fees, lobbying expenses, and 
trade association dues spent on advocacy. 

Memberships: Microsoft is a member of a 
number of trade associations and business 
coalitions globally that help us work collectively 
with industry peers to advance issues that affect 
our business and society. Our advocacy expense 
disclosures include association dues spent on 

71

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Integrity and Governance: Public Policy

*The revised amount for FY2010 state-level expenditures now includes lobbying expenses for state government affairs work and 
state trade association dues spent on advocacy, in addition to consultant fees which were reported previously.

advocacy. A full list of the trade associations 
and business coalitions supported by our 
Corporate Affairs group in the United States 
is available through the political engagement 
section of the Microsoft Corporate Citizenship 
website. In FY2012, we will also be reporting on 
our memberships outside the United States. 

Microsoft amended these principles in 
June 2010 to clarify that Microsoft will not 
make independent political expenditures or 
electioneering communications as are now 
permitted after the U.S. Supreme Court’s 
decision in the Citizens United case. 

ADHERING TO STRICT PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES

Participating in the political process in the 
United States: Our engagement in the political 
process in the United States is governed by ten 
principles (PDF file, 98 KB). These include: 

•  Political spending will reflect the company’s 
interests and be used to further its public 
policy agenda and not the personal agenda 
of individual officers, directors, or employees. 

•  Microsoft does not make corporate 

contributions to any non-candidate or 
nonparty political committee organized under 
section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code. 

•  No campaign contributions are given 
in anticipation of, in recognition of, 
or in return for an official act. 

Contributing to U.S. political candidates:  
The Microsoft Political Action Committee 
(MSPAC) provides opportunity for Microsoft 
employees and shareholders to participate in the 
U.S. political process and jointly support public 
policy positions that are important to Microsoft 
and the software industry. MSPAC is a bipartisan 
organization that contributes to the campaigns 
of federal, state, and local candidates. MSPAC 
typically supports candidates who share Microsoft 
views on public policy, serve as congressional or 
legislative leaders, represent districts or states 
where Microsoft has a major business presence, 
or serve on committees that have jurisdiction 
over legislation that is important to the company. 
For the last calendar year (2010), MSPAC made 
political contributions totaling $1,472,350.

In addition to the contributions made by 
MSPAC, Microsoft as a company contributed 
$107,400 to state and local political 
campaigns in calendar year 2010. 

72

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Integrity and Governance: Public Policy

* 2010 was a U.S. congressional election year. MSPAC contributions in 2010 
were higher than those in 2009 as a result of increased political activity. 

Microsoft does not support political candidates 
or campaigns outside of the United States. 

•  Working with investors and advocates 
to continue enhancing openness, 
transparency, and accountability.

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Completing a review and an update of our 
U.S. Political Principles; updates will include 
applying our disclosure requirements to 
a broader group of trade associations.

•  Releasing an updated public policy agenda 
to share our priorities and areas of focus.

•  Co-chairing the Conference Board’s newly 
formed Committee on Corporate Political 
Spending and, with fellow committee 
members, developing and publishing a 
report that provides corporations with 
resources to strengthen their governance 
practices in disclosure and accountability.

•  Sharing best practices and lessons 

with other corporations.

73

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportWorking Responsibly: Compliance

Compliance

Compliance with laws and regulations is fundamental to working responsibly. 
Microsoft’s goal is to meet or exceed legal requirements by conducting our 
business ethically, responsibly, and with integrity. This is about doing the right 
thing and creating trust and not just about maintaining our license to operate.

Challenges

What We’re Doing 

• 

It is complicated to mandate accountability 
for compliance standards among more 
than 90,000 employees and contractors 
who work in many languages and 
across more than 100 jurisdictions.

•  The different legal standards and expectations 
of many different countries and jurisdictions 
can be challenging to integrate.

Opportunities

•  Going beyond training to build a 
strong culture of accountability

•  Building trust with governments and 

industry stakeholders by adhering to laws 
and operating by our own guidelines

•  Spurring technology innovation by 

enabling companies to build on one 
another’s products and platforms

COMPETING RESPONSIBLY 
WITHIN OUR INDUSTRY

Supporting web standards: With the 
release of Windows® Internet Explorer® 9, 
we published more than 40 documents that 
explain its support for web standards, as 
required by the European Undertaking. No 
other browser vendor provides this depth of 
documentation regarding use of web standards. 

Promoting innovation, choice, and 
opportunities: We adhere to a range of 
principles, including our Interoperability Principles, 
to ensure that our products continue to promote 
innovation, user choice, and opportunities for 
developers. These principles have been kept front 
of mind in our development of new products 
and services, such as Microsoft Office 365.

Acquiring Skype: Our acquisition of Skype was 
cleared by the U.S. Department of Justice in June 
2011 and will be reviewed in other jurisdictions 
over the coming months. We believe the  
merger will enhance competition and bring 

74

2011 Corporate Citizenship Reporta range of new communication services 
and choices to people around the world. 

Responding to the i4i ruling: In June 2011 the 
U.S. Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Canadian 
company i4i, which claimed that Microsoft 
violated certain patent rights related to an XML 
technique that was implemented in Microsoft 
Word. Although Microsoft’s arguments were 
supported by Apple, Facebook, Cisco, and many 
other leading companies, the U.S. Supreme Court 
ruled that the i4i innovation was patentable, 
enforcing a $290 million award against Microsoft.

RESPECTING ANTITRUST LAWS AND PRINCIPLES

We have continued to comply with antitrust 
rulings and applied principles that support 
innovation, choice, and opportunities for 
developers in the development of new products 
and services. On May 12, 2011, the U.S. Consent 
Decree that ended the competition lawsuit 
against Microsoft in the late 1990s reached its 
termination date. The U.S. Department of Justice, 
various state attorneys general, and the court 
overseeing compliance concluded that no further 
extensions were warranted and that Microsoft had 
met its obligations under the decree, including its 
documentation obligations for various Windows 
protocols. The experience under these orders 
has shaped how we view our responsibilities 
and how we compete fairly in the market.

A broad range of competition exists in the 
market today. That includes new operating 
systems from Apple, Google, and other 
software developers for all kinds of devices, 
including PCs and smartphones. 

Working Responsibly: Compliance

VIEWPOINT 

Huguette Labelle 
Chair of the Board of 
Transparency International

Strong leadership in corporate citizenship is 
invaluable. In recognizing the importance of 
accountability and responsibility, companies commit 
to live by them by developing Codes of Ethics or 
Conduct, and they demonstrate that commitment 
by reporting on their compliance with them. 

The commitments of the IT industry to the principles 
of transparency and third-party assessment included 
in the Global Network Initiative—which brings 
together civil society, academics, and investors 
concerned with freedom and privacy in IT and of 
which Microsoft is part—are to be welcomed as 
further support of anticorruption efforts by business.

Unless a commitment to integrity is widespread, and a 
zero-tolerance approach enforced, companies face the 
risk that an employee or partner company will break 
trust and flout the rules to win business through bribery. 

Compliance guidelines have become more common in 
the business world—more than four in five companies 
have a formal compliance programme, according to 
a recent KPMG survey. To make the code a practical 
part of a business, companies need to provide training 
programmes that are dedicated to helping staff. There is 
no lack of practical guidelines that help train personnel. 

In addition, the UN Global Compact provides a 
template for self-assessment. Further reporting 
and compliance guidance comes from other 
organizations like the International Chamber of 
Commerce and Transparency International.

The true test of compliance is whether it happens 
where it is most needed: on the front line. A Code 
of Conduct gets a passing grade only after a 
culture of integrity, transparency, and accountability 
permeates an organization, from top to bottom.

Transparency International is the global civil society 
organization that is leading the fight against corruption.

75

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
 
 
Working Responsibly: Compliance

TRAINING EMPLOYEES 

In FY2011, more than 99 percent of 
Microsoft employees received training on 
our Standards of Business Conduct, which 
includes topics such as anticorruption, 
conflicts of interest, and financial integrity. 
This training was delivered in eight languages. 
It is authorized by our Board of Directors 
and is filed publicly with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ. 

Each year, a survey measures employee 
satisfaction with the training provided. The 
FY2011 survey showed that employees were 
extremely satisfied with the training, scoring 
the program 167 out of 200. This was broadly 
consistent with the score achieved in 2010.

for transnational collaboration and enabling 
a new knowledge management portal. 

•  Supporting the International Anti-Corruption 
Academy in sharing private-sector expertise 
on compliance and anticorruption.

•  Being recognized by and receiving 

awards from groups such as Ethisphere 
Magazine, Corporate Secretary magazine, 
and the American Business Awards for the 
effectiveness of our compliance efforts 
and quality of our online compliance 
and ethics training initiatives.

What’s Next

OUR PRIORITIES FOR FY2012 INCLUDE: 

•  Working in partnership with governments 
around the world and intergovernmental 
organizations to achieve new compliance 
and ethical standards that create meaningful 
governmental guidance and industry practice.

•  Adhering to our principles and releasing 

technical information about new Microsoft 
products to enable interoperability.

•  Maintaining collaboration with international 
governance organizations and industry to 
promote good governance and compliance 
practices, particularly related to anticorruption.

PROMOTING GLOBAL COMPLIANCE  
AND GOVERNANCE EFFORTS 

We work with industry peers and 
global organizations to promote good 
governance and compliance practices. 
Our achievements have included:

•  Promoting anticorruption initiatives among 

intergovernmental organizations and 
other multinational companies through 
our membership in the World Economic 
Forum Partnership Against Corruption 
Initiative. This engagement also shows 
our support for the United Nations Global 
Compact principles on anticorruption. 

•  Partnering with the United Nations Office on 

Drugs and Crime to develop a technology tool 
to help in the fight against corruption and 
organized crime. The effort is creating a tool 

76

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportGlobal Reporting  
Initiative Index

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provides the 
leading framework for corporate sustainability reporting 
based on input from a wide range of civil society 
organizations, labor, businesses, academics, and other 
experts. This index provides our specific responses for 
many performance indicators recommended by the GRI. 

For more information and downloads, view this  
report online at www.microsoft.com/citizenshipreport.

77

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportAbout This Report

Reporting Year 

Unless otherwise stated, information 
in this report is related to fiscal year 
2011 (July 2010 to June 2011). 

Scope

As part of Microsoft’s global Citizenship 
initiative, this report covers Microsoft 
nonfinancial performance and impact in 
FY2011 across our global operations. 

The report covers our material Citizenship 
issues based on internal assessments, ongoing 
engagement with stakeholders ranging from 
socially responsible investors to our own 
employees, and requests for information by 
corporate responsibility rating agencies. In 
particular, this year we conducted a gap analysis 
between the information provided in our FY2010 
Citizenship Report and the information requests 
that we received from stakeholders during 
FY2011 to enhance the information provided.

to help determine relevant content and 
metrics for this report. An index of our 
performance on GRI indicators can be found 
in the GRI Index section of this report. 

As we committed to in our FY2010 Citizenship 
Report and based on feedback from our various 
stakeholders, we solicited external perspectives as 
part of this year’s reporting process. In this year’s 
report, seven external experts contributed their 
comments on the issues that affect Microsoft’s 
business through “Viewpoint” columns in select 
sections. These experts did not participate in 
the writing or reviewing of the report itself. 

Links are provided throughout the report 
for more detailed information. 

Additional Reporting

This report was released at the same time that 
the Microsoft FY2011 Annual Financial Report 
was released. These reports complement 
each other and together provide a full 
picture of Microsoft over the past year. 

We also relied on the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 

Although these two reports are one of 
the most important ways that we report 

78

2011 Corporate Citizenship ReportAbout This Report

Feedback

We welcome your feedback on this report and on 
the Microsoft Citizenship approach. Please email 
your comments to mcitizen@microsoft.com or 
write to us at the following address: 

Microsoft Corporate Citizenship 
Microsoft Corporation 
One Microsoft Way 
Redmond, WA 98052, USA

to our stakeholders, there are many other 
ways in which we report on our actions 
throughout the year. These include:

•  Ongoing direct dialogue with a broad 

range of stakeholder groups, as well as with 
industry and issue-advocacy organizations.

•  Updates to our Citizenship website, 

blogs, Facebook, and Twitter to reflect 
recent initiatives and progress.

•  Research and white papers on specific issues.

•  Economic impact data and hundreds of  
stories through the Microsoft Local  
Impact Map.

•  An annual submission to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project. 

In addition, you can find our annual 
Communication of Progress to the  
UN Global Compact, the UN Millennium 
Development Goals, and our OneReport data 
in the GRI Index section of this report.

79

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report 
PLEASE RECYCLE 
Thank you.

This document is provided “as-is.” Information and views expressed in 
this document, including URL and other Internet website references, 
may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. 

This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any 
Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

© 2011 Microsoft. All rights reserved. 

Microsoft, Bing, BizSpark, Dynamics, Excel, Hotmail, Internet Explorer, Kinect, Lync, 
Mediaroom, MSN, OneNote, PhotoDNA, PowerPoint, SharePoint, Silverlight, SkyDrive, 
SQL Azure, SQL Server, Visual Studio, Windows, Windows Azure, Windows Intune, 
Windows Live, Windows Server, Xbox 360, and Xbox LIVE are trademarks of the Microsoft 
group of companies. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.

80

2011 Corporate Citizenship Report