M

Citizenship Report

 Customers     Partners + Developers     Community     Environment     Employees

 2003

Your potential. Our passion.™

 
Chairman / CEO Introduction 

Company Overview 

Part 1:  Partnering with Customers 

Part 2:  Responsible Leadership 

Part 3:  Strengthening Communities 

Part 4:  Managing Environmental Impact 

Part 5:  Employees 

p. 01

p. 02

p. 06 

p. 14

p. 20

p. 26

p. 30

Additional copies of this report can be ordered by sending e-mail to csr@microsoft.com. An online version is also available for download at 
www.microsoft.com/mscorp/citizenship.

 
 
 
 
 
Chairman/CEO Introduction     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 01

We see this report as an opportunity to share how 

we view our roles and responsibilities as a global indus-

try leader and corporate citizen, and to enhance our 

communication with our many stakeholders about the 

ways we fulfill them. In this overview, you may discover 

things you never knew about Microsoft —from how we 

create innovative new technologies to how we empower 

people who have disabilities, and from how we support 

and advance open technology standards to how we 

strengthen communities worldwide.

Microsoft’s mission is to enable peo-

and healthy by communicating 

ple and businesses throughout the 
world to realize their full potential. 

openly about our business practices, 
being transparent about our perform-

It is grounded in six core values that 

ance, and remaining accountable 

are the foundation of our business, 

for our conduct.

could not otherwise reap the benefits 

of technology. We also aim to do 

even more to deliver the best value for 

our customers and partners; to in-

crease our transparency as a company; 

to make the Internet a safe and trust-

worthy environment for everyone; to 

limit our environmental impact and 

conserve natural resources; and to 

provide an outstanding work environ-

ment for our employees.

We are unceasingly optimistic about 

the future of technology and the posi-

tive things it can do for people world-

wide. And while we’re proud of what 

we’ve accomplished, we’re even more 

excited about the opportunities that 

and expresses our conviction that 

it takes more than great products to 

make a great company. We believe 

that our mission, although ambitious, 

is achievable. But we also know that 

we can’t do it alone.

As Microsoft has grown as a company, 

lie ahead for our company and, in part-

we have learned a lot about what 

nership with others, for the global 

it takes to build trust and keep it, to 

community.

earn respect and return it, and to 

create the kind of business environ-

ment that inspires successful partner-

Our business is built on relation-

ships and collaboration. We know 

ships—with our customers, partners, 

that our decisions have significant 

investors, and employees, and with 

ramifications for other companies, and 

the many countries and communities 

for people and communities world-

around the world where we live and 

wide. We take that responsibility very 

work. These relationships are cru-

seriously.

cial to us, and they depend on the 

choices we make and the actions we 

take every day — as a company and 

as individuals. We are committed to 

keeping those relationships strong 

Global citizenship, like the rest of our 

business, is a work in progress. This 

overview simply provides a snapshot 

of where we stand today, because 

every program and activity highlighted 

here is active and ongoing. We look 

forward to continuing to make a lasting 

difference in the lives we touch and 

the communities where we do busi-

ness, and to empowering more people 

who—because of age, geography, phys-

ical disability, or economic barriers—

Steven A. Ballmer              
Chief Executive Officer 

Bill Gates 
Chairman and Chief 
Software Architect

  
Page 02    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Company Overview    

Company Overview

Microsoft is still a young, innovative company in an extremely dynamic 

industry. We’ve come a long way in a short time, but the global business 

environment in which we operate is evolving rapidly, too. Companies 

worldwide are being challenged in new ways — not only to offer better 

products and services, but also to enhance their corporate governance and 

provide greater transparency in how they conduct their business. At 

Microsoft, we have made changes in our organization that are designed 

to provide better customer service, create more opportunities for partners, 

and enhance our contributions as a responsible industry leader.

The Journey So Far

In 1975, most people had never heard 

of personal computers. You couldn’t 

even buy one — unless you wanted to 

buy a kit and build it yourself. Collab-

orating with co-workers meant poring 

over photocopies or, worse, carbon 

copies of documents. And for commu-

on the first “personal computer,” the 
MITS Altair 8800. Microsoft® BASIC, 
and the many software programs 

that soon followed from our develop-

ers and partners, helped spark a 

worldwide technology revolution that 

has transformed the way people live, 

work, learn, and are entertained.

nication, we relied entirely on tele-

Bill’s and Paul’s early vision of a com-

phones or the mail.

Microsoft co-founders Bill Gates and 

Paul Allen saw the potential to turn 

a hobbyist’s toy into something more. 

They wrote a version of the BASIC 

software language that would work 

puter on every desk and in every 

home seemed like a fantasy to most 

people when the two friends founded 

what was then called Micro-Soft. 

Today, it’s almost a reality. More than 

1 billion personal computers have 

now been sold around the world, 

along with billions of other digital 

devices, all able to share information 

in amazing ways.

Company Overview     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 03

What fueled this revolution was the 

on the environment, we recycle and 

n  Self-critical, questioning, and 

belief that software — if made afford-

reuse many materials to conserve 

committed to personal excellence 

able and accessible to more people—

natural resources. We work hard to 

and self-improvement

would remove barriers and transform 

maintain a positive work environment 

technology into an extraordinary 

for our employees and vendors. And, 

tool that would empower millions of 

underlying it all, we create innovative 

people around the world.

software that helps change the world 

n  Accountable for commitments, results, 

and quality to customers, share-

holders, partners, and employees

operating systems to Internet services 

Our Core Values

Today, Microsoft employs more than 

54,000 people in over 80 countries. 

From programming languages and 

and games, we’ve created just about 

every kind of computer program 

imaginable. And we’ve never lost our 

passion for developing great software 

that enables people and businesses 

throughout the world to realize their 

full potential.

As Microsoft has grown, so have our 

responsibilities as a global industry 

leader. Those responsibilities require 

us not only to compete, but also 

to collaborate. We make investments 

that help build the communities where 

we do business, and create oppor-

tunities for people who are disadvan-

taged. To ensure that the way we 

operate our business limits our impact 

by empowering people to transform 

Our Mission

their lives and open the door to their 

individual dreams.

Our mission grew out of our core 

values and remains closely aligned 

with them. It is to enable people and 

businesses throughout the world to 

realize their full potential.

Six core values guide Microsoft and 

serve as the foundation for everything 

we do. More than a corporate philos-

Organized for Service

ophy, our values are as fundamental 

to our business as an operating system 

is to a personal computer. They are:

n  Integrity and honesty

n  Passion for customers, partners, 

and technology

n  Open and respectful with others, 

and dedicated to making them better

n  Willingness to take on big 

challenges and see them through

We have organized Microsoft around 

seven core business groups, because 

we believe this structure offers us 

the best opportunity to serve our cus-

tomers— and to provide our investors 

and partners with a clearer view of 

how we operate our business and gov-

ern the company. Those business 

groups are:

n  Windows® Client, including the 

Microsoft Windows XP, Windows 

2000, and Windows Embedded 

operating systems

  
Page 04    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Company Overview    

n  Information Worker, including 

Just as we constantly update and 

prehensive education and compli-

Microsoft Office, Microsoft Publisher, 

improve our products, we want to con-

ance assurance program at Microsoft, 

Microsoft Visio®, Microsoft Project, 

tinually evolve our company to ensure 

which addresses employment law, 

and other stand-alone desktop 

that we are always in the best position 

anti-discrimination statutes, privacy, 

applications

to create innovative new technolo-

civil rights, securities, international 

gies—and to provide outstanding serv- 

trade interactions, competition law, 

ice to our customers. 

and many other areas. 

n  Business Solutions, encompassing 

Great Plains® and Navision® business 

process applications, and bCentral™ 

business services

n  Server Platforms, including the 

Microsoft Windows Server™ System 

integrated server software, software 

developer tools, and MSDN®

Business Operations

Responsible corporate citizenship 

is defined by good behavior, not good 

intentions. At Microsoft, we’re proud 

of the way we operate every aspect 

of our business, and maintaining that 

n  Mobile and Embedded Devices, 

high standard is the responsibility of 

including the Pocket PC, the Mobile 

every Microsoft employee, contractor, 

Explorer microbrowser, and 

and vendor. That’s why we have codes 

the Smartphone software platform

of conduct, environmental policies, 

n  MSN®, including the MSN network, 

MSN Internet Access, MSN TV, 

MSN Hotmail®, and other Web-based 

services

n  Home & Entertainment, including 

Microsoft Xbox®, consumer hardware 

and software, online games, and 

our TV platform

and other guidelines that spell out ex-

actly what we expect from the people 

who work at, and with, Microsoft.

Office of Legal Compliance

We created the Office of Legal Com-

pliance at Microsoft as a resource 

to enhance ethical business practices 

and our ability to comply with a wide 

range of legal obligations, and to help 

our employees and vendors under-

stand their responsibilities under the 

law. We have established a com-

Employees who need guidance about 

a business practice or compliance 

issue, or who wish to report a compli-

ance concern, can call the Business 

Conduct Line at (877) 320-6738 

or contact the director of compliance 

directly. Employees outside the 

United States can call the Business 

Conduct Line collect by accessing an 

international operator and asking to 

place a collect call to (704) 540-0139. 

Partners, customers, or others out-

side the company who have concerns 

about compliance or Microsoft 

business practices may report their 

concerns to the Office of Legal 

Compliance by calling the 

Business Conduct Line, e-mailing 
msft.buscond@alertline.com or 
buscond@microsoft.com, 
or sending a confidential fax to 

the director of compliance at 

(425) 705-2985. For more informa-
tion, please visit www.microsoft.com/
mscorp/legal/buscond/.

Company Overview     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 05

Codes of Conduct

are uniquely empowered to ensure 

ethnic diversity, and our equal 

Microsoft’s Standards of Business 

that all stakeholders’ interests are 

opportunity employment policies. 

Conduct apply to all our employees, 

appropriately balanced, protected, 

Partners, customers, or others 

and set clear guidelines for them 

and preserved. The Finance Code of 

outside the company who have con-

to follow when they are conducting 

Professional Conduct sets out prin-

cerns about Microsoft’s procurement 

business on behalf of the company. 

ciples and rules regarding individual 

practices should contact the director 

Every employee receives training to 

and peer responsibilities, as well as 

of compliance. For information on 

acquaint them with these standards 

responsibilities to fellow employees, 

and the company’s high expectations.

the public, and other stakeholders. 

We also have codes of professional 

conduct that apply specifically to em-

ployees who are engaged in certain 

types of business activities. For exam-

ple, the Procurement Code of Profes-

sional Conduct applies to anyone at 

Microsoft who is involved in procure-

ment or supply-chain management 

If you have a concern regarding a 

questionable accounting or auditing 

contracting.asp.

matter and wish to submit the con-

cern confidentially or anonymously, 

you may do so by sending an e-mail, 

calling the Business Conduct Line, or 

sending a letter or fax to the director 

of compliance as outlined above.

our procurement practices and poli-
cies, please visit www.microsoft.com/
mscorp/procurement/process/

activities, such as negotiating con-

Vendor Code of Conduct

tracts, managing vendor relationships, 

As part of our commitment to pro-

and monitoring service delivery.

vide a positive work environment 

Another code of professional conduct 

applies to employees who work in 

Microsoft Finance and manage the 

company’s financial affairs worldwide. 

Employees of our finance organization 

hold an important and elevated role 

in corporate governance, because they 

at Microsoft, we require our vendors 

and their representatives to adhere 

to the same professional standards 

of behavior that we expect from our 

employees. The Microsoft Vendor 

Code of Conduct covers everything 

from harassment to the use of e-mail 

and online resources, and makes it 

clear that we expect our vendors 

to share our support of cultural and 

  
Partnering with Our Customers, 
Investing in Their Future

Part  1

At Microsoft, we’re motivated and inspired every 

day by how our customers use our software — finding 

creative solutions to business problems, developing 

breakthrough ideas, and staying connected to the people 

and information that are most important to them.

 
Partnering with Customers     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 07

“ Microsoft is 100 percent committed to delivering new 

opportunities for our partners and enabling them to realize 

We are focused on delivering great 

their potential. Our $500 million investment in partner 

value to our customers and giving 

them an outstanding customer experi-

ence, based on exceptional service 

programs and services underscores our commitment to 

partner satisfaction, and our focus on delivering the stron-

and state-of-the-art technical support. 

gest technology platform through Microsoft .NET and 

Our ability to achieve this depends on 

how we interact and engage with our 

XML Web services.”

customers, how we team up with part-

  Steve Ballmer, CEO, Microsoft Corporation

ners to deliver great solutions, and 

how well our business groups collab-

to help employees access customer 

orate to provide software and solutions 

satisfaction data and see for them-

that help our customers realize their 

selves what feedback our customers 

potential.

have on our products, services, and 

The key is to continually strengthen 

business policies. 

our relationships with customers—

The Microsoft Customer Satisfaction 

from individual home users to the 

Dashboard is unique in our industry 

largest multinational corporations —

and an important breakthrough for 

and to ensure that their voices are 

our company, but it is only one part 

heard and heeded in every aspect of 

of our larger vision to bring the 

voices of our customers directly into 

Microsoft. In all of our contacts with 

customers— from sales and support 

services to focus groups and usability 

studies— we strive to strengthen the 

connection between our customers 

and employees. Our goal is make sure 

the feedback we hear from customers 

is factored into all of our products 

and programs, and into the business 

decisions we make every day.

our business.

Listening to Our Customers

Every year at Microsoft we conduct 

a comprehensive survey called the 

Microsoft Worldwide Customer and 

Partner Satisfaction Study. Our 

most recent study resulted in more 

than 30,000 completed customer 

and partner interviews in 70 locations 

around the world. As part of our 

commitment to be a highly customer-

focused company, we make this 

information available to Microsoft 

employees worldwide through the 

Microsoft Customer Satisfaction Dash-

board—a simple but powerful tool 

  
Page 08   Microsoft Citizenship Report     Partnering with Customers  

Supporting Our Customers

Our support Web sites receive more 

Microsoft Product Support Services 

(PSS) provides worldwide customer 

service and technical support for 

Microsoft customers— from individual 

than 200 million customer visits 

annually, and provide a rich set of self-

help tools and content tailored to 

specific customer segments and needs.

consumers to the largest multina-

Customer Feedback

tional corporations. Support offerings 

include a vast array of self-help, assist-

ed support, and managed support 

services to meet our customers’ needs. 

We deploy approximately 9,000 

support professionals around the 

world as part of our ongoing effort to 

reach more customers and keep our 

support teams close to them. PSS pro-

vides continuous technical support 

and customer service for more than 

170 different products— 24 hours 

a day, 365 days a year — and handles 

more than 6 million support cases 

every year via telephone, Web, and 

on-site contact.

Another way we are supporting cus-

tomers is by using feedback to im-

prove customer experiences with our 

new error reporting tools. This lets 

customers choose to send us an error 

report whenever anything goes wrong 

with a Microsoft application or oper-

ating system, which helps us gather 

real-world data about the causes of 

customers’ problems. Error reporting 

is now built into Office, Windows, 

and most of our other major products.

One thing we’ve learned from these 

error reports is that about 20 percent 

of software bugs cause 80 percent 

of all errors. Even more incredible, 

1 percent of the bugs cause half of all 

errors. Knowing this allows us to 

prioritize debugging work on our soft-

ware to achieve the biggest improve-

ments for customers in the least time.

Partnering with Customers     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 09

Error reports help identify bugs not 

or as common as the inevitable chang-

“Microsoft Assistive Technology 

only in our own software, but also 

es in vision, hearing, and dexterity 

Vendor Program,” which includes an 

in Windows-based applications made 

that come with age, they can have pro-

online catalog that makes it easy 

by independent hardware and soft-

found effects on a person’s ability to 

for customers to locate and purchase 

ware vendors. About 450 companies 

live and work productively. 

Windows-compatible assistive tech-

have accessed our shared database 

for error reports related to their prod-

ucts, and are using that information 

to make dramatic improvements. 

We’ve also created software that en-

ables corporate customers to redirect 

error reports to their own servers, 

so that administrators can find and 

resolve the problems that are having 
the greatest effect on their systems.

At Microsoft, our dedication to acces-

sibility reaches back as far as 1988 and 

the launch of Windows 2.0. It contin-

ues today with the unique accessibility 

features built into Office XP and 

nology products. To access the Assis-

tive Technology Vendor Program 

online catalog, please visit 

www.microsoft.com/enable/at/

search.asp.

Windows XP. Since our initial involve-

We also support many nonprofit or-

ment with accessibility issues, we have 

ganizations that work to increase 

continued our dedication to improv-

education, training, and employment 

ing the accessibility of our products 

opportunities for people with disa-

and creating new and better technolo-

bilities. For example, we teamed with 

Our Commitment to Accessibility

gies that everyone can use. Many 

the American Association of People 

One example of Microsoft listening 

and responding to customers is our 

longstanding commitment to develop-

ing accessible technology that creates 

new opportunities for people with 

disabilities. Microsoft is continually 

technology features that were original-

with Disabilities (AAPD) to establish 

ly designed to assist people with dis-

the Federal Internship Program. In 

abilities —such as adjustable font sizes 

2003 and 2004, this program will pro-

and audible alerts—can help others 

vide paid, IT-focused summer intern-

tailor their work environment to their 

ships at U.S. government agencies for 

particular preferences and needs.

25 college students with disabilities. 

A $325,000 grant from Microsoft will 

provide each student with a stipend, 

free accessible housing and transpor-

tation, and any special worksite accom- 

modations that may be necessary.

exploring and evolving accessibility 

Our Accessible Technology Group 

solutions that are integrated with 

(ATG) has approximately 40 people 

our products.

According to the United Nations, 

10 percent of the world’s population—

more than 600 million people—have 

some kind of disability. Whether those 

disabilities are as serious as amputa-

tion, blindness, deafness, or paralysis, 

working with product developers, 

assistive technology companies, and 

disability advocates to help ensure 

that people with disabilities can use 

software developed by Microsoft and 

other companies. The overall mission 

of ATG is to make accessibility an 

integral part of all Microsoft platforms, 

products, programs, and services. In 

addition, ATG increases awareness of 

what is possible today with accessi-

ble technology. ATG also manages the 

  
Page 10   Microsoft Citizenship Report     Partnering with Customers

Case studies and other 
information are available at: 
www.microsoft.com/enable

“ In less than 10 years technology will virtually eliminate most 

limitations people with disabilities face in the workplace 

and the classroom.”

    Steve Ballmer, CEO, Microsoft Corporation

Microsoft is also working on accessi-

n The Disability Rights Advocates 

bility issues with the U.S. government 

“Eagle” Award, for spearheading 

and other technology industry lead-

the “Able to Work” Program, which 

ers. For example, Section 508 of the 

endeavors to employ increasing 

Rehabilitation Act, which took effect 

numbers of people with disabilities 

in June 2001, requires all federal agen-

cies to ensure that any electronic or 

information technology they develop, 

procure, maintain, or use is accessible 

to people with disabilities. Microsoft is 

fully engaged in Section 508, working 

closely with federal IT managers and 

industry leaders to help government 

The real value of accessibility is re-

flected in the way thousands of people 

with disabilities have used technology 

to change their lives for the better —

one of the clearest examples of how 
technology can empower people to 

realize their potential. For example:

agencies comply with the new regu-

n  Glenn Higgins has been quadriplegic 

lations, and providing the tools other 

since he was 17, when he was injured 

companies need to develop accessible 

in a wrestling accident. Today, 37 

technologies that meet the federal 

years later, he holds a Ph.D. in neuro-

standards. 

We have received numerous awards 

for the accessibility of Microsoft prod-

ucts and our work on accessibility 

issues, including:

psychology and serves as vice 

president and medical director for 

UnumProvident, a $9.6 billion provid-

er of disability insurance. Dr. Higgins 

succeeds in his high-level job through 

a combination of talent, hard work, 

n  The World Blind Union’s Louis Braille 

and technology. His tools include 

Gold Medal, for Microsoft Canada’s 

a personal computer equipped with 

contribution to helping develop a 

speech-recognition software and a 

digital library system for the Canadian 

puff-stick, which resembles a drinking 

National Institute for the Blind

straw but operates like a mouse when 

he blows into it.

n  WE Magazine’s Golden Ladder Award, 

for hiring and accommodating people 

with disabilities, and for our contin-

ued commitment to creating accessi-

ble technologies

n  The Ron Mace “Designing for the 21st 

Century” Award, for making Windows 

and our other software accessible 

to the broadest range of customers, 

including people with disabilities

Partnering with Customers     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 11

n  Sebastiaan Hermans is training to 

In 2002, we set out to build a Trust-

be a judge in the Netherlands court 

worthy Computing environment for 

system. The intense six-year program 

our customers, to make computing as 

of study and supervised practice 

reliable as possible. To meet our goal 

requires an enormous amount of 

of creating products that combine 

reading, writing, and note-taking. 

the best of innovation and predictabil-

Hermans, who was visually impaired 

ity, we are focusing on four specific 

at an early age, keeps up with the 

areas: security, privacy, reliability, and 

rigorous demands of his training by 

business integrity. This is a long-term 

using a screen reader that combines 

effort, but we have already made 

speech, Braille integrated magnifica-

significant progress. Our continued 

tion, a variety of other assistive 

work on security serves as an example 

technologies, and compatible soft-

of our commitment to this initiative.

ware from Microsoft.

n  Rick Burgos is a good listener —

even though he has an 80-percent 

hearing loss. As an advisory support 

specialist in a global customer 

support center for a major computer 

manufacturer, listening is a crucial 

part of his job. He facilitates this with 

a range of Microsoft products, plus 

a wireless microphone, amplifier, and 

headset.

Trustworthy Computing

Based on discussions with customers 

and our own internal reviews, it was 

clear that we needed to create a frame-

work that would support the kind 

of innovation, state-of-the-art process-

es, and cultural shifts necessary to 

make a fundamental advance in the 

security of our software products. In 

the past year we have created new 

product-design methodologies, coding 

practices, test procedures, security-

incident handling, and product-sup-

port processes that meet the objectives 

The Internet has become an increas-

of this security framework.

ingly powerful tool for business and 

communication, but it has also created 

new security risks that can threaten 

the confidentiality, integrity, and avail-

ability of data and systems.

In early 2002 we took the unprece-

dented step of stopping the develop-

ment work of some 8,500 Windows 

engineers while the company conduct-

ed 10 weeks of intensive security 

As a leader in the computing industry, 

training, analyzed the Windows code 

Microsoft has a responsibility to help 

base, and instituted a threat-modeling 

its customers address these concerns. 

process that taught program manag-

ers, architects, and testers to think like 

software attackers. Half of all the bugs 

identified during the Windows sec-

urity push were found during threat 

analysis. We have now carried out 

major security pushes in all of our key 

product groups.

In the past, a product feature was typi-

cally enabled by default if there was 

any possibility that a customer might 

want to use it. Today, the most secure 

option is usually the product default 

setting, which means that most fea-

tures are now turned off by default to 

help prevent them from being used 

as a potential back door for attackers. 

To help customers deploy and main-

tain our products securely, we have 

also updated and expanded our secu-

rity tools.

  
Page 12   Microsoft Citizenship Report     Partnering with Customers

Microsoft and Public Policy

Some problems that affect our custom-

ers are simply too big or too com-

plex for one company to solve alone. 

Because of Microsoft’s position as a 

global technology and business lead-

er, we are increasingly involved in 

alliances with industry colleagues and 

government agencies that are attempt-

ing to find solutions to some of the 

most difficult challenges facing busi-

nesses and consumers today.

Protecting Your Privacy

At Microsoft, we are committed to 

the Safe Harbor principles published 

by the U.S. Department of Commerce. 

helping you protect your privacy and 

Microsoft adheres to two overarching 

personal information, and to develop-
ing technologies that enhance the 

safety and security of your computing 
experience. In June 2003, Computer-
world ranked Microsoft as one of the 
top 10 privacy leaders among Fortune 

100 companies, which the magazine 

defined as “companies that have taken 

the most steps indicating a long-term, 

strategic commitment to data privacy.”

Microsoft offers a wide variety of prod-

ucts, Web sites, and services. Many 

of these have their own privacy state-

ments that describe exactly how 

they collect and use information. We 

strongly encourage you to review the 

specific privacy statements that apply 

to your interaction with our company. 

As a sign of our commitment to help-

ing protect consumer privacy, Micro-

soft is a participant in the Safe Harbor 

Agreement between the United States 

and the European Union, and follows 

privacy principles:

Identity Theft

Identity theft occurs when criminals 

illegally gain access to a consumer’s 

personal information, make unauthor-

ized purchases in their name, or 

divert funds from their bank accounts. 

In addition to causing financial and 

emotional trauma, identity theft may 

have a chilling effect on electronic 

commerce if consumers grow fearful 

that their identities may be stolen dur-

ing online transactions. Microsoft is 

working with other industry leaders, 

legislators, and law enforcement 

officials to prevent and prosecute 

identity theft.

n  Microsoft will not transfer your 

personal information to third parties 

without your consent.

n  We believe that you should be able 

to exercise control over how your 

personal information will be used. We 

also believe that you should be able 

to access the personal information 

you have provided, so that you can 

update, correct, or amend the data. 

Keeping Your Personal 

Information Secure

Microsoft is committed to keeping 

your personal information secure. 

We use a variety of advanced security 

technologies and procedures to help 

protect your personal information 

from unauthorized access, use, or dis-

closure. For example, we store the 

personal information you provide on 

computer servers located in controlled 

facilities. When we transmit sensitive 

personal information (such as a credit 

card number) over the Internet, 

we shield it with advanced encryption, 

such as the Secure Sockets Layer 

(SSL) protocol.

Partnering with Customers     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 13

“ Microsoft has a responsibility, as a corporate citizen, to 

participate in the global dialogue on public policy issues.” 

  Pamela Passman, Deputy General Counsel, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs, Microsoft Corporation

Spam

Unsolicited commercial e-mail, 

or spam, is a growing problem. Sever-

Since its inception, the world’s infor-

leader in developing new digital rights 

al billion junk e-mails — many of them 

mation technology sector has relied 

management (DRM) technologies 

deceptive or pornographic—are sent 

on strong intellectual property protec-

that can be used to deliver digital con-

over the Internet every day, frustrating 

tion as the basis for creating sustain-

tent and safeguard it against unau-

consumers and law enforcement offi-

able and innovative businesses. The IT 

thorized use. Typically, DRM encrypts 

cials alike. Thanks to technology such 

industry’s reliance on such protection 

digital content and limits access to 

as MSN 8 from Microsoft, the spam 

is not unique. In fact, the industry 

people who have acquired a proper 

that lands in inboxes today is a frac-

shares a lot in common with other re-

license to play that content. In addition 

tion of all that is sent. At MSN, mes-

search-intensive industries, such as 

sages are filtered twice, first by filters 

the consumer electronics, automotive, 

on e-mail servers and then again as 

pharmaceutical, and biotechnology 

to creating our own DRM system for 
Windows Media® Player and integrat-
ing those features into Windows 

subscribers use MSN 8 software. The 
MSN 8 filter becomes more effective 

industries. The fact that the IT indus-
try creates digital goods, which are 

Server 2003 and the new version of 
Office, Microsoft is working with other 

as it learns the characteristics of mail 

more susceptible to copying, makes 

industry leaders to promote a more 

that a subscriber designates as junk.

intellectual property laws particularly 

secure online environment that will 

important in this sector. 

encourage content owners to make 

more available and provide consum-

ers with exciting new choices.

Intellectual Property

Around the world, copyright and pat-

International treaties and national 

ent laws play a central role in fostering 

laws generally provide a solid founda-

a diversity of cultural resources, and 

tion for the protection of intellectual 

in promoting technological advances 

property. High levels of piracy contin-

and economic growth. These laws are 

ue to exist in many areas, however, 

more important than ever in a global 

because those laws are not adequately 

economy.

enforced. The software industry alone 

loses $11 billion annually to piracy. 

Microsoft works with industry and 

governments worldwide to promote 

understanding of the importance

of intellectual property laws and their 

improved enforcement.  

Digital Rights Management

Consumers are eager to access enter-

tainment products and other digital 

content over the Internet, but produc-

ers of that content are understandably 

concerned about its susceptibility 

to piracy. Microsoft continues to be a 

  
 
Responsible Leadership

Part  2

As a global industry leader, Microsoft recognizes its 

responsibility to set and maintain exceptionally high 

standards of product quality and support, and to 

deliver excellent customer service. Our customers and 

partners expect this of us, and we demand it of ourselves.  

 
Responsible Leadership     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 15

“ At the end of the day, our job is not done unless 

we have provided great opportunities for others to build 

We’re finding new and creative ways 

world-class software, and helped make them successful 

to support industry cooperation, 

especially around technology stan-

dards like XML (eXtensible Markup 

Language), which has become the 

in building it.”

  Eric Rudder, Senior Vice President, Servers and Tools, Microsoft Corporation 

new lingua franca for how computers 

We’re doing more industry outreach, 

The success of Windows is due in 

talk to each other. And we’re collabo-

forming more alliances, and work-

no small part to the creativity and in-

rating more closely than ever with 

ing more closely with governments. 

novation of developers who write 

others in our industry, including our 

Emerging problems like security and 

programs that run on the Windows 

competitors, to enhance those stan-

identity theft are too big and complex 

platform. Our ability to attract devel-

dards so that everyone can use them 

for either industry or government to 

opers can be attributed largely to 

to create innovative, easy-to-use soft-

solve alone. We need more public/

our decision to make our application 

ware. For example, last year Microsoft 

private alliances to address these chal-

programming interfaces (APIs) avail-

and a broad coalition of other indus-
try leaders formed the Web Services 

lenges, which will help the technology 
industry to continue to drive global 

able to all developers, even potential 
competitors. Our open-API model 

Interoperability (WS-I) Organization 

economic growth.

to promote Web services interopera-

bility across a variety of platforms, 

operating systems, and programming 

languages. To learn more about WS-I, 
please visit www.ws-i.org.

It comes down to this: Microsoft is 

totally committed to working with our 

partners and developers to provide 

innovative technologies that will con-

tinue to empower people worldwide 

As part of our renewed commitment 

and transform the way we live, work, 

to our customers, partners, and devel-

and learn.

opers, we have built new leadership 

teams for each of our businesses and 

increased leadership accountability 

throughout our company, while also 

expanding and nurturing our next 

generation of leaders. Along with cre-

ating this new management structure 

at Microsoft, we reaffirmed our core 

values and made living up to them a 

part of every employee’s performance 

review.

Creating New Opportunity 
for Developers and Partners

Developers are the foundation of our 

business —our most critical audience 

and our greatest asset. 

Microsoft has always had a healthy, 

interdependent relationship with soft-

ware developers. Our first products 

were PC programming languages, so 

we have deep roots in the developer 

community. From the beginning, the 

idea behind the Microsoft business 

model has been that we ensure our 

own success by attracting developers 

to our platform and doing whatever 

we can to help them succeed.

allows developers to call features of 

the Windows operating system into 

their own programs, which elimi-

nates the need to create those features 

from scratch, saves time and money, 

and makes their applications run 

efficiently.

As a result of these APIs, plus the 

tools and support we provide, more 

developers — approximately 7 million 

worldwide — write software for the 

Windows platform, which in turn 

makes it the most compelling plat-

form for users. Today, using XML and 

Microsoft .NET technologies, we’re 

making it just as easy for developers 

to write rich, interconnected Web 

services as it is to write traditional ap-

plications and Web sites— a change 

that is creating exciting new opportu-

nities for developers.

  
Page 16    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Responsible Leadership    

Microsoft also has a longstanding, 

need to look at how our technology 

Microsoft and Innovation

unwavering commitment to our part-

can enable businesses to become 

ners. Our products and solutions 

more agile. How we enable business 

have always been sold and deployed 

agility will vary dramatically from 

through partner channels, and we 

one customer to another, and deter-

have never strayed from our promise 

mining individual business needs is 

to enable our partners to develop, 

where our partners play a critical 

sell, and support great technology 

role. Microsoft can only succeed in this 

solutions. 

if our partners are successful, too. 

We live in an age where changes 

in computer technology are leading to 

increasingly dramatic innovations 

in the way we use computers and how 

technology enhances our daily lives. 

Breakthroughs in computing have led 

to exponential growth in processing 

power, graphics, storage, networking, 

Microsoft partners with roughly 

To ensure this, we must provide the 

and other areas, with capacity often 

750,000 companies worldwide, and 

tools, training, and resources part-

doubling or quadrupling in a few 

more than 350,000 of those are 

ners need, and keep communication 

months to a year. These technological 

outside the United States. This affil-

flowing consistently in both direc-

advances have made possible a pro-

iation helps our partners increase 

tions. Microsoft is developing innova-

liferation of new devices—digital cam-

revenues, lower costs, bring new prod-

tive new programs to help our part- 

eras, Tablet PCs, Pocket PCs, and 

ucts to market faster, and improve 

ners succeed, and we’re making major 

Smartphones—that offer new ways for 

their recognition in the marketplace 

end-to-end investments inside the 

us to stay connected.

by linking their own products with 

company to create a framework that 

the Microsoft brand. According to In-

will enable our partner ecosystem to 

ternational Data Corporation (IDC) 

remain strong and vibrant.

data and Microsoft revenue figures, for 

every $1 Microsoft earned in 2001, 

our partners generated $8 in revenue.

A strong partner model will be even 

more critical in the times ahead. To 

realize new growth opportunities, we 

In 1991, Microsoft recognized the 

approaching technology revolution 

and saw an opportunity to lead it. 

Microsoft made a strong commitment 

to basic computer science research 

by establishing the first software-

company research lab, and the compa-

ny continues to invest heavily in 

research. In fiscal year 2003, Microsoft 

invested $4.7 billion in research and 

development (R&D).

Responsible Leadership     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 17

Today, Microsoft Research (MSR) 

Industry Leadership through Innovation

is responsible for new technologies 

MSR is a world-class research organ-

that have found their way into numer-

ization dedicated to fostering software 

ous products, but its primary focus 

innovation, inventing the next gener-

is on finding answers to some of com-

ation of computing technologies, and 

puter science’s most vexing questions. 

finding answers to the greatest chal-

How can computers be made to un-

lenges in computing. At its research 

derstand the nuances and diversity of 

labs in Europe, Asia, and North America, 

human speech? What does it mean 

MSR employs 700 researchers in 55 

to recognize a face, and how can a ma-

distinct areas of computer science, from 

chine be trained to do it? What new 

artificial intelligence to data mining.

tools can be created to revolutionize 

the software development process?

Thanks to MSR breakthroughs in areas 

such as programming, multimedia, 

As the pace of technological change 

and database management, Microsoft 

accelerates, companies face a growing 

is viewed as a leader in the research 

dilemma. Product life cycles are 

community. Several Microsoft re-

shrinking as never before—more than 

searchers are members of the National 

half the revenues of America’s lead-

Academy of Engineering, some have 

ing technology companies now come 

received an Academy Award for tech-

from products developed during the 

nical achievement, and in Britain one 

previous five years, up from about a 

of our researchers was honored with 

third in 1992. This creates enormous 

a knighthood. Other prestigious hon-

pressure for rapid returns from 

ors received by our researchers include:

product development, and can make 

long-term research seem secondary to 

research that will pay off in the next 

business quarter.

n  Turing Award of the Association 

for Computing Machinery

n  National Medal of Technology

But if companies are to thrive beyond 

n  Kyoto Prize in Advanced Technology

the next quarter and really help 

n  Fields Medal of the International 

shape the future, they must constantly 

Mathematical Union

replenish their long-term reserves of 

intellectual capital. Research has never 

been more important.

The quality of the work being done by 

Microsoft researchers is evident from 

their presence at many leading re-

search conferences. For example, MSR 

accounted for 13 percent of peer-

reviewed papers presented at the CHI

  
Page 18    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Responsible Leadership    

2001 Conference on Human 

n  Smart Personal Objects Technology 

Factors in Computing Systems, and 

(SPOT) — Smart technology that 

30 percent of papers at the 2001 

makes everyday devices such as 

Programming Language Design and 

watches, key chains, and alarm clocks 

Implementation conference on 

more useful by enabling them to 

programming languages. Microsoft 

deliver a wide range of personalized 

researchers have also contributed 

information, such as news, traffic 

thousands of articles to prominent 

reports, stock quotes, weather infor-

technical journals.

mation, and instant messages

Making Dreams Real

At its heart, MSR has two goals: 

Microsoft Research 
University Relations

driving innovations that can change 

Microsoft Research University Rela-

the industry in areas such as natural 
language research and programmer 

tions is committed to supporting all 
aspects of the worldwide university 

productivity, and transferring those 

computing environment. Its mission is 

innovations from the lab into the 

to build world-class relationships with 

hands of users. Today, MSR’s work 

key universities, government agencies, 

can be found in virtually every 

and industry partners that enhance 

Microsoft product. For example:

the teaching and learning experience, 

inspire innovation, and establish 

Microsoft as a leading technology part-

ner for higher education.

We take our responsibility to the in-

ternational academic community very 

seriously. We contribute more than 

$75 million a year in cash and soft-

ware to academic institutions around 

the world, and we’re making more 

software available for teaching and re-

search. For example, last year we 

announced an academic version of 
Visual Studio® .NET to make it easy for 
university faculty and students to be-

gin using Microsoft .NET technologies 

n  Tablet PC—Handwriting-recognition 

technology that converts handwriting 

to digital text, digital ink technology 

that enables users to write on the 

Tablet as they would on paper, and 

ClearType® font technology that 

makes it easier to read on-screen text

n  MSN 8—Spam control filters that 

offer a vast improvement over pre-

vious versions and enable the 

industry’s best tools to combat spam

n  Windows XP — Advanced multi-

media technologies that enable more 

secure, reliable streaming transmis-

sions and audio quality, improved 

search capabilities, and encryption 

and anti-piracy tools that make 

Windows XP the most secure 

Microsoft operating system to date

Responsible Leadership     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 19

in the classroom. We also partner 

reached on specific issues and uni-

We’re Just Getting Started

globally with academic institutions on 

form technical specifications can be 

curriculum development.

established. The open standards 

Each year, we host faculty summits 

at Microsoft, bringing together 

hundreds of faculty members from 

all over the world. It’s a chance 

process is neutral concerning software 

development, welcoming all and 

favoring none in its quest for the best 

interoperability solutions.

for us to hear what’s going on across 

Microsoft participates actively as 

the academic research community, 

a member of numerous international 

to learn how we can help and parti-

standards organizations, and frequent-

cipate, and to show educators and 

ly contributes directly to the develop-

researchers what we’re working on.

ment of individual standards. Among 

the most familiar standards bodies 

with which we work are the Internet 

Engineering Task Force (IETF), the 

World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), 

and the European Telecommunica-

tions Standards Institute (ETSI).

This first decade of the 21st century, 

a time Bill Gates has called the “Digital 

Decade,” holds immense promise.

We believe that computers powered 

by advanced software will make 

Internet-based computing and com-

munications easier, more personal-

ized, and more productive for 

individuals and businesses around the 

world. We envision smart software 

continuing to weave technology into 

the fabric of our everyday lives —keep-
ing us connected to the people and 

information that are meaningful to us. 

And we know that we will continue 

to be motivated and inspired by how 

innovative software empowers people 

Supporting Open Standards

As an industry leader, Microsoft 

is committed to working with other 

companies and independent stand-

ards bodies to develop open 

technology standards that enable in-

teroperability. The fundamental 

purpose of open standards is to pro-

mote interoperability across diverse 

hardware and software products, 

and to spark competition and inno-

vation among vendors who want 

to differentiate their implementations 

of the standards.

Open standards are established 

through a consensus-based process. 

The main function of an independent 

standards body is to provide the 

forum in which consensus can be 

Microsoft has been instrumental in 

worldwide to change their lives. 

creating, supporting, and promoting 

open standards such as XML, SOAP 

(Simple Object Access Protocol), and 

UDDI (Universal Description, Discov-

ery, and Integration). Each of these 

plays a key role in lowering the cost 

and complexity of sharing data over 

networks and across applications.

Our dedication to constant innova-

tion is reflected in our ongoing 

commitment to research and develop-

ment. Over the past 10 years, we have 

invested more than $23 billion in 

researching and developing innovative 

solutions to the technology problems 

of today and tomorrow—in solving 

Commercial software developers, who 

the hard problems our customers are 

rely on the sale of software licenses 

asking us to solve. It’s our belief that 

for most of their revenue, devote sub-

the true measure of our success is not 

stantial resources to developing soft-

in the power of our software, but in 

ware that is standards-compliant and 

the potential it unleashes in the people 

interoperable. The reason is simple: 

who use it.

the extent to which software inter-

operates with various hardware 

devices and other software influences 

customer demand for that product.

  
Strengthening 
Communities Worldwide

Part  3

At Microsoft, we know that amazing things happen when 

people have access to the right resources to help them 

pursue their dreams. We’ve seen it again and again as our 

company, our software, and our employees have made 

a lasting difference in hundreds of communities and thou-

sands of lives around the world.

 
Strengthening Communities     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 21

“ The Club Tech program with Microsoft is making 

possible the most significant innovations, improvements, 

Microsoft is a neighbor in more than 

and programs in our history.”

80 countries and in nearly every 

U.S. state and territory. Being good 

neighbors and contributing to the 

communities where we live and work 

is a fundamental part of the Microsoft 

culture. In fiscal year 2002 alone, 

Microsoft gave nearly $40 million in 

cash and $207 million in software 

to more than 5,000 nonprofit organi-

zations that work to improve lives, 

build technology skills, and strengthen 

communities worldwide.

Part of our ongoing commitment 

to the many communities where we 

do business is to partner with non-

  Roxanne Spillett, President, Boys & Girls Clubs of America

Microsoft Global 
Community Affairs

In 1983, Microsoft established one 

of the first corporate giving programs 

in the high-tech industry. Today, we 

have been recognized as one of the top 

contributors in the technology sector, 

and one of the five largest contributors 

among all businesses in the United 

States. At Microsoft, we aim our giving 

programs at the heart of serious 

challenges.

Mobile Lebanese Library

profit organizations that work with 

n  In the United States, we have worked 

underserved people and commu-

in partnership with Boys & Girls Clubs 

nities — sharing resources, innovative 

of America to develop Club Tech. 

Following the successful establishment 

of a Microsoft Electronic Library (MEL) 

in Jordan, Microsoft Lebanon went one 
step further and created a mobile MEL, 

technology and ideas that can help 

Together we are bringing technology 

an electronic library in a bus. The mobile 

MEL can be driven throughout rural 

Lebanon, bringing computer access and 
information to a broad group of people. 

This new MEL not only provides technol-

ogy access, it also serves as a mobile 
classroom and learning center, as well as 

a way to promote computer awareness 

in remote communities. The bus targets 

particularly underserved communities 
within Lebanon, and focuses on providing 

access and skills training for those who 

may not have regular access to technology. 

counter the world’s most serious 

access and skills to children at all 

problems, awaken people to their 

2,600 clubs in communities through-

own potential, and empower them to 

out the United States, and at U.S. gov-

achieve it. 

ernment facilities in other countries.

n  Along with contributions to many 

individual organizations, we pro-

vided the primary support to create 

NPower, a national U.S. network of 

community-based groups that 

works with nonprofits to develop 

affordable technology solutions. 

For instance, one NPower project 

uses the Internet to link a communi-

ty’s resources for the deaf, so that 

each request can be quickly matched 

to an available interpreter. As a 

result, information once placed on 

index cards is now accessible to 

all staff at any time.

  
Page 22    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Strengthening Communities    

“ Mercy Corps works in places that are often technologically 

primitive. Software from Microsoft provides Mercy Corps 

with the critical building blocks from which field staff 

can develop innovative technical solutions to local problems. 

That means we can help more people more effectively 

and efficiently.”

  Peter Dickinson, Director of Information Technology, Mercy Corps

A Hand Up

A few years ago, Sheila Williams was rais-
ing three young sons as a single mother 
and trying to make ends meet by working 
part-time in a low-wage customer service 
job. Determined to break out of poverty, 
Sheila registered for classes at Metropolitan 
Community College (MCC) in Omaha, 
Nebraska.

At MCC, she heard about a program called 
Working Connections, an alliance between 
Microsoft and the American Association 
of Community Colleges that addresses the 
acute shortage of information technology 
(IT) workers by helping people from disad-
vantaged backgrounds and underserved 
populations prepare for IT jobs. Sheila took 
the training and landed a job as a custom-
er service analyst for an Internet company 
in Omaha, at a starting salary that doubled 
her previous income.

n  Microsoft works closely with inter-

national organizations such as 

the World Food Programme, Save 

the Children, and Mercy Corps to 

provide technology-based develop-

ment assistance through the HEART 

(Humanitarian Empowerment 

and Response through Technology) 

program. More and more, global 

organizations rely on technology 

to improve the effectiveness of 

their humanitarian efforts around 

the world.

n  eElder in Japan is a program that 

offers thousands of often isolated 

senior citizens an opportunity to 

use technology and learn IT skills, 

making them part of the digital age.

n  In the Czech Republic, Microsoft 

is supporting a program designed to 

provide people with disabilities IT 

training that is tailored to their indi-

vidual needs, helping them to secure 

jobs in the high-tech industry.

Our goal is to truly empower people 
and communities, by making sure 
they have the tools, skills, and resourc-
es to overcome not only today’s chal-
lenges, but also those that will arise in 
the future. 

Microsoft Employee Giving

In the United States, Microsoft matches 
each employee’s donation dollar-for-
dollar up to $12,000 annually, which 
gives them the opportunity to direct 
corporate contributions to thousands 
of nonprofit organizations. In fiscal 

year 2002, Microsoft employee dona-
tions and matching corporate funds 
totaled more than $28.5 million in 

cash in the United States alone.

At Microsoft, we’ve always believed 
in sharing our success. Our giving 

efforts—as a company and as individu-
als—are part of how we help support 

and strengthen our communities 
every day. 

Strengthening Communities     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 23

Unlimited Potential 

Technology is a potent force that can 

empower millions of people to reach 

their goals and realize their dreams —

but for many people around the world, 

the “Digital Divide” keeps that power 

out of reach. In many developing 

countries, for example, less than 1 per-

cent of the population has Internet ac-

cess. In some of the poorest countries, 

the cost of establishing an Internet 

connection could feed a family for a 

year. Access to technology is only part 

of the answer, however. It is equally 

critical to provide IT skills training 

and guidance to help people discover 

achieves its goal in three ways:

First, we support existing learning 

centers — such as libraries, schools, 

and community centers— where 

people already gather to gain skills, 

share information, and use technol-

ogy. Second, we offer those locations 

ongoing access to a rich set of resourc-

es that can help them become sus-

tainable technology-enabled centers 

of lifelong learning and collaboration. 

Finally, through a program of cash 

awards and recognition, we support 

scalable technology solutions that pro-
vide social benefits in communities 

worldwide. 

what technology can do for them, and 

By focusing our resources on Microsoft 

what they can do with technology.

UP, we hope to empower many of 

the world’s disadvantaged people to 

help themselves, strengthen their 

communities, and improve their local 

economies.

In 2003, Microsoft refocused its 

giving initiatives to promote computer 

literacy and foster lifelong learning 

among underserved young people 

and adults worldwide. Our goal 

with this program, called Unlimited 

Potential (UP), is to go beyond merely 

providing access to technology, 

by combining enhanced access with 

much-needed curriculum and the 

development of IT skills that people 

need to transform technology 

into powerful tools for change. UP 

  
Page 24    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Strengthening Communities    

Partners in Learning

By partnering with governments 

around the world, Microsoft is offer-

ing a spectrum of education resourc-

es—tools, programs, and practices—

to empower students and teachers to 

realize their full potential. The essen-

tial premise of this ambitious five-year 

undertaking is simple, yet compel-

ling: education changes lives, families, 

communities and, ultimately, nations. 

Microsoft is focusing global resourc-

es—people, partnerships, services, phi-

lanthropy, and products — to increase 

access to technology and technology 

education.

The Partners in Learning initiative 

includes three distinct yet integrated 

core programs, each of which can be 

implemented in the participating 

countries based on economic and edu-

cational objectives as well as cultural 

preferences. The programs are:

n  Partners in Learning Fresh Start for 

Donated PCs—Computers that are 

donated to schools often lack original 

documentation for the installed oper-

ating system. To remove licensing 

barriers that prevent schools from 

using donated computers, Fresh Start  

will provide primary and secondary 

schools with a licensed copy of 

Windows 98 and/or Windows 2000 

for donated machines when original 

documentation is not available.

n  Partners in Learning: School Agree-

ment—Microsoft School Agreement 

Subscription makes Microsoft’s core 

educational tools more affordable to 

primary and secondary schools in all 

countries worldwide through deeply 

discounted pricing. Schools with the 

greatest economic needs can acquire 

Windows XP Professional Upgrade 

and Office XP Professional at dramati-

cally lower pricing.

n  Partners in Learning Grants—

Learning grants provide cash invest-

ments over five years to help schools 

take advantage of their technology 

investments — by developing school 

leader and teacher skills, student cer-

tification, courseware, content, and 

research. Funding will support the 

establishment of local Microsoft IT 

Academy Centers through alliances 

Strengthening Communities     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 25

  with local community organizations, 

The MAR program donates software 

education institutions, and training 

licenses through nonprofit refur-

providers. The Centers will train 

bishers, enabling schools and charities 

educators, build communities, and 

to take full advantage of personal 

deliver locally tailored curriculum 

computers they receive from donors. 

and certifications. In addition, learn-

Before Microsoft established the 

ing grants will provide incentives 

program, many of those donated 

for teacher and student participation, 

machines lacked installed operating 

recognition programs for schools, 

systems.

and digital literacy assessments to 

encourage and reward participation.

Microsoft Authorized Recycling

Through a program called Microsoft 
Authorized Recycling (MAR), we help 

facilitate the refurbishing and recy-

cling of thousands of PCs every year 

so that they can be donated to K–12 

schools and nonprofit organizations. 

U.S. corporations and the federal 

government retire more than 13 mil-

lion personal computers annually —

a number that is growing rapidly. 

Approximately 20 percent (or 2.5 mil-

lion) of these machines are donated 

to schools and charity organizations. 

  
Managing 
Environmental Impact

Part  4

Microsoft respects the environment and protects our natural 

resources. We comply with all laws and regulations regarding 

the use and preservation of our land, air, and water. And we 

have specific policies and procedures that conserve environ-

mental resources at our facilities and in our purchasing 

activities, supplier operations, and products.

 
 Managing Environmental Impact     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 27

Recycling and Conservation 
at Our Facilities

  When new construction threatened to encroach on an area 

of wetlands, Microsoft responded by enhancing the site 

and making it publicly accessible as a habitat interpretive 

center. After initial restoration, the company donated 

Microsoft has several programs in 

place at our facilities that allow us 

to significantly reduce waste and con-

part of the wetlands to the city of Redmond as an interpre-

tive park, which local schoolchildren now use as part of 

serve resources. Examples include:

their environmental curriculum. 

n  Each day at our corporate campus 

in Redmond, Washington, we recycle 

an average of 24 tons of material: 

glass, plastic, aluminum, cardboard, 

paper, organic waste, wood pallets, 

and copper wire cabling. To date, 

paper and cardboard recycling at 

Microsoft has saved more than 

26,000 trees.

n  Recycling containers for paper, 

aluminum cans, and polystyrene are 

conveniently located for employees 

throughout our facilities. As a result 

of this and other programs, we’re 

n  We work with a contractor to recycle 

our old PCs, monitors, servers, and 

other surplus technology from our 

office facilities. This ensures that our 

surplus equipment is recovered or 

recycled at an environmentally com-

pliant facility. Approximately 90,000 

technology assets are processed each 

year, representing 2,100 tons of 

equipment sold or demanufactured 

that did not end up in landfills—

enough to fill more than 1,000 semi-

trailer trucks.

able to recycle 36 percent of our solid 

n  An advanced irrigation management 

waste. In fiscal year 2001, employees 

at our Seattle-area facilities alone 

reduced waste by more than 70 per-

cent, recycling and reusing more than 

7,060 tons of material that other-

wise would have ended up as landfill.

system at our corporate campus 

automatically senses weather condi-

tions and replenishes the right 

amount of water, which saves approx-

imately 11 million gallons of water 

annually. This conservation activity 

supports other uses for water resourc-

Microsoft respects the environment and protects our natural 

es in our area, such as water for salmon 

in our local rivers.

resources. We comply with all laws and regulations regarding 

the use and preservation of our land, air and water. And we 

have specific policies and procedures that conserve environmen-

tal resources at our facilities and in our purchasing activities, 

supplier operations, and products.

Page 28    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Managing Environmental Impact    

n  Microsoft has made energy conserva-

tion a priority, both in new construc-

Purchasing, Packaging,
and Products

tion and in renovations of existing 

buildings, investing in construction 

methods that provide long-term 

energy savings. Conservation meth-

ods implemented recently during 

construction of buildings on our cor-

porate campus—from efficient light-

ing that consumes 40 percent less 

energy to adjustable-speed motors 

for our heating, ventilation, and air- 

conditioning systems—will result in 

electric energy savings of 2.5 million 

kWh each year. Over the past two 

years, we have reduced per-employee 

energy consumption at our Seattle-

area facilities by nearly 10 percent.  

At Microsoft, we follow strict policies 

to ensure that we remain in full 

compliance with international environ-

mental regulations and the environ-

mental requirements of each country 

where we do business. All Microsoft 

divisions have specific responsibilities 

for compliance, as do our vendors. 

We extend our environmental efforts 

by the use of recycled office products, 

as well as recycled paper in Microsoft 

brochures, software manuals, and 

other publications. We also purchase 

and use many new products that 

contain recycled content. Our environ-

mental principles are an important 

component of our buying decisions, 

and we believe the same is true for our 

customers.

Packaging for our hardware and soft-

ware products is also designed to re-

duce environmental impact, including 

the elimination of plastic shrink-wrap 

Managing Environmental Impact     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 29

“ As a global corporate citizen, Microsoft recognizes its 

environmental responsibility. Through our business 

operations, products, and partnerships we are continuing 

to work to help promote long-term sustainability of 

the global environment.”

Joe Johnson, Environmental Regulatory Manager, Microsoft Corporation 

from Microsoft packages and software 

manuals, promoting the use of com-

pact discs (CDs) for computer pro-

grams, and using online paperless 

manuals. We also prohibit the use of 

old-growth trees in our packaging.

We design our products, both soft-

ware and hardware, to comply with 

worldwide environmental regulations. 

For example, we use no heavy metals, 

such as lead and cadmium, in the 

packaging or plastics of any Microsoft 

products. Our hardware products are 

designed with consideration of the en-

vironment in mind, and we restrict the 

use of toxic substances in manufac-

turing operations. Microsoft contracts 

out for manufacturing throughout the 

world, and we encourage our vendors 

to follow good environmental practices.

  
 
Employees

Part  5

We employ more than 54,000 people in over 80 coun-

tries. Our employees come from diverse backgrounds, but 

they share a common passion for exploring new ideas, 

overcoming challenges, and creating innovative software 

that can empower people to change their lives. 

 
Employees     Microsoft Citizenship Report     Page 31

Our mission—to enable people and 

businesses throughout the world 

to realize their full potential—begins 

by enabling our own employees to 

realize their potential. Our ability 

to achieve our corporate mission de-

pends on the individual decisions 

and actions of every Microsoft em-

ployee around the world, each of 

whom shares Microsoft’s core values 

and lives them every day.

Equal Employment, 
Anti-harassment, and 
Anti-discrimination Policies

Microsoft Employee 
Development and Support

We strive to provide our employees 

with the skills, tools, and experiences 
that will enable them to unleash 

Microsoft is committed to a policy of 

their talents and capabilities. Profes-

Employment at Microsoft

Current Employment Headcount
(as of July 1, 2003): 

54,923

providing equal employment oppor-

sional development is an ongoing part 

Organization:

tunity to all qualified employees and 

of every employee’s experience at 

Business Group 

23,182

applicants. This commitment is reflect-

Microsoft. It includes mentoring, train-

ed in all aspects of our daily opera-

ing, online tools and resources, and 

Sales & Marketing Support Group 

25,038

tions. We do not discriminate on the 

special programs to develop managers 

Operations Group 

6,703

basis of race, color, sex, sexual orienta-

and our next generation of leaders. 

tion, religion, national origin, marital 

status, age, disability, or veteran status 

in any personnel practice, including 

recruitment, hiring, training, compen-

sation, promotion, and discipline.

We also recognize the importance 

of personal and family support in our 

employees’ lives, and we offer oppor-

tunities for employees and their 

families to socialize and enjoy a wide 

We prohibit harassment, discrimina-

variety of community events. We 

tion, retaliation, or intimidation on the 

designed our benefits plan to keep 

basis of race, color, sex, sexual orienta-

our employees healthy, happy, and 

tion, religion, national origin, marital 

moving ahead in their careers. We 

status, age, disability, or veteran status 

provide a range of healthcare options, 

toward another employee or any other 

personal and professional resources, 

person (including an agency tempo-

and financial incentives. 

rary, independent contractor, vendor, 

or supplier). 

Our Commitment to Diversity

n  Diversity Recruitment—We are com-

mitted to creating a workforce that 

reflects the global marketplace. In the 

past six years, we have spent more 

than $125 million to reach this goal. 

Our recruiting efforts, in partnership 

with 33 historically diverse colleges, 

encourage underrepresented minori-

ties and women to become the next 

generation of technology leaders. 

Since 1997, Microsoft has given cash 

and software in support of organ-

izations such as the United Negro 

College Fund, Native American 

Microsoft has established a number 

Colleges and Universities, Hispanic 

of initiatives to ensure that diversity is 

Scholarship Fund, American  

an integral and valued part of our 

Association of People with Disabilities, 

company at every level, and to dem-

onstrate this commitment locally, 

nationally, and globally. For example:

  
Page 32    Microsoft Citizenship Report     Employees    

“ Diversity is important not only because it enriches the 

workplace and enhances the lives of our employees, 

but also because it enables Microsoft to better serve the 

needs of customers and communities.” 

  Steve Ballmer, CEO, Microsoft Corporation

  and others that serve diverse popu-

or use technology to increase employ-

lations. We awarded scholarships 

ment opportunities for people with 

totaling $540,000 to students tradi-

disabilities.

tionally underrepresented in comput-

er science and related disciplines in 

the 2002–2003 academic year, and 

supported more than 19 premier 

recruitment events geared for candi-

dates who were African American, 

Hispanic, Native American, women, or 

people with disabilities.

n  Diversity Outreach —Over the past 

five years our efforts, in partnership 

with universities such as Xavier, 

Howard, Texas at El Paso, the 

University of Puerto Rico, and other 

education-oriented organizations, 

have ensured that women, students 

with disabilities, and students of color 

have access to experiences and 

opportunities that yield personal and 

professional growth. Through an 

investment of more than $3.5 million, 

we have participated in conferences 

and career fairs, facilitated workshops, 

and supported the annual events 

of our partner minority and women’s  

n  Diversity Education Programs— 

Microsoft’s diversity education pro-

grams provide our workforce with

the tools and resources they need to 

ensure we take advantage of our 

employees’ differing backgrounds, 

work styles, and viewpoints.

n  Minority- and Women-Owned 

Businesses —Microsoft sponsors a 

variety of programs designed to help 

minority- and women-owned busi-

nesses succeed. Since its inception, 

the national award-winning Build 

Your Business Tour has provided, at 

no cost, educational technology 

seminars to the owners of more than 

10,000 minority- and women-owned 

small businesses, while our supplier 

diversity effort is designed to encour-

age greater minority participation 

in the IT industry, through both 

increased procurement and direct 

investment.

professional organizations. 

At Microsoft, our commitment to 

n  Support for Disability —In addition 

to our recruiting efforts, Microsoft 

has contributed $5.5 million to organ-

izations that support people with 

disabilities. We wholeheartedly sup-

port the spirit of the Americans with 

Disabilities Act, providing grants to 

programs that address the technology 

needs of the disability community, 

diversity goes beyond recruiting and 

employing a diverse workforce. It’s 

a vital component of our ongoing 

mission: to enable people and 

businesses throughout the world to 

realize their full potential.

 
Microsoft Europe, 
Middle East & Africa
Coeur Défense, Tour B - 37e étage
100, Esplanade du Général de Gaulle
92932 Paris La Defense Cedex
France
Phone: 33.01.70.99.10.67 
www.microsoft.com/emea 

Microsoft Canada 
1950 Meadowvale Boulevard 
Mississauga, Ontario 
L5N 8L9 
Canada
Phone: 905.568.0434
www.microsoft.com/canada

Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052-6399
USA 
Phone: 425.882.8080
www.microsoft.com

Microsoft Asia Pacific  
5 Temasek Boulevard 
#09-03 Suntec City Tower 5 
Singapore 038985  
Phone: 65.6337.6088

www.microsoft.com/asia

Microsoft Greater China  
19/F, Millennium Tower
38 Xiaoyun Road
Chaoyang
Beijing 100027
P.R. China  
Phone: 86.10.8453.8989

Microsoft Japan  
Odakyu Southern Tower
2-2-1 Yoyogi
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8583 Japan 
Phone: 81.3.5454.8000
www.microsoft.com/japan

Microsoft Latin America 
899 West Cypress Creek Road 
Suite 400 
Fort Lauderdale, FL 33309 
USA 
Phone: 954.489.4800 
www.microsoft.com/latam

© 2003 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. Microsoft, bCentral, ClearType, Great Plains, Hotmail, MSDN, MSN, Navision, Visio, Visual Studio, Windows, Windows Media, Windows Server and Xbox are 
either  registered  trademarks  or  trademarks  of  Microsoft  Corporation,  Great  Plains  Software,  Inc.,  Microsoft  Business  Solutions  ApS  or  their  affiliates  in  the  United  States  and/or  other  countries.  Great  Plains 
Software, Inc., and Microsoft Business Solutions ApS are subsidiaries of Microsoft Corporation. The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. 
Printed on paper containing 20% post-consumer waste.

 
