2021 Corporate Responsibility
Executive Summary

  Sustainable 

Commitment

Across our family of companies, Southern Company1 continues to prioritize the 
delivery of clean, safe, reliable and affordable energy to our customers. We know that 
building a successful and sustainable business means delivering the same exceptional 
service our customers expect today, while transforming to meet expectations for 
tomorrow’s new energy economy, including a net zero future. Our Values – Safety 
First, Unquestionable Trust, Superior Performance and Total Commitment – will guide 
us as we make decisions that impact our customers, communities, employees and the 
varied stakeholders who have an interest in Southern Company. Join us as we work 
together for a more sustainable future.

In 2021, Southern Company partnered with the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) to conduct a Sustainability 
Priorities Assessment to understand internal and external stakeholder interests in key areas related to sustainability. 
The valuable insights gained from this extensive study are informing our corporate sustainability strategy, 
stakeholder engagement and sustainability disclosures. The study also contributed to the development of our six 
corporate sustainability priorities: Net Zero and Environment; Reliability, Resilience and Affordability; Innovation; 
Workforce Sustainability; Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Community Relationships. For more information on 
the Sustainability Priorities Assessment see page 24.

In March 2022, Southern Company launched a new section on its website focused on sustainability. We view the 
Sustainability site, which covers a wide range of environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics that are 
important to our company and stakeholders, as the primary source of information for parties interested in Southern 
Company’s perspectives, performance and progress on key sustainability topics. We aim to refresh this website 
annually during the first quarter. 

Our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Executive Summary, based on our Sustainability website, serves as a short-form, 
printable report and roadmap for stakeholders wishing to learn more about priority topics. In addition, this executive 
summary provides an update on key initiatives announced through the first nine months of 2022, alignment of our 
priorities with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), and easy access to key ESG data, 
metrics and ESG reporting frameworks. We aim to publish a summary report annually in the third quarter.

[1] In this document, the terms we, us and our all refer to Southern Company. Southern Company is a holding company that conducts its 

business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to Southern Company’s 

operations, such as generating activities, greenhouse gas emissions and employment practices, refer to those operations conducted through 

its subsidiaries.

2

Corporate ResponsibilityUN SDG Alignment 

Southern Company has mapped our six corporate 
sustainability priorities to the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals framework, indicating 
our alignment with a sustainable future. See page 26 for 
a more detailed description of our UN SDG alignment.

Net Zero and 
Environment

Reliability, 
Resilience and 
Affordability

Innovation

Workforce 
Sustainability

Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion

Community 
Relationships

3

Corporate ResponsibilityTABLE OF CONTENTS

New or notable highlights

5 

7 

9 

Letter from Management Council

Southern Company Overview

Priority Topics:

  Net Zero and Environment

Reliability, Resilience and Affordability

Innovation

  Workforce Sustainability

  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Community Relationships

22  Governance and Policy Engagement

24  Priority Sustainability Assessment 

26  UN SDG Alignment

27  Key Data and Metrics 

Southern Company ESG Data Table

SASB Content Index (Sustainability Accounting Standards  

Board) - Electric Utilities & Power Generators

SASB Content Index – Gas Utilities and Distributors

TCFD Content Index (Task Force on Climate-related    

Financial Disclosures)

  GRI Content Index (Global Reporting Initiative)

E
N
V

I

R
O
N
M
E
N
T
A
L

S
O
C

I

A
L

G
O
V
E
R
N
A
N
C
E

Updated timelines for proposed 
coal-fired generation retirements/
repowering and renewable energy 
additions

Independent assurance of 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions

Expanded Scope 3 data disclosure 
responsive to stakeholder feedback

Just Transition Report published

2021 EEO-1 data published

Moving to Equity Transformation 
Report published

Racial Equity Audit commitment 
for 2023

Trade Association and Climate 
Engagement Report published

Updated Board of Directors 
Committee Charters to better 
describe ESG oversight

4

Corporate Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Letter from Management Council

For more than a century Southern 
Company has focused on providing 
reliable energy to its customers. As our 
business has grown, we continue to 
place customers at the center of all we 
do. Today, customers, communities and 
a wide array of stakeholders are relying 
on us to provide clean, safe, reliable and 
affordable energy. We are committed to 
meeting these needs. 

A new energy future is upon us. Technology 
advancements, changes in fuel supply and demand, 
geopolitical dynamics and evolving customer preferences 
are leading to a future reliant on a diverse range of energy 
sources. In addition, advancing workforce sustainability, 
promoting diverse viewpoints, supporting our 
communities and engaging with our stakeholders require 
continued agility and appropriate oversight at all levels of 
the company, including by the Board of Directors.

In the coming years, customers and stakeholders 
of Southern Company can expect:

•  Continued investment in our electric and natural 

gas infrastructure to help ensure affordable, best-in-
class service.

•  A lower-carbon generating fleet facilitated by the 
addition of renewable resources, nuclear capacity 
and gas-fired generation as well as the retirement of 
uneconomic coal-fired generating units - all aligned 
with our long-term goal to reach net zero greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions by 2050.

•  Natural gas businesses that continue to drive 

down methane and other GHG emissions from 
operations and seek opportunities to leverage existing 
infrastructure for new, lower-carbon sources of gas.

•  Continued leadership within the U.S. utility sector 
in the development, funding and demonstration of 
innovative research necessary to provide clean, safe, 
reliable and affordable energy and meet our net 
zero goal.

5

Corporate Responsibility•  A focus on workforce sustainability, aiming to 
ensure we have the right people with the right 
skills who are trained to perform their jobs safely 
and ethically to meet current and future business 
requirements.

•  Consistent work toward our goal of ensuring all 
groups, and especially historically underrepresented 
and marginalized groups, are well represented, 
included and fairly treated within all levels of our 
organization and in our communities. 

•  An enduring commitment to make our 

communities better because we are there through 
a focus on outreach and engagement, support of 
education initiatives and partnerships to foster 
economic development.

Annual Energy Mix[2]

2007 (Baseline)

Natural Gas: 16%

Nuclear: 14%

Coal: 69%

Renewables/Other: 1%

•  Continued emphasis on consistent dialogue 

with all our stakeholders, including customers, 
stockholders, employees, policymakers and members 
of the communities that we serve. 

At Southern Company, we have long believed corporate 
responsibility and corporate strategy are inextricably 
linked. Effectively aligning our corporate strategy with 
our commitments to stakeholders requires the attention 
of our entire leadership team, as well as the Board 
of Directors. This report describes our endeavors and 
serves as a roadmap for stakeholders wishing to learn 
more. We look forward to engaging with you on these 
important issues.

Southern Company Management Council

2019

Nuclear: 16%

Coal: 22%

Natural Gas: 50%

Renewables/Other: 12%

2020

Nuclear: 17%

Coal: 17% Natural Gas: 51%

Renewables/Other: 15%

2021

Nuclear: 16%

Coal: 21%

Natural Gas: 48%

Renewables/Other: 15%

[2] Annual energy mix represents all of the energy the Southern 
Company system uses to serve its retail and wholesale customers 
during the year. It is not meant to represent delivered energy mix to 
any particular retail customer or class of customers. Annual energy mix 
percentages include non-affiliate power purchase agreements. 

Renewables/Other category includes wind, solar, hydro, biomass and 
landfill gas. 

With respect to certain renewable generation and associated renewable 
energy credits (RECs), to the extent an affiliate of Southern has the right 
to the RECs associated with renewable energy it generates or purchases, it 
retains the right to sell the energy and RECs, either bundled or separately, 
to retail customers and third parties.

6

Corporate ResponsibilitySouthern Company 
Overview 

Southern Power: A leading wholesale energy provider 
that develops, constructs, acquires, owns and manages 
power generation assets, including large renewable and 
energy storage portfolios to provide wholesale energy 
in 14 states.

Southern Company Gas: An energy services holding 
company that provides natural gas through local 
distribution companies (LDCs) in four states, including 
Atlanta Gas Light (Ga.), Chattanooga Gas (Tenn.), Nicor 
Gas (Ill.) and Virginia Natural Gas (Va.), as well as other 
complementary natural gas businesses.

Southern Nuclear: An operator and service provider to 
the Southern Company system’s nuclear power plants 
and construction manager for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.

PowerSecure, Southern Linc and Southern Telecom: 
Complementary non-utility businesses.

Southern Company is a leading energy 
company known for excellent customer 
service, high reliability and affordability. 
We are committed to supporting and 
improving our communities and the 
environment at the local level and 
beyond, while conducting business with 
honesty, integrity and fairness. Through 
industry-leading innovation and a 
commitment to a net zero future, we are 
delivering sustainable and resilient energy 
solutions that help drive growth and 
prosperity. Our uncompromising values 
put the needs of those we serve at the 
center of everything we do and govern 
our business to the benefit of our world. 

Southern Company is a holding company that 
conducts its business through its subsidiaries, 
including:

Alabama Power, Georgia Power and Mississippi 
Power: Traditional electric operating companies that 
provide service to both retail and wholesale customers 
in the Southeast.

7

Corporate ResponsibilitySouthern Company
Corporate Responsibility Goals

2021 Progress

50% GHG emissions reduction  
by 2030 relative to 2007 levels

47%

reduction

Achieve net zero GHG  
emissions by 2050

Scope 1 GHG emissions

82M

metric tons 
(down from 157M in 2007)

50% light-duty fleet vehicle 
electrification by 2030[3]

[3] Goal applies to traditional electric operating companies.

21%

converted to electric

Invest $225 million by 2025 to 
advance racial equity and social 
justice in our communities

$66M

invested

Increase our total diverse 
spend to 30% by 2025

26%

total diverse spend

8

Corporate Responsibility

Net Zero and Environment

Southern Company is proud to support the communities we serve, and we are 
committed to protecting the environment we all share. We recognize our obligations to:

•  Reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through both internal efforts and partnerships with customers, 
communities and other industries. Our goal of net zero by 2050 includes direct Scope 1 emissions across our 
electric and gas businesses. We are also committed to reducing our Scope 2 emissions and working with partners 
and customers to reduce Scope 3 upstream and downstream emissions.

•  Support a Just Transition for our employees and communities as we decarbonize our energy portfolio. 

•  Continuously improve energy efficiency through technological advancements and innovative programming 

across our service territories.

•  Meet or surpass all environmental laws and regulations – compliance is the foundation of our environmental 

commitment.

•  Practice conservation, promote biodiversity on our land and in the communities we serve.

Learn more 

Among Industry Leaders in Emissions Reporting

Southern Company reports all relevant Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
through its annual CDP submission and other company disclosures. 
Notably, we received limited assurance from Deloitte & Touche, 
LLP for our 2021 and 2020 Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions, and we 
continued to expand our Scope 3 emissions reporting in 2022. Our 
enhanced reporting is responsive to feedback received through 
Southern Company’s robust stakeholder engagement efforts. 

9

Corporate ResponsibilitySpotlight: GHG Emissions Reductions

Southern Company’s net zero strategy considers 
both direct and indirect emissions reductions. 
Drivers for direct emissions reduction include: reduced 
reliance on coal-fired generating assets, use of natural 
gas to enable the low-carbon energy transition, further 
growth in our portfolio of zero-carbon resources, 
enhanced energy efficiency initiatives, negative carbon 
solutions and continued investment in research and 
development (R&D) of clean energy technologies. While 
our net zero goal is focused on direct emissions, we 
are also committed to reducing emissions across our 
full value chain through engagement, energy efficiency 
measures and partnerships with customers, suppliers 
and other organizations. 

As we transition to net zero, we believe having a 
diversified energy portfolio is crucial to reducing 
emissions while maintaining reliability and affordability 
for our customers. Since 2007, we have significantly 
reduced our reliance on coal-fired generation, 
meaningfully increased generation from zero-carbon 
resources and made strategic decisions around our use 
of natural gas.

Southern Company continues to reduce the number 
of generating units in our coal fleet, lowering emissions 
and retiring uneconomic resources. We have proposed 
to have just eight coal units remaining in our generating 
fleet with a nameplate capacity of less than 4,500 MWs 
by the end of 2028, and we expect to further reduce 
our coal fleet in the 2030s, pending regulatory approval. 
In July 2022, Georgia Power received approval of 
its 2022 Integrated Resource Plan that includes a 
transformation of Georgia’s energy resources, growing 
renewable resources, investments in reliability and 
resilience and diverse, flexible customer programs.

10

Southern Company Coal Fleet Over Time [4]

Number of Coal Units

66

Coal Capacity Megawatts (MW)
(Nameplate)

20,457

91%

reduction 
in the number 
of coal units*

8

6

18

16

9,799

8,873

87%

reduction 
in coal 
capacity*

4,430

2,670

2007

2020

2022

2028E*

2035E*

2007

2020

2022

2028E*

2035E*

Units Remaining

Minority Ownership (2 Units)

MW Remaining

Minority Ownership (137 MW)

[4] Reflects Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG) compliance filings made by Southern Company’s 
traditional electric operating companies, as well as the 2021 Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) for Mississippi 
Power and the 2022 IRP for Georgia Power. Units are expected to be either retired or repowered to burn 
natural gas during peak loads. Minority ownership units are subject to compliance decisions made by 
majority owners. 

*For 2028, regulatory approvals have already been received to reduce the total number of coal generating 
units to 10. In its 2022 IRP, Georgia Power requested to retire Plant Bowen Units 1&2 by 2028 and expects 
this request to be considered in future regulatory proceedings. In addition, Georgia Power’s planning 
assumption includes the retirement of Plant Bowen Units 3&4 by 2035, which would also require 
regulatory approval.

Southern Company Renewables Growth [5]

>17,000
MWs

Over 300%

increase in renewable resources

<5,000
MWs

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2024E*

2030E*

Solar

Wind

Hydro

Other

[5] Includes owned and contracted resources including 100% capacity for jointly owned projects. With 
respect to certain renewable generation and associated renewable energy credits (RECs), to the extent an 
affiliate of Southern Company has the right to the RECs associated with renewable energy it generates or 
purchases, it retains the right to sell the energy and RECs, either bundled or separately, to retail customers 
or third parties. Other includes battery storage, landfill gas and biomass.

*Future estimates include owned and contracted capacity that have received regulatory approval. 
Additional renewable resources could be added prior to 2030 at Southern Power or at our operating 
companies, should they be proposed and approved through regulatory processes. 

Corporate ResponsibilityImportantly, we continue to emphasize the 
well-being of our employees and communities 
by focusing on a Just Transition as we seek to 
make significant changes to our generating mix 
in a relatively short timeframe. In early 2022, 
Southern Company published a set of Just 
Transition Principles that aim to foster:

Strong governance 

Effective stakeholder engagement and 
transparent communication 

Employee support and coordination with 
labor unions 

Ongoing community and environmental 
commitment  

Continued safety, reliability, resilience and 
affordability 

11

Corporate Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
Reliability, 
Resilience and 
Affordability

A reliable, resilient and affordable 
energy system is central not only to our 
company and mission, but also to the 
future of energy. Southern Company 
is dedicated to delivering reliable and 
affordable energy to our customers and 
communities.

•  Southern Company is focused on modernizing 
our infrastructure to improve system reliability 
and resilience and working to ensure protections 
are in place to minimize physical risks to our 
energy systems

•  Continued innovation will be required – and 
is underway – to support future reliability and 
resilience needs in a carbon-constrained world

•  Southern Company is committed to providing 

clean, safe, reliable and affordable energy for   
our customers

Learn more 

12

Corporate ResponsibilityLearn more 

Southern Company is a leading participant in 
EPRI’s Climate READi: Power Resilience and 
Adaptation initiative

As 1-in-50 or 1-in-100-year extreme events of the past increase in 
frequency, and society increasingly depends on electricity, EPRI is 
strengthening the power sector’s collective approach to managing 
climate risk to the power system. EPRI’s collaborative model will 
convene the global thought leaders and scientific researchers 
necessary to build an informed and consistent approach. The 
framework will enable energy companies, regulators and other 
stakeholders to use science-informed insights in a more consistent 
way to better understand, plan for and disclose future global 
power system challenges arising from the changing environment.

Spotlight: Reliability and Resilience

Increases in severe weather, changing customer 
preferences and advancements in technology 
continue to transform our world and the way we 
provide energy to those we serve. We understand 
that having reliable energy is essential, which is why we 
are at the forefront of industry-leading innovation and 
are focused on making smart investments to provide 
reliable and resilient service to our customers. We do 
this by upgrading and enhancing our infrastructure, 
protecting electric and natural gas infrastructure from 
physical and cyber-threats, reducing our GHG emissions, 
and deploying distributed generation solutions, among 
other initiatives. We are always preparing for the future.

As we transition to cleaner fuel sources, Southern 
Company is focused on modernizing our infrastructure 
to improve system resilience and ensuring processes 
are in place to minimize physical risks to our energy 
systems. Over the 2022-2026 planning period, we aim 
to invest $17 billion across our electric transmission 
and distribution (T&D) systems, including smart grid 
infrastructure, energy storage, microgrids, and demand 
response technology. These efforts will help further 
modernize our T&D infrastructure, build system-wide 
resilience and enhance our ability to identify problems 
and avoid service disruptions for our customers.

13

Corporate ResponsibilityInnovation

Southern Company leads the U.S. utility 
industry in the development, funding 
and demonstration of innovative 
research necessary to provide clean,   
safe, reliable and affordable energy.

•  For more than a century, Southern Company 
has been building the future of energy and 
developing a diverse portfolio of energy 
resources, including carbon-free nuclear, advanced 
carbon capture technologies, natural gas, renewables, 
energy efficiency and storage technology. To 
accomplish this, we invest heavily in R&D and 
innovative energy solutions. 

•  We lead the U.S. utility industry in the 

development, funding and demonstration of 
innovative research necessary to provide clean, safe, 
reliable and affordable energy. Our aim is to develop 
the customized energy solutions our customers and 
communities require to drive growth and prosperity. 

•  In addition to R&D, we invest in early-stage energy 

technology companies and solutions through 
entities such as our New Ventures organization and 
Energy Impact Partners (EIP).

Learn more 

Learn more 

Georgia Power, Mitsubishi Power, EPRI 
Complete World’s Largest Hydrogen Fuel 
Blending at Plant McDonough-Atkinson

In June 2022, Georgia Power and Mitsubishi Power, alongside EPRI, 
successfully validated fuel blending of hydrogen and natural gas 
at both partial and full load on an M501G natural gas turbine at 
Georgia Power’s Plant McDonough-Atkinson in Smyrna, Georgia. 
The demonstration project was the first to validate 20% hydrogen 
fuel blending on an advanced class gas turbine in North America, 
and the largest test of this kind to date, with the 20% blend 
providing an approximately 7% reduction in carbon emissions 
compared to natural gas.

14

Corporate ResponsibilitySpotlight: R&D Strategy Roadmap

Southern Company’s R&D organization provides 
innovative energy solutions and creates value 
for customers in the evolving energy landscape. 
Our research is facilitating the transition to a net-zero 
future by exploring a full spectrum of solutions such 
as more cost-effective and efficient carbon capture, 
high-potential advanced nuclear technologies and next-
generation power delivery and end-use innovations.

Southern Company has undertaken a systematic, 
comprehensive review of our R&D plan, including the 
identification of long-term objectives and aspirations 
and development of a refined strategy roadmap. Our 
roadmap prioritizes four primary objectives:

•  Develop a sustainable energy future 

•  Provide delivery, storage and distributed generating 

solutions

•  Support expanding customer needs

•  Advance the existing generating fleet

Develop a Sustainable Energy Future

Advanced 
Generation

Carbon 
Capture 
& Storage

Negative
Emissions

Dispatchable
Renewables

Advanced
Nuclear

Provide Delivery, Storage & Distributed 
Generating Solutions

Energy
Storage

Reliability 
& Resiliency

Integrated 
Energy 
Delivery

Zero-Carbon       
Energy 
Carriers

Distributed 
Energy 
Resources

Support Expanding Customer Needs

Building 
Technology

Sustainability 
Solutions

Low-Carbon…
Transportation

Data Analytics 
for Business 
Intelligence

Industrial 
Process 
Solutions

Advance the Existing Generating Fleet

Address Legacy                  
Environmental 
Risks

Increase Flexibility, 
Maximize Efficiency, 
Reduce Cost

Minimize 
Stranded 
Assets

15

Corporate ResponsibilitySpotlight: Safety First – Southern 
Company’s No. 1 Value 

Safety First is a pledge to our employees, 
customers, contractors and communities that our 
actions will contribute to a safe environment for 
everyone. Our system has long had a commitment 
to completing every job, every day, safely. We are 
dedicated to continuous safety improvement to 
advance our safety culture. 

As part of our focus on continuous improvement, 
in 2018 we recognized that our “Target Zero” safety 
initiative to pursue zero workplace injuries, set with the 
best of intentions, had unintended consequences – a 
hesitance to report minor incidents and near-misses. 
While we continue to measure rates of recordable 
injuries, lost-time rate and days away, we have modified 
a portion of our compensation goals to focus on 
serious injuries rather than total injuries. We have come 
to recognize that lessons learned from reporting all 
incidents provide the best opportunities to build trust, 
apply human performance principles and advance our 
safety program. Better understanding the precursors 
of potentially serious incidents helps us identify and 
implement the critical controls necessary to prevent 
serious injuries. We hone and build on our safety culture 
by engaging all employees in our solutions, continuing 
to share and build on learnings, and contributing to 
continuous process improvement to enhance safety.  
Our programs and processes resulted in a reduction to 
serious injuries and the best safety performance in our 
history in 2021.  

Our commitment is to Safety First. We work hard 
every day to live up to this core element of Our Values 
and to sustain a culture in which our employees are 
empowered to contribute to making us better.  

Workforce 
Sustainability 

Southern Company is focused on having 
the right people with the right skills who 
are trained to perform their jobs safely 
and ethically to meet current and future 
business requirements. This focus is 
exemplified through Our Values and our 
Code of Ethics. We uphold our values, 
ethics and human capital beliefs in all we 
do and remain cognizant of what they 
mean to our workforce’s culture and 
well-being.

•  Our uncompromising values and ethics are key to 

our sustained success

•  People are the power behind a safe workplace 

•  Our people are central to all we do

Learn more 

16

Corporate ResponsibilityDemographics and Transparency 

To demonstrate our commitment to human capital and all it encompasses, it is essential to transparently 
share information about our workforce demographics and data. In 2021, 27,300 employees worked at 
Southern Company. Of those employees in 2021, the following is representative:

27,300

Total Headcount
(99.8% full-time employees)

25%

Women

29%
People of Color

32%
Employees Covered
by Union Agreements

58%

Underrepresented 
Groups as % of New Hires

58%

Promotions to People 
of Color and Women

45 yrs. Average Age
 15 yrs. Average Tenure

7.7%
Low Turnover Rate
(Majority retirements)

Beginning with the 2020 reporting year, Southern Company committed to disclose annually an aggregate 
summary of workforce data each Southern Company subsidiary submits to the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) through Form EEO-1.

17

Corporate ResponsibilityDiversity, Equity 
and Inclusion 

Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 
are essential aspects for our company. 
At Southern Company, Our Values 
foster a diverse, inclusive, equitable and 
innovative culture so that employees 
can execute our business strategy 
with agility and accountability. Our 
Moving to Equity work reflects our 
committment to DE&I in our workforce 
and our communities. Our community 
efforts include partnerships with diverse 
suppliers and philanthropic investments 
in historically underrepresented and 
marginalized communities.

•  We have refocused our efforts toward a more 
holistic goal of diversity, equity and inclusion

•  Energy justice has been added as a focus area 

in our Moving to Equity initiative

•  Southern Company is committed to supplier 
diversity that reflects the diversity of our 
customer base and energizes our success

Learn more 

18

Spotlight: Moving to Equity 

Following events in 2020 highlighting racial 
injustice in our society, we adopted Moving 
to Equity as our framework to demonstrate a 
collective commitment to our work. Subsequently, 
we published a 2021 Moving to Equity report updating 
stakeholders on progress in our commitment areas.

Key efforts and commitments include:

•  Talent: committing to a diverse, equitable and 

inclusive workplace to better serve our customers 
and communities; increasing and improving outreach, 
recruitment, hiring and retention of diverse groups 
at all levels of the workforce; ensuring equity in 
leadership development programs; and seeking 
diverse candidate slates for all positions, including 
management roles.

•  Culture: promoting an actively anti-racist culture 
to ensure that all groups, especially historically 
underrepresented and marginalized groups, are well-
represented, included and fairly treated within all 
levels of the organization, and that everyone feels 
welcomed, valued and respected.

•  Community: committing $225 million over five 

years to advance racial equity and social justice in 
our communities with a focus on criminal justice, 
economic empowerment, the advancement of 
educational equality and energy justice.

•  Political Engagement: advocating for racial equity 
through our political engagement, policy positions 
and ongoing public dialogues. 

•  Suppliers: aiming to increase our minority business 
enterprise spend to 20% and total diverse spend to 
30% by 2025, and committing to developing and 
doing business with more Black-owned businesses in 
our industry and communities.

We provide updates on our progress through our Boldly 
Forward website and an annual Moving to Equity 
report.

Corporate ResponsibilityCommitment to Undertake a Racial Equity Audit

Southern Company has committed to undertake a racial 
equity audit, conducted by a third party in 2023, in response 
to feedback from key stakeholders. The audit will focus on 
Southern Company’s implementation of initiatives to support racial 
equity and inclusivity within our workforce and the communities we 
serve, as set forth in our Moving to Equity commitment framework. 
As part of the process, we will engage key stakeholders including 
employees and civic organizations relevant to the audit. We 
anticipate publishing a report based on the audit at the end of 2023. 

19

Corporate ResponsibilityCommunity Relationships 

Southern Company is committed 
to being “A Citizen Wherever We 
Serve,” meaning our employees 
are inextricably woven into the 
communities we are privileged to 
serve. Our charitable giving, employee 
volunteer efforts and economic 
development initiatives are focused 
on making communities thrive for 
generations to come.

•  We work proudly within our communities to make    

a difference every day

•  Each year, Southern Company contributes to 

independent funds, non-profit organizations and 
foundations that are working to improve education 
equity, increase economic empowerment, promote 
environmental stewardship and revitalize communities

•  Southern Company has been helping hometowns 

across our states grow and prosper for over 100 years

Learn more 

20

Corporate ResponsibilitySpotlight: Community Support 

Day in and day out, we work proudly within 
our communities to make a difference. Southern 
Company weaves together financial grants, 
philanthropic programs, community board leadership 
and employee volunteerism to create positive 
momentum in communities where we serve, live and 
play. Our support is broad-based spanning education, 
health and human services, civic and community, 
environment, economic development and arts and 
culture. Social justice and equity considerations are at 
the forefront of our efforts.

We have a strong philanthropic commitment to our 
communities which is executed through several private 
foundations and corporate giving efforts across our 
subsidiaries. In 2021 we invested approximately $110 
million in grants, sponsorships, and impact investments 
across our territories.

2021 System-Wide Giving

~$110M invested in 2021

Commitment to Advancing Equity in Education

In 2022, the Nicor Gas Foundation committed to help fund 
the proposed Technology Lab within the Goodwill Excel 
Center School, a tuition-free charter school in Rockford, IL, 
that supports adult students in earning industry-recognized 
certifications and high school diplomas. The Excel Center 
Technology Lab will be a critical component to the Northern 
Illinois campus and will serve up to 300 low-income adult 
students per semester as they work to earn their high school 
diplomas and obtain jobs in growing, sustainable local industries. 
Nicor Gas is committed to advancing equity in education by 
serving our neighbors and ensuring students at the Excel Center 
School have access to the latest technology and tools needed to 
take the next step in their career.

21

Corporate ResponsibilityEducation35%Civic & Community35%Entertainment,Arts & Other12%Health &Human Services18%Governance and Policy Engagement 

Spotlight: Constructive Regulation  
and Public Policy 

Southern Company believes it has a responsibility 
to customers and stakeholders to participate in the 
political process and that our success is dependent 
on political engagement and advocacy. Meeting 
our net zero goal will require continued active and 
constructive engagement with government officials, 
investors and a wide variety of other public and 
private stakeholders. Policies that encourage and 
advance innovation while protecting the affordability, 
reliability and resilience of service are essential to 
meeting this goal.

Southern Company’s delivery of clean, safe, reliable 
and affordable energy is linked to constructive 
relationships with policymakers. Through these 
constructive relationships, we can communicate 
to policymakers the interests of our company and 
stakeholders. Southern Company engages directly 
with lawmakers and regulators and also participates 
in trade associations and industry groups that, among 
their many activities, engage in lobbying and advocacy 
on various matters.

Learn more 

In November of 2022, 
Southern Company 
published a Trade 
Association and Climate 
Engagement Report that 
includes information 
about our engagement 
with policymakers, with 
a focus on the climate-
related positions of trade 
associations to which 
Southern Company or a 
subsidiary pays dues of 
$50,000 or more and that 
lobby on federal energy policy. 

Southern Company promotes corporate 
governance standards and practices that 
drive long-term value for our stakeholders. 
Core to effective governance is consistent 
dialogue with our stakeholders, including 
regulators, investors and suppliers. We 
are committed to the highest ethical 
standards and proactive transparency at 
the Board level and throughout the entire 
organization.

Southern Company’s independent directors provide 
substantive oversight on strategy and risk issues across 
the ESG spectrum. The full Board discusses key ESG 
topics as part of its regular agenda, including fleet 
transition and human capital management. Committees 
take a deeper dive into ESG risks and opportunities and 
report out to full Board on key issues.

Learn more 

22

Corporate ResponsibilityBOARD COMMITTEES

Compensation & Talent 
Development Committee 

Oversees human capital management 
strategies, practices and programs, including 
talent acquisition, development and retention, 
diversity, equity and inclusion, employee 
engagement and wellbeing, performance 
management and pay equity reviews.

Nominating, Governance & 
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee

Oversees significant corporate responsibility 
strategies, programs and practices, including 
environmental sustainability and climate 
change, supporting community investment 
and social justice, advancing supplier diversity, 
public policy advocacy, political contributions 
and lobbying and assessing ESG feedback 
from shareholders and other stakeholders.

The full Board 

regularly discusses 

key ESG topics as part 

of its regular agenda, 

including fleet 

transition and human 

capital management.

Committees take 

a deeper dive 

into ESG risks and 

opportunities and 

report out to full 

Board.

Operations, 
Environmental & 
Safety Committee

Oversees reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 
and fleet transition, including net zero carbon 
strategies, resource planning, emerging 
technologies and R&D and the impact on 
employees and communities of implementing 
the business strategies and operations.

Audit 
Committee

Oversees the adequacy and effectiveness of 
internal controls, including the development 
of internal controls for non-financial 
ESG-related data and disclosures.

Finance 
Committee

Oversees capital investment, including 
alignment of long-term capital allocation 
strategies with net zero objectives.

Business Security & 
Resiliency Committee

Oversees cybersecurity, physical security 
and operational resiliency, including issues 
and policies relating to climate change and 
its impact on business resiliency.

23

Corporate ResponsibilityOur Sustainability Priority Matrix

Our internal and external stakeholders 
scored the key sustainability priorities on a 
scale from 1 to 10 for impact (the ability of 
Southern Company to influence the priority) 
and importance. This graph represents those 
collective perspectives.

Southern Company and external stakeholder 
top three sustainability priorities align:

1. Clean Energy

2. Safety and Health

3. Energy Reliability and Resiliency

2021 
Sustainability 
Priorities 
Assessment

Southern Company partnered with the 
EPRI to conduct a Sustainability Priorities 
Assessment to understand internal and 
external stakeholder interests in key 
areas related to sustainability. Leadership 
and employees from across the system, 
including from the five largest operating 
companies, provided feedback for 
the internal stakeholder perspective. 
External stakeholders included 
customers, investors, non-governmental 
organizations and suppliers.

Through internal focus groups and interviews with 
select stakeholders, we identified 23 key sustainability 
priorities, which were further evaluated through a 
survey distributed to a broader stakeholder base. 
Both internal and external stakeholders rated Clean 
Energy, Safety and Health and Energy Reliability 
and Resiliency in the top five of the sustainability 
priorities. The additional top priorities were Cyber and 
Physical Security and Financial Performance for internal 
stakeholders, and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and 
Human Rights for external stakeholders.

The valuable insights gained from this extensive study 
are informing our corporate sustainability strategy, 
stakeholder engagement and sustainability disclosures. 
Leadership across the Southern Company system 
have engaged in thoughtful discussions around the 
priorities, which contributed to the development of 
our six corporate sustainability priorities: Net Zero and 
Environment; Reliability, Resilience and Affordability; 
Innovation; Workforce Sustainability; Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion; and Community Relationships.

24

High Impact 
and High 
Importance

Scale 0 to 10

Corporate ResponsibilitySustainability Priorities

Priority Descriptions

Air Quality 

Clean Energy

Climate Change 

Community Vitality 

Environmental and health impacts from non-GHG air emissions produced by 
company operations

Facilitation of decarbonization through investment and deployment of low and 
zero-carbon resources, including energy efficiency, renewables, storage and other 
solutions

Physical, operational, and planning risks and opportunities resulting from changes 
in the climate

Economic prosperity, betterment, and involvement in communities served or 
impacted by company operations

Customer Engagement 

Interaction with customers through evolving services, technologies, communication, 
and education

Cyber and Physical 
Security

Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion

Energy Affordability 

Energy Reliability 
and Resiliency

Protection of facilities, systems, infrastructure, and customer and company 
information from digital and physical threats

An inclusive company culture that embraces, motivates, promotes, and supports     
a diverse workforce, leadership team, and other partners in our community

Affordability of energy services for all customers accounting for the value of 
services delivered

Effectiveness of operational infrastructure and resource planning to ensure 
dependable delivery of energy for customers and timely, safe recovery from 
disruptive events

Financial Performance 

Short- and long-term financial performance

Greenhouse Gases

Greenhouse gas emissions produced through company operations

Governance

Business systems and processes and senior leadership that identify and manage 
internal and external risks and enable accountability and effectiveness of company 
activities

Habitat and Biodiversity

Vitality and stewardship of natural habitats and the species that depend on them

Human Rights

Innovation

Just Transition

Transparency and improvement of human rights practices including, but not limited 
to, fair treatment, forced labor, child labor, and freedom of association

Technology and process advancements that substantially enhance the value of 
energy services

Equitable access for workers and communities to the benefits and protection from 
the risks associated with decarbonization of the economy

Public Policy Engagement

Ethical engagement with local, state, and federal regulators and elected officials 
consistent with business strategies and priorities

Safety and Health

Safety, health, and well-being of employees, contractors, and the public with 
respect to interaction with owned or managed assets

Stakeholder Relationships 

Trust-based and transparent relations with all stakeholders

Supply Chain 

Economic, environmental, human rights and social performance of diverse suppliers 
and resilience from disruptive events

Waste 

Water 

Management, reduction, and/or reuse of waste, including coal combustion residuals 
and spent nuclear fuel

Quality, availability, and efficient use of water resources

Workforce Development

Hiring, training, mentoring, engaging, and retaining appropriately skilled and 
experienced workers that reflect the communities we serve

25

Corporate ResponsibilitySouthern Company Alignment with UN Sustainable Development Goals

The United Nations has established a framework of 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which serve as a blueprint 
for protecting the planet and reaching global peace and prosperity. Sustainable development has been defined as 
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet 
their own needs. These goals are used by countries, companies and organizations to demonstrate progress toward 
the reduction of poverty and inequalities, preservation of natural resources, promotion of quality education and 
responsible consumption and innovation for energy and infrastructure. Southern Company has mapped our six 
corporate sustainability priorities to the goals, indicating our alignment with a sustainable future.  

Our core business as an energy company has the most direct impact on progress for the following goals:

•  Increased zero and low-carbon resources to 31% of the generation mix in 2021 (from 15% in 2007)
•  Plans to increase renewable generation to greater than 17,000 MW by 2030 from 11,000 MW in 2021
•  Constructing the first two new nuclear units in the United States in more than three decades 
•  Proposes to reduce the coal fleet to 8 units (<4,500 MW) by the end of 2028, approximately half of 2021 capacity
•  Leading Department of Energy (DOE)-funded project with TerraPower to develop the molten chloride fast reactor

•  Invested $66 million toward the 2025 goal of $225 million to advance racial equity and social justice in our 

communities 

•  Increased our total diverse spend to 26% in 2021 with a 30% goal for 2025
•  Published the 2021 Transformation Report: Moving to Equity
•  Partnered with Apple to launch the Propel Center for HBCU students

•  Transitioned 21% of light-duty fleet vehicle to electric in 2021 with a 50% electrification goal for 2030
•  Southern Company and Southern Company Gas collaborated with industry partners to establish a two-year DOE 
project, HyBlend, which will address the technical barriers of blending hydrogen in natural gas infrastructure

•  Awarded a renewed five-year collaborative agreement in 2020 to continue managing and operating the 

National Carbon Capture Center for DOE

•  Founding member of Energy Impact Partners, a venture capital fund dedicated to accelerating the transition 

to a clean energy future

•  $4 billion combined investment for transmission and distribution infrastructure enhancements and the 

construction of additional zero carbon resources in 2021 

•  $44 billion planned for capital investment for transmission and distribution infrastructure, renewables, grid 

resilience, electric transportation and other opportunities for 2022-2026

•  Leading participant in EPRI’s Climate READi: Power Resilience and Adaptation initiative aimed at 

strengthening the power sector’s collective approach to managing climate risk to the power system

•  Southern Power added two battery-based energy storage projects at solar facilities in California

•  Reduced GHG emissions by 47% in 2021 from the 2007 baseline, with a goal of 50% by 2030 and net zero by 2050
•  Completed third-party verification/assurance of Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions for 2021 and 2020
•  Natural gas distribution operation fugitive methane intensity of 0.195% in 2021, below the ONE Future 2025 

goal of 0.44%

•  Transition plan aligned to the 1.5°C climate scenario
•  Guided by four Environmental Principles: demonstrate commitment, lead innovation, be accountable and 

promote conservation and stewardship

Southern Company less directly impacts the following goals through employee and community initiatives, and conservation 
and stewardship.

26

Corporate ResponsibilityKey Data 
and Metrics 

We recognize the value our investors and stakeholders place on transparency, 
and we are committed to continued enhancements. Our ongoing dialogue 
with investors and stakeholders helps to inform our disclosures and ensure 
we are providing meaningful information. As part of our commitment to 
transparency, we compile an ESG Data Table that includes the data and metrics 
most applicable to our company and desired by our stakeholders. We also align 
our reporting with the frameworks commonly used by our industry and in our 
country of domicile. The links below provide direct access to each document.

Southern Company 
ESG Data Table

TCFD Content 
Index (Task Force 
on Climate-
related Financial 
Disclosures)

SASB Content Index 
(Sustainability 
Accounting 
Standards Board) – 
Electric Utilities & 
Power Generators

GRI Content Index 
(Global Reporting 
Initiative) 

SASB Content 
Index – Gas 
Utilities and 
Distributors

27

Corporate Responsibilitysoutherncompany.com

