2016
Corporate Responsibility Report 
The energy to lead

Southern Company Environmental 
Information on the web 

Southern  Company  publishes  and  periodically  updates 
this  report  and  several  detailed  reports  on  environmental 
activities, which frame the issues and outline the Southern 
Company system’s actions to address them.

Reports include:

 • Corporate Responsibility Report
 • Water Action Report
 • Carbon Disclosure Report

To access the reports, go to southerncompany.com and click 
on “Reports” under the “Corporate Responsibility” tab. 

A  Message  from  the  Chairman, 
President and CEO

development  with  a  major  investment  in  a  leading 

natural  gas  pipeline  system  serving  the  southeastern 

United States. 

Most 

companies 

come  and  go  in  a 

matter 

of 

years. 

They  serve  a  need, 

then 

fizzle  when 

the  need  no  longer 

exists. 

Companies 

that 

last,  on  the 

other  hand,  commit 

to  the  community, 

embrace  technology 

and 

transform 

themselves  to  meet  customers’  needs  in  a  changing 

environment. That’s how we have stayed relevant for 

more  than  a  century.  Southern  Company  is  a  lasting 

company with the energy to lead the change. 

A  prime  example  is  our  industry  leadership  when 

it  comes  to  energy  innovation.  In  order  to  provide 

clean, safe, reliable and affordable energy to millions 

of  customers,  we  must  continue  to  build  and 

maintain  power  plants.  These  plants  are  long-life 

assets, some of which we strive to operate for many 

decades.  Technological  advances  and  population 

growth often spur us to identify innovative ways to 

generate  energy  and  reduce  emissions.  This  can  be 

seen  in  Georgia  Power’s  construction  of  two  new 

nuclear  units  near  Augusta,  Ga.  Upon  completion, 

these  new  nuclear  units  –  which  represent  cutting-

edge engineering and layer upon layer of redundant 
safety  systems  –  would  be  among  the  first  in  the 
United States in more than 30 years.

In  2016,  Southern 
Company acquired 
AGL  Resources  –  now  Southern  Company  Gas  – 
whose  primary  business  is  the  distribution  of  natural 
gas  through  the  natural  gas  distribution  utilities. 
Southern Company Gas is also involved in several other 
businesses, including gas marketing services, wholesale 

gas  services  and  gas  midstream  operations.  We  also 

expanded  our  leadership  in  energy  infrastructure 

Natural  gas  is  abundant,  reliable  and  highly  versatile 
and will continue to play an integral role in our ability 
to  provide  a  full  portfolio  of  energy  resources  to  the 
customers and communities we are privileged to serve. 
In addition to generating electricity, natural gas can be 
used  to  fuel  industrial  processes  and  motor  vehicles 
and keep our homes and businesses comfortable while 
reducing our environmental impact.

Southern  Company  is  the  only  energy  company 
dedicated to developing the full portfolio of resources 
for America's energy future. We are implementing new 
technology  designed  to  turn  lignite  coal  into  gas  – 
which  Mississippi  Power  is  deploying  at  a  new  plant 
currently  under  construction  in  Kemper  County,  Miss. 
–  to provide cleaner electricity. And we’re partnering 
with  the  U.S.  Department  of  Energy  to  research  the 
capture  and  storage  of  carbon  dioxide  to  help  keep 
coal a viable fuel option into the future.

A  century  ago,  the  southeastern  U.S.  was  primarily 
agrarian  and  the  population  was  sparse.  Southern 
Company  founder  James  Mitchell  understood  that 
electricity  could  attract  manufacturing  businesses. 
Today,  we  continue  to  be  part  of  the  team  that 
has  encouraged  companies  such  as  Kia,  Airbus  and 
Mercedes  to  come  to  the  region.  We’re  also  proud  of 

1
1

 
our  dividend  record.  Dating  back  to  1948,  Southern 

hours annually to improve the communities we serve. 

Company  has  continuously  paid  a  quarterly  dividend 

The Southern Company system and its employees are 

that  has  been  equal  or  greater  than  the  previous 

involved  because  these  communities  are  our  homes. 

quarter to its shareholders. In 2017, Southern Company 

The stronger we make them, the better off we will be 

raised the dividend on its common stock for the 16th 

individually, as a company and as a community.

consecutive year. 

Our  corporate  responsibility  program  is  dynamic;  we 

Another  example  of  our  sustainability  efforts  is 

are  continually  making  adjustments  as  changes  in 

the  company’s  committed  governance.  Due  to 

technology, population and the regulatory environment 

the  regulated  nature  of  our  business,  governance 

permeates everything we do. Southern Company has a 

occur. I believe we need a national energy policy that:
 •

enables  continuous  innovation  in  how  energy   

management council, board of directors, code of ethics 

and policies and procedures in place to ensure we are 

doing what is required. Our employees do what is right 

companies provide energy for customers;
 • maintains the availability of a diverse fuel mix;
 •

enables  companies  like  Southern  Company  to 

thanks  to  a  cultural  norm  that  we  call  Our  Values. 

continue to be successful; and

Some  see  the  tenets  of  Our  Values  –  safety  first, 

 •

helps  save  consumers  money,  generates  jobs  and 

unquestionable  trust,  superior  performance  and  total 

reduces environmental impacts.

commitment – simply as our core values. But they are 

so much more. I like to define actions as whats or hows. 

Throughout  this  report,  you  will  read  about  our 

If  following  the  rules  is  what  we  do,  then  Our  Values 

corporate  responsibility  efforts.  We  hope  this  gives 

represent  how  we  do  it.  And  there  is  an  expectation 

you a sense of how our actions and leadership benefits 

at Southern Company that all hows are done through 

the  customers  and  communities  we  are  privileged  to 

collaborative  leadership  that  keeps  the  goal  in  mind 

serve.  If  you  are  interested  in  more  comprehensive 

while preserving integrity and respect for all involved.

information about our corporate responsibility efforts, 

please see our online Corporate Responsibility Report 

The  Southern  Company  system  serves  9  million 

at 

http://www.southerncompany.com/corporate-

customers  and  operates  in  19  states.  Our  32,000 

responsibility.html

employees 

live,  work,  play  and  volunteer  with 

customers  because  we  are  part  of  the  community. 

Thank you for your interest in Southern Company. 

Social responsibility has become an important part of 

Yours truly,

who we are and our long-life assets avail us to being 

a permanent fixture in the communities we serve. Our 

employees and retirees freely give more than 210,000 

Thomas A. Fanning

2
2

This  technology  has  other  environmental  benefits, 

including  reduced  nitrogen  oxide,  sulfur  dioxide  and 

mercury emissions.

Smart  grid  investments,  including  approximately  4.6 

million smart meters that have already been installed 

throughout  the  system,  will  continue  to  serve  as  a 

communication connection with customers and enable 

them to save money by shifting electricity use to off-

peak hours or trimming how much power they’re using. 

Smart meters also reduce company vehicle use and the 

corresponding emissions.

We  have  helped  customers  reduce  energy  usage  and 

save  money.  Since  2000,  energy-efficiency  programs 

Innovation in Energy

The Southern Company system continually strives to 

reduce  the  environmental  impact  of  its  operations, 

help customers use energy more wisely and promote 

diverse  fuel  options.  Employees  apply  innovative 

technology  and  thinking  while  solving  everyday 

problems  and  inventing  new  ways  to  make,  deliver 

and reduce the environmental impact of the energy 

upon which customers rely.

A  diverse  portfolio  of  available  energy  resources 
consisting  of  carbon-free  nuclear,  21st  century  coal, 
natural  gas,  renewables  and  energy  efficiency  is 

expected  to  meet  growing  customer  demand  and 

maintain reliability for generations to come. 

We are constructing two new nuclear units at Georgia 

Power  to  add  more  than  2,200  megawatts  (MW)  of 
emission-free  capacity  to  the  state  of  Georgia.  Upon 
completion, the new units, which are expected to have 
a  60-year  life,  will  help  meet  the  significant  demand 
increase  expected  by  2030  in  the  Southeast.  Nuclear 
energy  produces  no  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  has 
unmatched reliability and can relieve cost uncertainty 
caused by coal and natural gas prices.

The Kemper County energy facility under construction 
at Mississippi Power is designed to capture at least 65 

percent  of  carbon  dioxide  (CO₂)  emissions,  which  is 

expected to be sold as a useful product in oil recovery. 

3
3

have  helped  the  Southern  Company  system  reduce 

The  Southern  Company  system  leads  the  nation  in 

peak demand by more than 4,800 MW and avoid more 

non-road electric transportation technology through a 

than  2  billion  kilowatt-hours  of  energy  use.  That's 

multitude of total-electric non-road transportation and 

enough electricity to power the cities of Savannah, Ga., 

charging technologies. Non-road electric transportation 

Birmingham, Ala. and Montgomery, Ala. for a year.

is  used  at  airports,  seaports,  rail  yards,  mines  and 

distribution 

centers. 

Electric  material-handling 

In 2003, Southern Company Gas formed a new specialized 

equipment  is  being  used  in  almost  every  industry  to 

business  unit,  Energy  Services,  which  helps  federal 

move cargo, stock, pallets and other materials. 

clients  improve  energy  efficiency  while  reducing  their 

carbon  footprint.  Energy  savings  resulting  from  those 

We’re  reducing  carbon  emissions  by  increasing  the 

client  projects  from  2004  –  2016  equaled  124,726,401 

use of less carbon-intensive energy, including nuclear, 

cumulative pounds (56,575 metric tons) of CO₂. 

hydro  and  renewables  like  wind,  biomass  and  solar. 

Southern  Company's  subsidiaries  may  self-build 

renewable  generation  and/or  enter  power  purchase 

agreements  for  energy  and  environmental  attributes 

from  generating  facilities  fueled  by 

renewable 

resources.  The  companies  retain  the  right  to  use  the 
energy  delivered  as  renewable  energy  for  customers 
and  retire  the  environmental  attributes,  as  well  as 
the  right  to  sell  the  energy  and  the  environmental 
attributes,  separately  or  bundled  together,  to  third 
parties at their sole discretion.

With Georgia Power's current construction of new units 
3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle, we are among the first utilities 
in 30 years to be actively constructing new nuclear. In 
addition,  through  our  subsidiary  Southern  Power,  we 

operate one of the nation’s largest wood biomass plants 

in  Texas.  Since  January  2012,  the  Southern  Company 

4

system  has  placed  in  service  or  has  planned  for  over 

7,000  MW  of  renewables,  in  addition  to  an  existing 

2,800 MW of renewable, hydro-based generation. 

The system's renewable energy portfolio now includes 

solar projects in seven states, including Georgia Power's 

development  of  the  nation's  largest  voluntary  solar 

initiative of any utility in the U.S. with over 850 MW. A 

key component of this growth in renewable generation 

is the system’s collaboration with military customers to 

help them fulfill their renewable requirements. Over 365 

MW of solar generating capacity has been announced 

or  installed  on  19  military  bases  in  Alabama,  Florida, 

Georgia and Mississippi, the largest number of military 

base projects of any energy company in the country.

In addition to solar projects, we are also growing wind 

assets. As of May 2017, Southern Power owns more than 

1,440 MW of wind generating capacity at eight facilities 

operating  or  under  development  in  Maine,  Oklahoma 

and  Texas.  Alabama  Power,  Georgia  Power  and  Gulf 

Power have purchased, or plan to buy, more than 900 

MW of wind generation from Oklahoma and Kansas.

The system’s 33 hydro facilities in Alabama and Georgia 

continue to provide clean, renewable energy. In 2016, 

the  system  generated  more  electricity  from  natural 

gas than coal, representing a continuing shift from our 

historical fuel mix.

Carbon  capture  research  continues  at  our  National 

Carbon  Capture  Center  (NCCC),  which  we  manage 

and operate in partnership with the U.S. Department 

of  Energy  (DOE).  Located  in  Wilsonville,  Ala.,  the 

NCCC  serves  as  a  world-class  neutral  test  facility  for 

evaluating  and  advancing  the  development  of  cost-

effective carbon capture technologies from both coal 

and natural gas power generation and more effective 

and  cost-efficient  geological 

storage.  Southern 

Company  also  joined  DOE  and  other  worldwide 

partners in a 25-MW demonstration of carbon capture 

on a pulverized-coal power plant at Alabama Power's 

Plant Barry. The facility can capture up to 150,000 tons 

of CO₂ annually for permanent underground storage.

Another  clean  coal 

technology  developed  by 

Southern Company at NCCC is a state-of-the-art coal 

gasification technology, known as Transport Integrated 
Gasification,  or  TRIGTM,  which  uses  air  rather  than 
pure oxygen – and lower-grade lignite coal – to more 
affordably gasify coal.

Southern  Company  Gas  has  been  a  leader  in  pipeline 
replacement since the 1990s, putting it at the forefront 
of reducing GHG emissions. The company has replaced 
much of its older pipe with state-of-the-art corrosion 
resistant pipes. Since 1998, Southern Company Gas has 
replaced  5,300  miles  of  bare  steel  and  cast  iron  pipe 

and, as a result, has removed 2.5 million metric tons of 

CO₂ equivalent from its natural gas distribution system. 

5

 
We  are  the  industry  leader  in  water  conservation 

in  partnership  with  the  National  Fish  and  Wildlife 

technology.  The  company’s  Water  Research  Center  at 

Foundation to protect and restore wildlife and habitats 

Plant Bowen in northwest Georgia enables companies 

in the Southeast.

worldwide  to  test  technologies  to  improve  water 

efficiency.  In  2016,  we  withdrew  approximately  2.9 

Reduce, reuse, recycle is the company’s philosophy on 

billion gallons per day from surface waters, a 21 percent 

waste.  The  Southern  Company  system  operates  an 

reduction from 2015 – primarily due to the retirement 

aggressive  program  that  recycles  paper,  cardboard, 

of  units  with  once-through  condenser  cooling.  Over 

plastic, wood, electronic waste and metal. On average, 

the  past  six  years,  approximately  93  percent  of  the 

almost  53  percent  of  the  system's  coal  combustion 

water  withdrawn  has  been  immediately  returned  to 

residuals (CCRs) were recycled in 2016, including over 

the  source,  where  it  is  available  for  downstream  use. 

2.5 million tons of ash and 2.1 million tons of gypsum. 

The  company  continues  to  evaluate  technologies  to 

Ash  is  used  primarily  in  concrete  and  cement,  and 

further improve water management efficiency.

gypsum is used as an agricultural soil amendment and 

in building products.

We  manage  land  resources  and  biodiversity  for 

the  benefit  of  customers,  communities  and  the 

Making the system’s operations sustainable is a focus 

environment.  The  Southern  Company  system  has 

area. One of the ways we are showing that we “walk 

opened  more  than  120,000  acres  of  land  leased  for 

the  walk”  is  by  obtaining  LEED  (Leadership  in  Energy 

public use through hunting leases or operated by state 

and  Environmental  Design)  certification  for  buildings 

agencies as Wildlife Management Areas.

we  manage,  including  the  Georgia  Power  corporate 

In  managing  lakes,  shorelines  and  natural  areas,  the 

center  and  Alabama  Power  power  delivery  training 

Southern  Company  system  balances  generation, 

building in Calera, Ala., which was the first gold-level 

environmental  and  economic 

factors.  Southern 

LEED-certified building in Alabama.

headquarters,  Gulf  Power  distribution  operations 

Company manages three major conservation programs 

Economic Stewardship

The Southern Company system’s core commitment is 

to provide clean, safe, reliable and affordable energy 

to customers. Additionally, we serve the interests of 

our shareholders and communities through economic 

stewardship efforts.

Long-term  investor  growth  has  been  shown  by 
Southern  Company  common  stock  outperforming 
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the long term, 
producing  an  average  annual  total  return  of  11.8 
percent  for  Southern  Company  compared  with  7.6 
percent  for  the  S&P  500  over  the  20-year  period 
ending on Dec. 31, 2016. 

Southern Company investors have received consistent 
quarterly dividend payments. In the first quarter of 2017, 
the  company  marked  69  years  of  dividend  payments 

that were equal to or greater than the previous quarter, 

dating back to 1948. Southern Company recently raised 

6
6

the  dividend  on  its  common  stock,  marking  the  16th 

The  lignite-fueled  generating  facility  being  built  in 

straight year that it has done so.

Kemper County, Miss. has created approximately 6,000 

jobs  during  its  construction  and  involved  more  than 

Economic  development  efforts  have  brought  an 

570 Mississippi companies. When in service, the facility 

average  of  16,800  new  jobs  and  $5.5  billion  in  capital 

is  expected  to  require  approximately  500  permanent 

investment  each  year  to  the  southeastern  United 

employees, including the plant and adjacent mine.  

States. Each of Southern Company’s traditional electric 

operating companies – Alabama Power, Georgia Power, 

Through  2016,  the  traditional  electric  operating 

Gulf  Power  and  Mississippi  Power  –  has  an  economic 
development  program  that  works  to  bring  companies 
and jobs to the region. Southern Company is also proud 
of  the  fact  that  the  system’s  two  largest  construction 
projects  –  two  new  nuclear  units  under  construction 
at  Georgia  Power  and  a  lignite-  fueled  generating 
facility under construction at Mississippi Power – have 
generated thousands of jobs.

Construction  of  two  new  nuclear  units  near  Augusta, 
Ga.,  is  employing  more  than  6,000  people  during 

companies  had  invested  approximately  $11.9  billion 
to  put  environmental  control  technologies  to  work 
for  customers,  and  plans  to  spend  an  additional 
$2.9  billion  between  2017  and  2021  to  comply  with 
environmental regulations.

Competitive  electric  prices  are  a  business  imperative. 
Our  prices  have  been  below  the  national  average 
for  the  past  quarter  century.  A  diverse  supplier  base 
maximizes  the  value  of  the  Southern  Company 
system’s  supply  chain.  We  purchase  from  more  than 

construction  and  would  create  800  permanent  jobs 

3,900 small and diverse businesses annually and have 

upon the start of plant operations.

spent $4.2 billion with them over the past five years.

7
7

 
Committed Governance

The  Southern  Company  system’s  comprehensive 

governance program sets the highest standards for 

its  employees,  officers  and  directors.  The  system 

works  to  meet  all  disclosure  requirements  and  to 

serve as a model of transparency for all corporations.

Our  Values  is  the  company’s  model  for  corporate 

and  professional  values.  Employees  are  expected  to 

exhibit  the  four  tenets  of  Our  Values  –  safety  first, 

unquestionable  trust,  superior  performance  and  total 

commitment – in every interaction, every day. 

A  fully  integrated  ethics  and  compliance  framework 

includes  the  Southern  Company  compliance  officer 

reporting 

structure,  which 

involves 

subsidiary 

compliance officers, the ethics and compliance council 

and compliance governance teams. Also, defined in the 

framework are the various reporting and investigative 

programs  designed  to  ensure  potential  issues  are 

effectively  brought  to  management’s  attention. 

Additionally, each employee assumes responsibility for 

ethics and compliance through ongoing training and an 

annual compliance questionnaire.

Our Values

How we do our work is just as important as 

what we do. Our uncompromising values are 

key to our sustained success. They guide our 

behavior and ensure we put the needs of those 

we serve at the center of all we do.

Safety First

Unquestionable Trust

Superior Performance

Total Commitment

Southern  Company’s  code  of  ethics  sets  clear 

expectations  for  employees.  The  Corporate  Concerns 

program  provides  employees  with  a  confidential 

reporting line and objective evaluation of any potential 

breach of the code of ethics that is reported.

Southern  Company’s  management  council  includes 

operating company presidents and other key executives 

who serve to identify and incorporate emerging issues, 

including  those  related  to  economic,  environmental 

and  social  aspects,  into  company  policy.  Through 

formal  and  informal  gatherings,  management  council 

members regularly seek opportunities to communicate 

with employees at all levels.

Southern  Company’s  CEO  and 

14 

independent 

directors, with diverse skills and experience, comprise 

the  company’s  board  of  directors.  Board  members 

serve  on  the  audit,  compensation  and  management 

succession, finance, governance and nuclear/operations 

committees,  providing  review  and  oversight  of  these 

functional areas.

Stakeholder  engagement  involves  interfacing  with 

a  diverse  and  widening  group  of  stakeholders  with 

interests in reliable and affordable energy, shareholder 

value,  economic  growth,  community  support,  the 

environment  and  more.  Southern  Company  is  using 

feedback  from  stakeholders  to  improve  the  way  we 

report information to the public.

For  public  view  on  the  company  website  are  all 

Southern Company Security and Exchange Commission 

filings,  including  all  Forms  10-K  and  10-Q  and  SEC 
filings  by  directors  and  officers,  at  http://www.
southerncompany.com/secfilings.  Southern  Company 
also  annually  reports 
its  political  spending  and 
provides  a  list  of  trade  associations  and  coalitions 
engaged  in  lobbying-related  activities  that  received 
payments  of  $50,000  or  more.  This  information, 
together with overviews of the policies and practices 
for  political  spending  and  lobbying-related  activities, 
can  be  found  at  http://investor.southerncompany.
com/information-for-investors/corporate-governance/
political-contributions/

8
8

 
community 

initiatives  and  the  environment.  Our 

foundation and corporate giving programs contributed 

more  than  $49  million  to  nonprofit  organizations  in 

2016.  Additionally,  employees  contributed  more  than 

210,000 volunteer hours.

Renew  Our  Rivers  is  a  volunteer  program  to  clean 

waterways  in  the  Southeast.  Renew  Our  Rivers  has 

grown from a single river cleanup event to a nationally 

recognized  campaign  that  includes  river  systems  in 

Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi and the Florida Panhandle. 

Social Responsibility

An early company leader coined the phrase “A citizen 

wherever we serve.” The Southern Company system 

invests  in  people  and  the  community  and  honors 

our commitment to citizenship. The company and its 

employees have learned that the more you serve and 

help  the  communities  that  you  serve,  the  stronger 

they – and you – become.

Every job. Every day. Safely. This tagline stresses what 

the company’s Safety First value aims to achieve. We 

believe the safety of our employees and customers is 

paramount.  We  will  perform  and  maintain  every  job, 

every day, safely. Safety goals are in every employee’s 

performance  goals  and  the  company  has  a  policy  to 

begin  every  meeting  with  a  safety  message.  During 
2016, 99.16 percent of system employees worked injury 
free.  Since  introducing  our  safety  programs  in  2005, 
the Southern Company system has reduced the rate of 
employee injuries by 46 percent. 

The  charitable  foundations  at  Southern  Company’s 
operating  companies  and  departments  within  the 
company  provide  grants  and  donations  to  nonprofit 
organizations. Foundation giving is focused on health, 
human  services,  education,  arts  and  culture,  local 

9
9

and retain employees, the Southern Company system 

provides  its  employees  opportunities  to  learn,  grow 

and  advance  in  their  careers.  In  2016,  we  completed 

295  employee  transfers  between  our  subsidiaries, 

providing  new  opportunities  for  employees  to 

expand their knowledge of our industry and business 

operations. We promoted 518 employees to first-time 

supervisory roles.

This  focus  on  valuing  and  developing  employees  is 

reinforced  through  performance  management  efforts 

for  all  employees  by  leveraging  diversity  in  every 

aspect of the business and by cultivating an innovative 

culture throughout the company.

Our system is readying itself for workforce transitions 

brought  on  by  a  large  segment  of  the  employee 

population  becoming  eligible  for  retirement. 

In 

addition to general recruitment efforts, the company 

has 

joined  forces  with  high  schools,  technical 

Since  the  program  began  in  1999,  system  employees 

schools and colleges to recruit and prepare students 

have helped remove more than 14.2 million pounds of 

to  pursue  careers 

in  power  generation,  power 

trash from lakes and rivers. Renew Our Rivers has been 

delivery and nuclear energy. The company’s military 

recognized with numerous prestigious awards.

partnerships  and  recruitment  efforts  continued  to 

have  a  significant  impact  on  its  hiring  over  the  last 

Throughout its history, the Southern Company system 

few  years.  In  2016,  10  percent  of  new  hires  were 

has  developed  and  sustained  a  highly  skilled  and 

veterans, National Guard or reservists. 

stable  workforce  that  fuels  its  superior  performance 

in  reliability,  customer  satisfaction  and  shareholder 

return.  Across  the  system,  the  average  employee  age 

is  45,  with  an  average  tenure  of  16  years.  Turnover 

averaged about 8 percent in 2016 in an industry that 

ranks low in employee turnover.

System employees bring a strong sense of commitment 
to their work. In our most recent engagement survey, 
employees  indicated  an  89  percent  favorability  score 
on  the  engagement  index—a  measure  of  their  level 
of  agreement  on  questions  of  corporate  advocacy, 
commitment, discretionary effort, pride, achievement 
and alignment. Our overall scores are above utility and 
general industry benchmarks.

In addition to offering competitive compensation and 
benefits  programs  that  both  attract  new  employees 

10

Social Responsibility

Industry

 •

 •
 •

 •
 •
 •
 •

2016-2017 World's Most Admired Electric and Gas 

Utilities, Fortune

2017 America's Top 100 Public Companies, Forbes

2017 Industry Excellence Award for Safety (Georgia 

Power), Southeastern Electric Exchange

2016 Company of the Year, Platts Global Energy

2016 Strategic Deal of the Year, Platts Global Energy

2016 Top 12 CEOs of the Year, Platts Global Energy

2016 

Industry  Excellence  Award  for  Safety, 

Southeastern Electric Exchange

Environmental

 •

2017 Top 5 Utility Solar Companies (Georgia Power), 
Solar Electric Power Association 

Culture

 •

 •

2017  Perfect  Score,  Human  Rights  Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index

2017 America’s Best Employers, Forbes

 •
 •
 •

 •
 •
 •

 •
 •

 •

2017 Top 50 Companies for Diversity, DiversityInc

2017 Top 10 Companies for Veterans, DiversityInc

2017  Top  Ranked  Company 

for  Progress, 

DiversityInc

2017 Best Employers for Vets, Military Times (17th)

2016 Top 40 Best Places to Work, Business Insider

2016  50  Best  Companies  for  Diversity,  Black 

Enterprise 

2016 Top Utility, Minority Engineer

2016  Most  Valuable  Employers  for  Military, 

CivilianJobs.com (7th)

2016  Best  Places  to  Work  in  IT,  ComputerWorld 

(10th)

Customer Satisfaction

 •

 •

 •

2017 National Key Accounts Outstanding Customer 

Service Award, EEI (13th)

2016  Top  Five  Spots,  Customer  Value  Benchmark 

Survey

2016  Top  10  Utilities  in  Economic  Development 

(Alabama  Power,  Georgia  Power),  Site  Selection 

(Gulf Power and Mississippi Power were named as 
finalists)

11

About Southern Company

Southern Company (NYSE: SO) is America’s premier energy company, with 46,000 MW of generating 

capacity  and  1,500  billion  cubic  feet  of  combined  natural  gas  consumption  and  throughput  volume 

serving  9  million  customers  through  its  subsidiaries.  The  company  provides  clean,  safe,  reliable  and 

affordable energy through electric operating companies in four states, natural gas distribution companies 

in  seven  states,  a  competitive  generation  company  serving  wholesale  customers  across  America  and 

a  nationally  recognized  provider  of  customized  energy  solutions,  as  well  as  fiber  optics  and  wireless 

communications. Southern Company brands are known for excellent customer service, high reliability 

and affordable prices that are below the national average. Through an industry-leading commitment to 

innovation, Southern Company and its subsidiaries are inventing America’s energy future by developing 
the  full  portfolio  of  energy  resources,  including  carbon-free  nuclear,  21st  century  coal,  natural  gas, 
renewables and energy efficiency, and creating new products and services for the benefit of customers. 

Southern Company has been named by the U.S. Department of Defense and G.I. Jobs magazine as a top 

military employer, recognized among the Top 50 Companies for Diversity by DiversityInc, listed by Black 

Enterprise  magazine  as  one  of  the  40  Best  Companies  for  Diversity  and  designated  a  Top  Employer 

for Hispanics by Hispanic Network. The company has earned a National Award of Nuclear Science and 

History from the National Atomic Museum Foundation for its leadership and commitment to nuclear 

development and is continually ranked among the top energy companies in Fortune's annual World’s 

Most Admired Electric and Gas Utility rankings. Visit our website at www.southerncompany.com.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Certain information contained in this report is forward-looking information based on current expectations 

and  plans  that  involve  risks  and  uncertainties.  Forward-looking  information  includes,  among  other 

things, statements concerning capital expenditures and the construction and future performance of the 

Kemper IGCC and  Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Southern Company cautions that there are certain factors 

that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward- looking information that has been 

provided. The reader is cautioned not to put undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which 

is not a guarantee of future performance and is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, 

many of which are outside the control of Southern Company; accordingly, there can be no assurance that 

such suggested results will be realized. The following factors, in addition to those discussed in Southern 

Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, and subsequent 
securities  filings,  could  cause  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from  management  expectations  as 
suggested  by  such  forward-looking  information:  the  impact  of  recent  and  future  federal  and  state 
regulatory changes, including environmental laws regulating emissions, discharges and disposal to air, 
water and land, and also changes in tax and other laws and regulations to which Southern Company and 
its subsidiaries are subject, including potential tax reform legislation, as well as changes in application 
of existing laws and regulations; current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, proceedings or 
inquiries; the effects, extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the markets in which 
Southern Company’s subsidiaries operate; variations in demand for electricity and natural gas, including 
those relating to weather, the general economy and recovery from the last recession, population and 
business growth (and declines), the effects of energy conservation and efficiency measures, including 
from  the  development  and  deployment  of  alternative  energy  sources  such  as  self-generation  and 

12

distributed generation technologies; available sources and costs of natural gas and other fuels; limits 

on pipeline capacity; effects of inflation; the ability to control costs and avoid cost overruns during the 

development, construction and operation of facilities, which include the development and construction 

of generating facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed; the results 

of Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and its affiliate (collectively, Contractor), WECTEC Global Project 

Services Inc. (formerly known as CB&I Stone & Webster, Inc.), formerly a subsidiary of The Shaw Group 

Inc.  and  Chicago  Bridge  &  Iron  Company  N.V.,  bankruptcy  filing  and  the  impact  of  any  inability  or 

other failure of Toshiba Corporation to perform its obligations under its guarantee of certain payment 

obligations of the Contractor, including any effect on the construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, 

as  well  as  the  engineering,  procurement  and  construction  agreement  for  Plant  Vogtle  Units  3  and  4 

and Georgia Power’s U.S. Department of Energy loan guarantees; the ability to construct facilities in 

accordance with the requirements of permits and licenses, to satisfy any environmental performance 

standards  and  the  requirements  of  tax  credits  and  other  incentives,  and  to  integrate  facilities  into 

the  Southern  Company  system  upon  completion  of  construction;  advances  in  technology;  ongoing 

renewable energy partnerships and development agreements; state and federal rate regulations and 

the  impact  of  pending  and  future  rate  cases  and  negotiations,  including  rate  actions  relating  to  fuel 

and other cost recovery mechanisms; legal proceedings and regulatory approvals and actions related 

to Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, including Georgia Public Service Commission (PSC) approvals and Nuclear 

Regulatory  Commission  actions;  actions  related  to  cost  recovery  for  the  Kemper  IGCC;  the  ability  to 

successfully  operate  the  electric  utilities'  generating,  transmission  and  distribution  facilities  and 

Southern Company Gas’ natural gas distribution and storage facilities and the successful performance 

of  necessary  corporate  functions;  the  inherent  risks  involved  in  operating  and  constructing  nuclear 

generating facilities; the inherent risks involved in transporting and storing natural gas; the performance 

of projects undertaken by the non-utility businesses and the success of efforts to invest in and develop 

new opportunities; internal restructuring or other restructuring options that may be pursued; potential 

business  strategies,  including  acquisitions  or  dispositions  of  assets  or  businesses,  which  cannot  be 

assured to be completed or beneficial to Southern Company or its subsidiaries; the possibility that the 

anticipated  benefits  from  the  acquisition  of  Southern  Company  Gas  cannot  be  fully  realized  or  may 

take longer to realize than expected, the possibility that costs related to the integration of Southern 

Company and Southern Company Gas will be greater than expected, the ability to retain and hire key 

personnel  and  maintain  relationships  with  customers,  suppliers  or  other  business  partners,  and  the 

diversion of management time on integration related issues; the ability of counterparties of Southern 

Company and its subsidiaries to make payments as and when due and to perform as required; the ability 

to obtain new short- and long-term contracts with wholesale customers; the direct or indirect effect 
on the Southern Company system's business resulting from cyber intrusion or terrorist incidents and the 
threat of terrorist incidents; interest rate fluctuations and financial market conditions and the results of 
financing efforts; changes in Southern Company's and any of its subsidiaries' credit ratings; the impacts 
of any sovereign financial issues; the ability of Southern Company's electric utilities’ to obtain additional 
generating capacity (or sell excess generating capacity) at competitive prices; catastrophic events such 
as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and other storms, droughts, pandemic 
health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences; and the direct or indirect effects on the 
Southern Company system's business resulting from incidents affecting the U.S. electric grid, natural gas 
pipeline  infrastructure  or  operation  of  generating  or  storage  resources.  Southern  Company  expressly 
disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking information.

13

southerncompany.com

May 2017/1701416

Printed on recycled paper

