SCHNITZER STEEL 
INDUSTRIES, INC.
Fiscal 2017- Fiscal 2018 
Sustainability Report

PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS IN 
THE GLOBAL MARKETPLACE

Tamara L. Lundgren

President and CEO

A message from our CEO

As a leader in the metals recycling industry, we are proud to present our fifth annual Sustainability 
Report covering Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018. We have enhanced our report, providing additional details 
on our Company’s environmental, social, and governance (ESG) progress across five areas: (1) integrity, 
ethics, and compliance; (2) safety, health, and wellness; (3) diversity, inclusion, and cultural awareness; 
(4) community engagement and partnerships; and (5) environmental performance and protection. 

At Schnitzer, Sustainability is at the core of what we do. By recycling scrap metal, we are diverting 
and reusing millions of tons of materials each year that might otherwise be destined for landfills. The 
ferrous and non-ferrous scrap metal we process is utilized to manufacture new metal-based products, 
conserving natural resources and significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We estimate that, 
based on our ferrous scrap volumes in fiscal 2018, over 4 million metric tons of CO2 emissions were 
avoided compared to the use of new iron ore to manufacture steel.  This is the equivalent of taking more 
than 900,000 cars off the road for one year.

Sustainability is also at the core of how we operate. Almost 80% of our electricity consumption comes 
from renewable sources.  As a result of our investment in a state-of-the-art water recycling system, we 
re-use 80% of the water at our steel manufacturing mill in Oregon. We are building on these foundations 
to do even more in these areas and others, including investing in environmental control and advanced 
processing technologies and reducing emissions from and increasing the fuel efficiency of our front-
line equipment. 

As further described in this report, we continue to show year-over-year improvement in our 
Sustainability key performance indicators which have been externally verified and assured for accuracy. 
In both Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018, we lowered our carbon emissions, energy consumption, water 
usage, and process waste generated on a normalized (per unit) basis. We also diverted more waste from 
landfills by recycling higher volumes of scrap metal. While 76% of our facilities experienced zero lost 
time due to injuries in Fiscal Year 2018, we are committed to improving our safety performance across 
all of our facilities. Every job can and must be done safely every day. 

We have been creating value through recycling for over a century. On behalf of our Board of Directors 
and our over 3,500 employees, I invite you to read this report which highlights how we continue to 
positively impact the communities where we work and live and the many ways we are contributing to a 
sustainable future for all our stakeholders.

2  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Overview of Schnitzer

Founded in 1906, Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (“Schnitzer”) has grown 
into one of North America’s largest recyclers of ferrous and nonferrous 
scrap metal with a workforce of over 3,500. Sustainability is at the center 
of our business model, and we actively promote and support sustainable 
practices throughout our operations.

Today, we operate 96 auto and metals recycling facilities in 23 states, 
Puerto Rico, and Western Canada. Through our seven deep water 
ports and our access to rail and interstate highways, Schnitzer is well-
positioned to efficiently deliver processed scrap metals for reuse by 
mills and foundries around the world. Our steel mill in Oregon produces 
finished steel products such as reinforcing bar (rebar), merchant bar, and 
wire rod from recycled scrap metal primarily sourced from our own metals 
recycling operations.  Through our 52 retail self-service auto parts stores, 
we recover and re-sell millions of parts from end-of-life vehicles. In 2018, 
we were recognized as a World’s Most Ethical Company for the fourth 
consecutive year by the Ethisphere Institute and named Scrap Company 
of the Year for the third time by American Metal Market.

Our ability to deliver sustainable value is tied to our ability to deliver 
sustainable profitability to our shareholders.  At Schnitzer, we generate 
both economic and environmental benefits by providing long-term metal 
recycling solutions globally.  Our financial performance is a key driver of 
our Sustainability performance.  In Fiscal Year 2017 and Fiscal Year 2018, 
we improved our financial performance, generating $56 million (Fiscal 
2017) and $149 million (Fiscal 2018) in consolidated operating income 
and earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.60 (Fiscal 
2017) and $5.46 (Fiscal 2018), while improving on our Sustainability key 
performance indicators.

Schnitzer‘s corporate headquarters are located in Portland, Oregon, and 
the Company has traded on the NASDAQ under the symbol SCHN since 
our initial public offering in 1993. The Company has paid a dividend 
every quarter since being listed. More information can be found by 
visiting our website at www.schnitzersteel.com.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  3

A leading metals 
recycler, Schnitzer 
provides sustainable 
value to the global 
economy

As a leader in scrap metal recovery and a manufacturer of finished 
steel products made from recycled scrap metal, we are helping to 
build a more sustainable world.  We process and capture value from 
end-of-life products, diverting materials that might otherwise be 
headed to landfills and significantly reducing reliance upon newly 
mined natural resources.   

Steel, our largest traded material, is the world’s most recycled 
product. Using recycled steel in manufacturing saves approximately 
75% in energy input, reduces water use by approximately 40% and 
virgin material use by 90%, and minimizes mining waste generation 
by 97% compared to manufacturing using newly mined ore. 

In addition, our auto dismantling facilities support an affordable 
and sustainable secondary parts market. Recovering and reusing 
auto parts from end-of-life vehicles reduces the extraction of 
virgin materials utilized in the manufacturing of new parts. After 
customers have removed desired parts from a vehicle, we crush the 
vehicle and recycle it through our shredding process to maximize 
the recovery of recyclable material from the car.

At Schnitzer, we continually strive to develop and apply innovative 
solutions to improve our operations. We are proud to share our 
story that illustrates how what we do makes good sense for 
business, society, and the environment.

4  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

What We Do:

Acquire and recycle millions of tons of scrap metal 
each year, including autobodies, rail cars, home 
appliances, industrial machinery, manufacturing 
scrap, and construction and demolition scrap, 
through our 96 auto and metals recycling facilities

Sell our recycled metal products for reuse by 
steel mills and other manufacturers located in 26 
countries, including the U.S. 

Manufacture finished steel products such as rebar, 
merchant bar, and wire rod at our electric arc furnace 
steel mill in Oregon using recycled scrap metal primarily 
sourced from our own metals recycling operations 

Sell millions of serviceable used parts from end-of-life 
vehicles at our 52 retail self-service auto parts stores, 
providing affordable parts to customers while saving 
resources that would be consumed in producing new parts

The Inherent Value 
of Recycling

Acting as a critical link in the steel manufacturing supply chain, the scrap recycling industry plays a prominent role as a job creator, economic leader, and environmental 
steward. Based on economic impact studies released by the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, Inc. (ISRI) and Schnitzer’s 2018 fiscal year scrap production volumes, we 
estimate our direct and indirect impacts on the U.S. economy to be valued at approximately $4.6 billion.

Additionally, we estimate our direct and indirect contributions to be:

21,104
U.S. jobs supported

$1.35 billion
in wages earned

$521.5 million
in taxes generated

With 96 operating facilities, we are proud to be supporting the economies of 23 states, 85 metropolitan cities, and over 100 communities across the U.S., Puerto Rico, and 
Western Canada.

The value-added environmental benefits of the scrap recycling industry are just as significant. According to the World Steel Association, for every metric ton of scrap steel 
recycled, 1.5 metric tons of CO2 emissions are avoided.

The inherent value of metals recycling and steel manufacturing benefits many industries:

•  Resource Conservation: 1 metric ton of steel made from scrap conserves approximately 1,728 pounds of iron ore, 1,389 pounds of coal, and 401 pounds of limestone
•  Energy Use: The recycling of a single can saves an amount of energy equivalent to: 1 laundry load, 1 hour of TV, or 24 hours of a 10-watt LED bulb.
•  Homes: Today, it takes approximately 28 trees to build the average U.S.-sized wood-framed home; the same-sized steel-framed home would require just 7 recycled cars.
•  Transportation: Shipping goods by sea is the most environmental-friendly, followed by trains then trucks. Steel is the major material used in ship hulls, shipping 

containers, rail systems, and heavy transport equipment.
Infrastructure: The most common applications of steel use in buildings and infrastructure are made up of reinforcing bar (rebar).

• 

As a recycler of scrap metal for use in remanufacturing in both domestic and foreign markets and a manufacturer of finished steel products made from 100% scrap metal, we 
are supporting sectors, industries, and economies beyond our own.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  5

 
Our Business Model

Over 40 metals 
recycling facilities

Over 50 auto parts retail 
outlets (Pick-n-Pull)

Global transportation 
network with 7 deep 
water ports

Our state-of-the-art 
electric arc furnace 
steel mill (Cascade 
Steel Rolling Mills)

6  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Auto Dismantling

Metals Recycling

Through our Pick-n-Pull brand, we operate an 
industry-leading chain of self-service used auto 
parts stores providing recovered, affordable 
auto parts to our valued customers. For over 30 
years, Pick-n-Pull has offered quality parts for a 
wide variety of makes and models of domestic 
and foreign cars, vans, and light trucks. 
With a focus on excellent customer service, 
developing ways to enhance efficient parts 
recovery and reuse, and upholding Schnitzer 
values, Pick-n-Pull is changing the self-service 
auto parts industry.

As one of North America’s largest recyclers of scrap metal, Schnitzer’s 
metals recycling facilities acquire, process, and recycle ferrous and 
nonferrous metal. Our strategically located facilities on both the 
East and West Coasts of North America enable efficient sourcing 
and delivery of processed metals to mills and foundries around the 
world for use in new metal product manufacturing.  Our direct access 
to rail, major highways, and deep water export terminals creates a 
competitive advantage for our business and allows us to transport 
our products in a cost-effective and energy-efficient manner. 
Strategic capital investments in facility infrastructure, equipment, 
and advanced technologies deliver recycling solutions and provide 
high-quality, efficient scrap metal processing. 

Steel Manufacturing

For more than 40 years, Cascade Steel 
Rolling Mills, Inc. has provided the Western 
U.S. and Canada with high-quality steel 
products produced from recycled scrap 
metal at our state-of-the-art electric arc 
furnace steel mill. Our products include 
rebar, coiled rebar, wire rod, merchant bar, 
and other specialty products. 

Ferrous Scrap – Total Sales Volumes (000’s Long Tons)

4,309

4,299

3,708

3,289

3,628

Steel Products
– Finished Volumes (000’s Short Tons)

Cars – Purchased Volumes (000’s Cars)

450

400

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

411

424

360

337

319

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

700,000

600,000

500,000

400,000

300,000

200,000

100,000

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

Nonferrous Scrap – Total Sales Volumes (000’s Pounds)

614,518

636,096

585,435

510,283

584,785

540

530

520

510

500

490

480

470

460

540

533

519

496

488

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

1 long ton = 2,240 pounds

1 short ton = 2,000 pounds

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  7

The Environmental 
Benefits of Recycling

Recognized as one of the world’s first green industries, scrap recycling reduces demand for our natural resources, achieves 
significant energy savings, avoids substantial air emissions, and reduces the amount of material disposed of in landfills. 
According to the EPA, scrap recycling in the U.S. saves the carbon equivalent of approximately 410 million tons of 
greenhouse gas emissions annually.

Schnitzer Fiscal Year 2018 Environmental Benefits

AVOIDED 4.2 MILLION 
METRIC TONS OF CO2 
EMISSIONS

SAVED 10 MILLION 
GIGAJOULES OF 
ENERGY

SAVED 7.4 MILLION 
CUBIC METERS OF 
WATER

CONSERVED 10 
MILLION CUBIC 
METERS OF 
LANDFILL SPACE

Equivalent to saving more 
than 477 million gallons 
of gasoline or taking more 
than 907 thousand cars 
off the road for 1 year

Equivalent to the carbon 
sequestered by more 
than 5 million acres of 
U.S. forest in 1 year 

Enough energy to power 
more than 259 thousand 
U.S. homes for one year

Enough water to fill more 
than 5,400 Olympic-sized 
swimming pools

Equivalent to the amount 
of garbage generated by 
5.9 million U.S. residents 
for one year

Note: Based on Schnitzer’s Fiscal Year 2018 volumes, the Report on the Environmental Benefits of Recycling published in 2016 by the Bureau of International 
Recycling (BIR), along with fact sheets published by the World Steel Association (WSA), and other resources published by the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA). Calculated environmental benefits based on the use of ferrous scrap metal in comparison to the use of newly mined iron ore in steel manufacturing.

8  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Contents

Introduction

Sustainability Governance 

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

Safety, Health, and Wellness

Diversity, Inclusion,
and Cultural Awareness

Community Engagement 
and Partnerships

Environmental Performance 
and Protection

Assurance, Awards, 
and Recognition

GRI index

About this Report

Our actions illustrate Schnitzer’s 
commitment to Sustainability 

As proud as we are of our history, Schnitzer also recognizes 
the value of change and innovation. We are continuously 
exploring and pursuing management practices that promote 
sustainable operations. In the past year, we have established 
a sustainability governance structure that will allow us to 
develop and deploy strategies that embrace change and 
innovation, setting a foundation that will enable us to refine 
the measurement of our progress across a wide range of 
sustainability metrics. 

Because we highly value the perspective of our stakeholders, 
we have conducted a Sustainability Materiality Assessment 
(“SMA”) to identify key Sustainability-related topics relevant 
to our employees, communities, shareholders, customers, 
and suppliers, among others. From surveys, interviews, and 
meetings, the SMA identified the issues that matter most to our 
stakeholders.

Aligned with the findings of our SMA, this year’s Sustainability 
Report shares progress across five areas: (1) integrity, ethics, 
and compliance; (2) safety, health, and wellness; (3) diversity, 
inclusion, and cultural awareness; (4) community engagement 
and partnerships; and (5) environmental performance and 
protection.

Now in our fifth year of reporting, we have enhanced our 
Sustainability Report to cross-reference against Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. As in prior years, our 
Sustainability key performance indicators are aligned with 
internationally recognized standards, and the metrics we are 
reporting have been assured by independent analysis.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  9

At Schnitzer, we are driven by our culture and 
commitment to our core values including:

Sustainability

Safety

 Integrity

Schnitzer helps provide sustainable value 
through recycling resources, extracting maximum 
use out of end-of-life products and reducing the 
need for intensive mining of virgin material for use 
in steel manufacturing. For every 100 metric tons 
of ferrous scrap recycled, approximately 97 metric 
tons of carbon dioxide emissions are avoided in 
steel manufacturing, saving 230 gigajoules of 
energy and conserving 45,000 gallons of water.

Our auto recycling facilities also support the 
concept of re-use by providing affordable used 
vehicles and auto parts to consumers. For each 
car recycled, approximately 86% of its material 
content is recycled, reused, or used for energy 
recovery, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 
approximately 2.38 metric tons. 

We understand the importance of using 
sustainable practices within our operations that 
help meet customer quality needs while, at the 
same time, minimizing environmental impacts. 
As we look to the future, sustainable innovations 
that create competitive advantage, improve 
the financial performance of our company, and 
support responsible environmental stewardship 
will remain central to our business strategy and 
long-term success.

Schnitzer is dedicated to providing a safe 
workplace for our employees, contractors, 
visitors, and the neighborhoods and 
communities where we are located. We approach 
safety management proactively through 
leadership accountability, hazard identification, 
training, employee empowerment, and open 
communication. 

At Schnitzer, integrity is at the core of 
every relationship. We treat employees, 
customers, business partners, 
suppliers, investors, and the public 
with respect, fairness, and integrity, 
and expect the same in return. From 
day one, we instruct our employees to 
act ethically in all business dealings.

Schnitzer has a fully dedicated professional 
health and safety team to educate employees, 
maintain regulatory compliance, and facilitate 
continuous safety improvement through 
effective management practices and safe work 
procedures. We work together to identify and 
eliminate potential risks throughout the company 
and expect every employee to do their part.

Our health and safety management program 
follows four guiding principles to inform 
decision-making and guide actions: Ownership 
(all employees are responsible), Collaboration 
(building a culture of safety), Priority (constant 
risk evaluation), and Vigilance (assess, monitor, 
and follow policies).

Across our Company, we strive to 
operate at the highest level of legal 
and ethical standards. Conducting 
business according to these values 
and promoting a positive, safe 
workplace requires a clear set of 
guidelines. Our Code of Conduct sets 
forth the ethical principles that guide 
our business and drive our culture of 
compliance, ethical decision-making, 
and accountability.

We place high value on a diverse and 
inclusive workforce where everyone 
is treated with dignity and respect. At 
Schnitzer, we work hard to build and 
maintain a culture based on Integrity. 

10  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

The top  issues identified in 
the Sustainability Materiality 
Assessment are: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity

Occupational health and safety

Economic performance

Anti-corruption

Supporting and engaging  local communities

Environmental compliance

Career development and job security

Compliance with competition laws

Energy (consumption and reduction)

Materiality

In 2018, we conducted a Sustainability 
Materiality Assessment (SMA) to identify, 
analyze, and act on environmental, 
social, and economic dimensions 
that may have significant impact on 
Schnitzer and its stakeholders. 

The objective of the SMA was to prioritize key issues most material 
to our stakeholders. Stakeholder groups include current and 
prospective employees, shareholders, regulators, local communities, 
customers, suppliers, and relevant non-profit associations. 

Combining surveys, meetings, a review of publicly available 
information regarding our industry sector, and internal stakeholder 
interviews, we assessed the importance of key Sustainability-related 
issues according to the:

• 
• 

Importance to Schnitzer; and
Importance to external stakeholders

Results were averaged and plotted to identify the relative 
importance of each issue. The insights gained from our SMA 
are being used to help guide our Sustainability strategy and 
communications, including this Sustainability Report.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  11

  
AUDIT COMMITTEE

CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY
OFFICER

DIVISION
PRESIDENTS

GENERAL
COUNSEL

CHIEF COMPLIANCE
OFFICER

CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER

CHIEF DIVERSITY
OFFICER

CHIEF HUMAN
RESOURCES OFFICER

Sustainability Governance 

From Schnitzer’s origins over a 110 years ago as a one-man scrap 
metal collection operation to its position as one of North America’s 
largest metal recyclers, strong leadership and governance have been 
keys to our sustained success and our growth. Today, our experienced 
team leads the Company in establishing sustainable business 
practices that are essential to our future growth and long-term success.

At Schnitzer, corporate governance policies and procedures provide 
a strong foundation upon which we operate. These policies and 
structures promote business strategies and operations that produce 
successful results for all of our stakeholders.

Over this past year, we have further integrated sustainability into our 
existing corporate governance and organizational structures. At the 
end of Fiscal Year 2017, our CEO appointed a Chief Sustainability 
Officer (CSO), reporting directly to her. The CSO provides regular 
updates to our Board of Directors which oversees the Company’s 
Sustainability strategy.

The CSO analyzes, builds consensus for, and manages sustainability-
related initiatives, projects, and goals that are supported by executive-
level leadership and are visible throughout the organization.

Schnitzer also has a Sustainability Leadership Group that serves as an 
internal strategic working group to collaborate on the development 
and deployment of sustainable and socially responsible business 
practices. This cross-functional group engages leadership across 
business units, geographic regions, and job functions. The group 
seeks to design practical and sustainable solutions and to mobilize 
our workforce to carry out initiatives such as applying environmental 
considerations to equipment procurement decisions and planned 
operational changes, supporting our culture of ethical behavior, and 
leading other stakeholder engagement events including participation 
by our employees in Earth Day activities.

12  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

A message from our Chief 
Sustainability Officer

Corporate commitment to Sustainability is positively shaping 
our world while creating tangible financial benefits to 
companies willing to actively engage in the effort. Through our 
business model, we are actively addressing resource scarcity, 
supporting our communities, and promoting environmental 
stewardship. As one of North America’s largest metal 
recyclers, Schnitzer is well positioned to serve the needs of our 
shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, communities, 
and other stakeholders more effectively than ever before.

Schnitzer’s strategy is deeply rooted in Sustainability, and 
both Fiscal Year 2017 and 2018 have been exciting years in 
our Sustainability journey. We have made progress on our 
Sustainability practices: decreasing our carbon and process 
waste generated volumes per ton, deploying capital in 
more environmentally efficient operational equipment, and 
developing a multi-year corporate Sustainability strategy that 
we believe will deliver even more sustainable value in the 
future. To realize this strategy, we rely on the actions of our 
more than 3,500 employees who bring their individual skills, 
experience, and passions to bear.

We continually strive to be good stewards of our environment; 
to deliver positive social benefits for all our stakeholders, 
including our employees and the communities in which we 
operate; and to create a well-positioned Sustainability strategy 
that supports strong financial performance in the competitive 
global marketplace.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  13

Andrew J. Naporano III

Chief Sustainability Officer

Integrity, Ethics, 
and Compliance

Integrity is at the center of all we do. While 
the role of Schnitzer’s Compliance Program 
is to foster a company-wide culture of ethical 
behavior and compliance with law, we recognize 
that the ultimate responsibility for integrity — 
doing the right thing every day — lies with each 
and every one of our employees. Our recognition 
as a World’s Most Ethical Company for four 
consecutive years is a source of great pride and 
an acknowledgement that our employees are 
indeed upholding Schnitzer’s core values of 
sustainability, safety, and integrity.

Callie Pappas

Chief Compliance Officer

14  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies® Award

In 2018, Schnitzer was named a World’s Most Ethical Company for the fourth 
consecutive year by the Ethisphere Institute, an international think tank focused on 
ethics and compliance. This prestigious award is given exclusively to companies 
that have a material impact on the way business is conducted by fostering a culture 
of ethics and transparency at every level of the company. Specifically, winners must 
demonstrate leadership in five key categories: ethics and compliance; corporate 
citizenship and responsibility; culture of ethics; governance; and leadership, 
innovation, and reputation. Only 135 companies worldwide were honored in 2018. 
Schnitzer is the only metals recycling company among the winners.

Note: “World´s Most Companies” and “Ethisphere” names 
and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC 

Integrity, Ethics, 
and Compliance

Integrity is a core value at Schnitzer. Our Board of 
Directors, the executive team, and all of our employees are 
responsible for adhering to our Code of Conduct and all 
applicable laws and regulations and for maintaining our 
high standards of ethical behavior and business practices. 
Simply stated, everyone on the Schnitzer team is expected 
to do the right thing every day and treat everyone with 
respect and fairness as we serve our customers, business 
partners, investors, and communities.

This guiding principle 
of integrity means:

•  Doing the right thing for the right reasons, even when it 

may be more convenient or advantageous to take another 
approach.

•  Honoring and fulfilling our commitments and agreements 

as responsible citizens and employees.

•  Being honest, straightforward, and transparent at all times.

•  Working with honest companies equally dedicated to 

doing business in an ethical manner.

•  Acknowledging when we make mistakes, learning from 

them, and not repeating them.

•  Recognizing that every employee is responsible for ethics 

and compliance.

•  Never compromising our core values.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  15

Integrity, Ethics, 
and Compliance

Schnitzer maintains a robust and 
effective independent corporate 
compliance program led by our Chief 
Compliance Officer who reports 
jointly to the CEO and to the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors.

Ethics Program

Our focus is on promoting our Code of Conduct, 
communicating and educating our employees on the 
importance of making ethical decisions, and fostering an 
environment where employees feel free to report concerns. 

We train all of our non-union employees annually on 
our Code of Conduct as part of the “Our Core Values” 
training. In Fiscal Year 2017, we began including unionized 
employees in this training, and we will include all union 
employees in this training by the end of Fiscal Year 2019. We 
communicate broadly with our employees in English and 
Spanish. In Fiscal Year 2017, we presented inaugural Ethics 
in Action Awards to individuals and locations nominated by 
their colleagues for exemplifying our core values.

We empower our employees — the eyes and ears of 
our Company — to raise issues or concerns regarding 
compliance with our Code of Conduct. We offer multiple 
reporting channels, including a third-party confidential, 
multilingual hotline. We investigate and take appropriate 
action on all reports.

16  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

We have received Ethisphere’s 
Ethics Inside Certification every 
year since 2015, recognizing 
our superior employee and 
leadership culture that promotes 
ethical business practices.

 
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Program

Our Anti-Corruption Program utilizes risk assessment and risk management tools 
to promote strict adherence to applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and 
regulations, including maintaining accurate books and records. We scrutinize all business 
units for corruption risks and constantly evolve our program to address those risks.

In addition to our Code of Conduct, we have a comprehensive Anti-Corruption Policy 
available to all employees that details prohibitions against bribery, money laundering, 
and engaging with terrorists or other sanctioned entities. The policy also requires 
Schnitzer to maintain accurate books and records and prohibits facilitation payments. 

Our Anti-Corruption Manual helps employees understand these prohibitions 
and requirements set forth in the Anti-Corruption Policy and specifies roles and 
responsibilities for the Anti-Corruption Program, driving accountability. 

Our International Anti-Corruption Council, comprised of senior leaders in operations, 
finance, legal, sales, procurement and audit, monitors the execution of Schnitzer’s Anti-
Corruption Program and promotes it within the organization.

Essential elements of the Schnitzer Anti-Corruption Program are:

International contract administration

•  Accurate and transparent books and records
•  Effective third-party monitoring (including due diligence and auditing)
• 
•  Anti-corruption internal controls
•  Wire transfer controls and payment monitoring
•  Designated party screening

Ethisphere reviewed our Anti-Corruption 
Program and has awarded us their 
Anti-Bribery Program Verification every 
year since 2015. Recipients of this 
designation must prove they have 
designed, implemented, and enforced a 
robust, exemplary anti-corruption program 
capable of reasonably detecting and 
preventing bribery and corruption.

100% of business units 
analyzed for corruption risk

100% of non-union employees 
trained on our Code of Conduct (full 
union employee participation by end 
of Fiscal Year 2019)

100% of Code of Conduct 
complaints investigated

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  17

Safety, Health, and 
Wellness

Building a strong safety culture begins with 
us – each employee of Schnitzer.  We value 
our people above all else and demonstrate 
that through our daily actions. We build 
effective safety systems to help manage risks 
in the workplace and encourage timely and 
transparent reporting of safety incidents, 
including near misses, so we can learn how 
to avoid reoccurrence. Building an injury-
free workplace requires each one of us to be 
a safety champion every day.

Suresh Rajapakse 

VP Health and Safety 

18  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Safety, Health, and Wellness

A critical focus on the safety of our 
employees, visitors, suppliers, and 
customers is an essential priority for the 
strength and success of our organization. 
Starting and ending each day at Schnitzer 
means starting and ending safely. 

Our safety policies and programs are based on leading industry practices 
and developed in partnership with the unique expertise of our employees. 

Safety management is not proprietary — we actively participate in industry 
organizations involving best practices, reporting standards, benchmarks, 
and increasing the dialogue regarding industry safety trends. 

Schnitzer continues to place extra focus on implementing injury 
prevention programs to further work toward an injury-free workplace.

Serious safety incidents can be life-altering and impact families, friends, 
and co-workers. We recently updated and expanded our Critical 6 
Program that was initially established in Fiscal Year 2011 and is focused 
on eliminating potential high-risk events.

The Critical 6 include:

1.  Lockout and control of hazardous energy
2.  Confined spaces
3.  Fall protection
4.  Driver’s safety
5.  Use of mobile equipment
6.  Torching

With our Critical 6 Program, we aim to emphasize both constant diligence 
in daily operations in our facilities and embed safety in our team culture.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  19

SAFETY KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

Schnitzer is committed 
to providing a safe and 
healthy work environment 

Schnitzer’s safety culture is an essential component of our 
success.  While we improved our performance in 2018, we 
strive to continually improve our safety culture.  A strong safety 
culture benefits our employees, customers, and suppliers while 
supporting us in achieving our operational efficiency and 
performance goals. Key elements of building our strong safety 
culture include: individual ownership, collaboration, active 
vigilance to assess risks and eliminate workplace hazards, and 
mutual accountability among employees for each other’s safety.  
While 76% of our facilities experienced zero lost time due to 
injuries in Fiscal Year 2018, we are determined to continually 
improve our safety performance across all of our facilities.

At Schnitzer, we continually optimize safety education and 
training to maximize the protection and productivity of all. We also 
developed and offered new training programs and certification 
opportunities such as our ProTread over-the-road driver training 
and fire prevention training. 

TRC: 4.16
9% Improvement

DART: 2.49
4% Improvement

DAFW: 1.00
3% Improvement

Note: Improvement reflects reduction from Fiscal Year 2017 to Fiscal Year 2018.

20  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Leading by Example

Employee Wellness

Safety Recognition

We are proud of the following sites, among 
others, that lead by example with a strong 
safety culture.

The Schnitzer Wellness Committee 
promotes healthy lifestyles and proudly 
sponsored the following events:

46 FACILITIES RECORDABLE-FREE IN 2018.
THE FOLLOWING FACILITIES HAVE BEEN 
RECORDABLE-FREE FOR 5 OR MORE YEARS: 

• Vancouver, WA - Auto Dismantling Facility, 9 years

• Pasco, WA - Metals Recycling Facility, 9 years

• Cartersville, AL - Metals Recycling Facility, 6 years

• Fresno, CA - Metals Recycling Facility, 6 years

• Atlanta, GA - Metals Recycling Facility, 5 years

•  Home fire preparedness: With support 

from the American Red Cross Sound the 
Alarm campaign, we offered free home 
smoke detector installation to ensure all 
employees have working fire alarms.

•  Company-wide annual blood drive: 
Schnitzer is a corporate sponsor of 
the American Red Cross Missing Type 
campaign and sponsored regional blood 
drives to support the communities where 
we operate. 

Schnitzer is a charter member of the Institute 
of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI) Circle of 
Safety Excellence and was recognized with 
the following awards:

WARWICK, RI TRANSPORTATION FLEET

•  2017 Pacesetter Award, 1st Place, Medium 

Class 1,000,001–5,000,000 Miles 

• 2017 Best Fleet Award, 3rd Place, Medium 

Class 1,000,001–5,000,000 Miles

TACOMA, WA TRANSPORTATION FLEET

• 2017 Pacesetter Award, 1st Place,

Small Class 300,000 – 500,000 Miles

• 2017 Best Fleet Award, 3rd Place

Small Class 300,000 – 500,000 Miles

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  21

Diversity, 
Inclusion, and 
Cultural Awareness

At Schnitzer, we believe that if you are not actively 
including, you may be accidentally excluding.

Stef Murray

Chief Diversity Officer

We recognize that a company’s culture is a clear 
representation of every employee’s attitude and 
efforts. At Schnitzer, we have an unwavering focus 
on strengthening that culture for all, every day.

Erich Wilson

Chief Human Resources Officer

22  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Diversity, Inclusion, 
and Cultural Awareness

At Schnitzer, diversity and inclusion are the keys to our past achievements and 
fundamental for future success. We actively encourage a culture where everyone is 
treated with respect, fairness, and equal opportunity to reach their full potential within 
the organization. Maintaining a diverse workforce is not only ethically the right thing to 
do, it also drives innovation and creates stronger teams.

In 2017, to build on our progress in this area, we launched a formal Diversity and 
Inclusion Program to drive these principles throughout Schnitzer and strengthen our 
workforce. In 2018, we appointed a Chief Diversity Officer, reporting to our CEO. It is 
important to not only embrace employees of all backgrounds but to actively recruit 
from diverse talent pools as well. We are committed to fostering a respectful workplace 
with a zero-tolerance policy on discrimination and harassment based on race, ethnicity, 
age, military status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, and religion.  

In order to develop a healthy company that embraces diversity at all levels, principles of 
diversity and diverse perspectives are incorporated throughout the organization, from 
our production employees to our management and executive teams.

Employee Voices

“I did not think that I would be able to advance 
in the Company because my direct managers 
are all men. When I spoke to my manager 
about this, he found me an executive female 
mentor and encouraged me to speak to the 
Vice President of Human Resources. I now 
have routine career discussions and believe 
that I have a bright future with the Company.”

“Prior to joining the Company I was uncertain 
of how members of the LGBTQA community 
would fare in this type of industry.  As a gay 
male I can honestly say that my experience 
working at Schnitzer has been phenomenal.  
My manager and co-workers are inclusive 
and supportive of my ideas and contributions.  
I feel valued and accepted.  I couldn’t ask for 
a better team of people to work with.”

 “I’ve worked here for over 33 years and 
my experience is treated as an asset not a 
liability.  The people I work with now are 
some of the best and brightest we have 
ever seen.  I know that if I have a problem 
it will be taken seriously and addressed 
quickly.  I couldn’t always say that before.  
I’m proud to work for Schnitzer.”

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  23

Measuring Diversity and Inclusiveness

With over 3,500 employees, we take pride in our strong and inclusive workforce. To bolster our efforts in cultivating and maintaining a diverse 
population at work, Schnitzer has undertaken significant efforts to collect and benchmark diversity statistics against industry averages. This 
allows us to better understand the profile of the Company and identify opportunities to be even more inclusive. At Schnitzer, while we have 
made great progress and our diversity representation is generally comparable to -- and exceeds in some areas -- the industry average, 
we are not standing still. We are focused on doing more to attract a diverse workforce and promote a culture of inclusiveness.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENDER ASSOCIATION

38%

18%

40.0%

30.0%

25.0%

20.0%

15.0%

10.0%

5.0%

0.0%

30.0%

25.0%

20.0%

15.0%

10.0%

5.0%

0.0%

EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR 
OFFICER GENDER ASSOCIATION

WORKFORCE
GENDER ASSOCIATION

22%

19%

19%

23%

30%

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

Females

Females

Females

Schnitzer

Russell 3000

Schnitzer

EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate

Schnitzer

EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate

WORKFORCE ETHNICITY 
ASSOCIATION
U.S. workforce population only

Caucasian

Hispanic

African American 

Two or More Races

Asian

Nat. Hawaiian / Other Paciﬁc Islander

American Indian / Alaska Native

Not Speciﬁed

50%

29%

17%

17%

61%

11%

4%

3%

1%

1%

1%

Schnitzer

1%

3%

0%

0%

1%

EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate

24  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Cultural Awareness 
Campaign

An important component of maintaining a diverse workplace is 
building a positive, inclusive company culture based on mutual 
respect. As employees, we strive each and every day to foster a work 
environment that creates and enriches diversity.

In 2018, we rolled out our cultural awareness campaign focused on 
increasing cultural awareness, inspiring employee engagement, and 
fostering an environment where open and safe conversations can 
exist. The campaign is multi-faceted and includes posters, videos, 
newsletters, and discussions in town hall meetings designed to raise 
awareness and empower everyone to set a positive example and take 
responsibility for improving our culture. Topics covered as part of the 
campaign include bias and harassment, discrimination, bullying, and 
the importance of fostering a positive, inclusive culture at work.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  25

 
Community 
Engagement and 
Partnerships 

Every day I welcome the opportunities available 
to connect Schnitzer with all of our host 
communities. At Schnitzer, we believe in the value 
of community engagement and partnership. The 
relationships we build, grow, and strengthen with 
our neighbors, schools, chambers of commerce, 
civic organizations, and law enforcement truly lie 
at the heart of our business.

Colin Kelly

Director of Governmental and Public Affairs

26  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Community Engagement 
and Partnerships

We value community involvement throughout all parts of our businesses. In addition to operational 
excellence, Schnitzer is dedicated to the communities in which we live and work and has a long 
legacy of volunteerism, partnership, and charitable giving. Employees lead our local community 
engagement efforts through direct involvement in community initiatives and memberships in 
community organizations, as well as participation in philanthropic and charity events.

Employees at all of our facilities are frequently active and engaged in a wide range of local causes that 
include disaster relief and emergency preparedness/response, homelessness and food shortages, 
K-12 STEM and trade school education, environmental cleanups, and habitat restoration.

North Oakland Little League/South Oakland 
Little League (NOLL/SOLL) Illegal Bat Recycling
In July 2018, Schnitzer’s Oakland, CA facility 
helped recycle over 300 illegal aluminum baseball 
bats for NOLL/SOLL and donated the proceeds for 
new equipment.

Support of an education scholarship fund with Portland 
Community College
In June 2018, Tendayi “Aldo” Mhlanga, in pursuit of an 
Associate’s Degree in Electrical Engineering, was the recipient 
of our Schnitzer Steel – Chuck Ford Memorial scholarship.
“Growing up in the less privileged communities of Southern 
Africa has taught me to value education. Your financial 
support has moved me one step closer to my goal of 
graduating. By awarding me the scholarship, you have eased 
the financial burden I had and I can now concentrate on 
learning.”

Civicorps Graduation “Deans List” Sponsorship
Schnitzer was a title sponsor in West Oakland, CA for 
Civicorps’ Recycling Jobs Training and High School Diploma 
Academy. 

Industry Involvement

We are a proud member of the following 
organizations and associations:

American Wire Producers Association (AWPA)

Automotive Recyclers Association (ARA)

Bureau of International Recycling (BIR)

Business Roundtable (BRT)

Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute (CRSI)

Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI)

National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)

Steel Manufacturers Association (SMA)

U.S. Chamber of Commerce

“A Patriotic Employer” in Tacoma, Washington
In May 2018, Gordon Pump (Shredder Operations 
Manager in Tacoma, WA), received the 2018 Employer 
Support of The Guard and Reserve Award, which 
highlights employers who support military Reserve and 
National Guard members when serving on military duty.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  27

Celebrating Earth Day with 
our local communities

In April 2018, Schnitzer participated in the global celebration of Earth Day. This year, 
Schnitzer employees went above and beyond, with over 1,300 employees from 80 
facilities participating around the country. 

Our annual Earth Day celebrations are a clear example of how our business is 
rooted in Sustainability. Our volunteerism efforts convey our commitment and 
connectedness to the communities we serve. Local leadership and environmental 
stewardship roles within our communities are essential to our continued success. 

Our Earth Day activities ran the gamut from cleanups of local parks, beaches, and 
trails to invasive plant cutbacks, scrap drives with local school districts, customer 
appreciation days, tree planting, and recycling education booths. A few highlights 
include:

•  Pick-n-Pull hosted a national “REuse and REcycle” campaign sharing do-It-

yourself repair procedures, easy replacement alternatives, and maintenance 
techniques through YouTube videos, infographics, and online community 
narratives.

•  Various metals recycling locations partnered with local public works departments 
to aid recycling efforts, participated in community beautification projects, and 
sponsored classroom recycling education in partnership with EarthDay.org.
•  Cascade Steel Rolling Mill provided a free scrap drop for discarded metals 

and redundant electronics for the local community, partnering with the local 
Chamber of Commerce, Recology Western Oregon, and a local Boy Scout troop.

•  Together with WestRock Company, Fastenal, and Metro Parks, Schnitzer 

organized and led a beach cleanup of Owens Beach in Point Defiance Park in 
Tacoma, Washington. Attendees from local high schools and over 50 people 
from the Northwest region met for three hours to pick up waste and debris along 
the Puget Sound.  

•  Our Eugene, Oregon, facility hosted its annual community sustainability 

open house, bringing educational information to hundreds of customers and 
community members.

•  Our Portland, Oregon, facility held an annual barbeque and marketing event that 
brought in more than 1,400 tons of recyclable ferrous and nonferrous materials.

28  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

In partnership with SOLVE Oregon, 
6,200 volunteers including Schnitzer 
employees picked up 69,000 
pounds of trash and planted 3,500 
new native trees and shrubs 

Recovering resources 
while helping protect 
the environment   

Scrap Drives

In Tacoma, Washington, Schnitzer organized its annual scrap drive in 
April 2018 to support Meeker Middle School. The scrap drive kept 5,460 
pounds of material out of local landfills, and proceeds from the drive will 
help the school purchase critical items like uniforms, textbooks, and other 
teaching aids.

Our Kapolei, Hawaii, yard supports the Aloha Aina Recycling Drives in 
Oahu in partnership with the Kokua Hawaii Foundation, a non-profit 
specializing in community-based recycling and education programs. 
Schnitzer donates all proceeds from the drives to local schools. The 
proceeds from the scrap drives are used to purchase school classroom 
supplies, school garden supplies, and food at student club meetings.  
Beyond that, these proceeds also support educational field trips, enable 
the students to attend local conferences, and assist in the building of 
vermicomposting bins.

Ocean Cleanups

Since 2008, our Fishing for Energy partnership has provided collection bins 
at 54 participating ports in nine states, drawing over 3.8 million pounds of 
old or unwanted fishing gear. Gear collected at the ports is first sorted at 
Schnitzer for metals recycling before any remaining non-recyclable material 
is converted into energy at third party locations. Approximately one ton 
of fishing nets equals enough electricity to power one home for 25 days.  
Jeff Trandahl, executive director and CEO of the National Fish and Wildlife 
Foundation, noted that “Schnitzer Steel’s support has been instrumental 
in the long-term success of this innovative conservation program, which 
recycles such derelict gear for energy and other useful purposes.”

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  29

Photo Credit: Sustainable Coastlines Hawaii

Schnitzer Steel has been integral in our ability to 
keep Hawaii’s coastlines clean. Beyond assisting in 
the process of shredding hundreds of thousands of 
nets annually so they can be converted to energy at 
H-Power, Schnitzer Steel also shreds our large ocean 
plastic allowing for it to be more easily transported.

Kahi Pacarro

Executive Director, Sustainable Coastlines Hawaii

Contributing to a safe and positively engaged society

Weapons Destruction and Recycling

Since 2009, Schnitzer in Everett, MA has supported the Boston Police Department and 
other local police departments by recycling metal from weapons taken off the streets. 
Boston Police, one of sixteen local police departments, bring the guns to Schnitzer in 
Everett, which destroys the guns in its recycling facility. Police departments usually 
obtain the weapons from buyback programs and closed criminal cases, excluding 
homicides. Boston Police Firearms Examiner Gary Lewis said, “It’s important we destroy 
them so they can’t make it back into circulation, they can’t make it back on the streets.”

Training with Emergency Responders

Our facilities also support fire safety and prevention efforts by providing space and auto 
bodies for local fire departments to use in “Jaws of Life” and other lifesaving training 
exercises. Pick-n-Pull stores in Dallas, TX host monthly vehicle extraction classes conducted 
by both the Dallas Fire Department and the Irving Fire Department. All new recruits are 
trained on rescue and the use of the “jaws of life” equipment on selected vehicles. Pick-n-
Pull is proud to be a part of these lifesaving classes. According to Irving Fire Department 
Captain McWilliams, “This hands-on training is invaluable and something we can’t do at 
our training facilities. We are very thankful for Pick-n-Pull’s support of the community.”

Sponsorship for Local Art

In 2018, Schnitzer began an innovative partnership with the Crucible Fuego Youth Art Program, 
a nonprofit industrial arts school in Oakland, CA. The Crucible’s Fuego Program is designed for 
high school students interested in arts education through creative re-use of materials. 

As part of our contribution to this important program, we commissioned an art piece made from 
Schnitzer’s own recycled material to display in our main Oakland office. We also hosted several 
visits where students learned about the recycling process to gain inspiration for their project. 

Additionally, Schnitzer was the title sponsor of the Crucible’s Annual Fire and Light 
Fundraising Gala and a sponsor of Portland Opera to Go education and outreach program 
where the organization provides musical performances and education to under-served schools 
throughout Oregon and southwest Washington.

30  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Hunger Relief

One way Schnitzer is committed to our community is through our 
partnership with the Oregon Food Bank. We are excited to further 
this partnership by sponsoring an Oregon Food Bank truck that 
delivers food donations for distribution to those in need.

Over $250,000 Pick-n-Pull food bank 
donations in Fiscal Year 2018

Over 6,000,000 meal equivalents donated 
through the National Food Bank Drive since 2010

Supporting our 
Local Communities

Northern California Fire Relief

In response to the devastating October 2017 fires in Northern 
California, Schnitzer made it a priority to meaningfully contribute 
to the recovery process. Through a joint partnership with the 
Office of California State Assembly member Tony Thurmond and 
K to College (SupplyBank.org), we delivered 12 pallets of infant-
care supplies and diapers to local schools in affected areas.

Employee Disaster Relief Fund

In Fiscal Year 2018, Schnitzer collected over $120,000 
to aid employees and their families in the aftermath of 
disasters. The Schnitzer charitable foundation, Recycling 
For A Better Tomorrow, helped 12 employee families 
who had been impacted by the hurricane in Puerto Rico. 

Holiday Toy Drives

Just prior to the holidays, Schnitzer employees volunteered their 
time and energy with local community toy drives in Portland, 
OR and Oakland, CA, collecting donations and packaging gifts 
for local area children in need. In true Schnitzer fashion, the 
teams made efficient use of their volunteer time and cleared 
a significant backlog of inventory to keep the community 
toy drives on schedule. Recognizing this contribution to the 
success of the toy drives, the City of Oakland staff and the 
Mayor personally thanked the teams for their efforts.

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  31

Partnering with our Local Communities

At Schnitzer, we are proud to have a workforce of responsible community members who regularly engage with charitable 
organizations and donate time, needed resources, and knowledge for the good of the community. Our employees live and work 
in more than 100 communities in 23 states, 2 Canadian provinces, and Puerto Rico. Schnitzer actively embraces opportunities to 
support our employees in their community engagements and charitable efforts.  Examples of local community partnerships include:

Education

Public Health and Wellness

•  American Heart Association
•  American Red Cross
•  Emergency Food Network
•  Special Olympics of Massachusetts
•  Stampede for the Cure
•  The Kidney Foundation of Canada
•  Willamette Valley Cancer Foundation

•  Arrowhead Sandstone Elementary
•  Everett Public Schools
•  Meeker Middle School
•  Chemeketa Community College
•  Portland Community College
•  Linfield College
•  McMinnville School District

Cities, Parks, and Culture

•  Metro Parks Tacoma
•  Everett Italian American Association
•  Johnston Policy Benevolent Association
•  Oakland Parks and Recreation Foundation
•  Partnership for Providence Parks

Neighborhoods and the 
Environment

•  Citizens for a Healthy Bay
•  David Suzuki Foundation
•  Earth Day Network
•  Friends of the Library in Macon-Bibb County
•  Habitat for Humanity of McMinnville
•  Juliette’s House
•  Yamhill Community Action Partnership
•  Surfrider Foundation

Youth and Leadership 
Development

•  Big Brothers Big Sisters
•  Boys and Girls Clubs of America
•  Boy Scouts of America
•  Chelsea Chamber of Commerce
•  Propeller Club
•  Rotary #8
•  Tacoma Youth Marine Foundation
•  Volunteers of America

32  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Environmental 
Performance and 
Protection

A robust sustainability initiative is vital and 
central to our company’s environmental 
programs to ensure responsible management 
of air, water, and land resources in the 
communities where we live and work.

Scott Sloan

VP Environmental

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  33

Environmental Performance and Protection

 Our long-held commitment to Sustainability is more important than ever. Seeking added value through conservation, preservation, and recycling are the principles 
underlying more than a century of our success. 

Our environmental programs focus on practicing environmentally beneficial recycling and operating our businesses in an environmentally responsible manner. 
Through our strategy to implement sustainable practices, we aim not only to comply with applicable environmental regulations, but also to pro-actively minimize our 
environmental impact in the short, medium, and long-term. 

To measure our sustainability performance, we focus on carbon emissions, energy management and efficiency, water conservation and quality, resource recovery and 
waste diversion as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). We present a normalized (per-unit) value to show our operational efficiency and an actual value for these metrics.

In Fiscal Years 2017 and 2018, we improved our operating efficiency, reducing our carbon emissions, energy consumption, water usage (purchased and well water), 
and process waste generation on a per ton basis.

NORMALIZED ENVIRONMENTAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS*

l

)
s
e
u
o
a
g
G

i

j

(
y
g
r
e
n
E

)
s
r
e
t
e
M
c
b
u
C

i

(

r
e
t
a
W

700

600

500

400

300

200

100

0

718.57

40.00

720.12

34.17

283.82

272.83

644.52

36.15

226.57

9.42

9.34

FY14

FY15

7.98

FY16

50.00

45.00

40.00

35.00

30.00

25.00

20.00

15.00

10.00

5.00

640.29

596.42

31.84

29.80

251.56

7.55

FY17

198.20

7.36

FY18

)
e
2
O
C
m

t

i

(
s
n
o
s
s
m
E

i

)
t

m

(
e
t
s
a
W

Energy Consumption

Scope 1+2 Emissions

Water (Purchased and Well Water)

Landﬁll Disposed Process 
Waste Generated

*Note: This graph shows normalized 
values against the sum of 000’s of metric 
tons of finished steel sold, ferrous scrap 
shipped, and nonferrous scrap shipped.

34  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recovering value 
from end-of-life 
dismantling and 
recycling by-products

MATERIALS WE RECOVERED FROM 
END-OF-LIFE VEHICLES IN 2018:

At Schnitzer, we aim to achieve the highest 

beneficial use of all by-products generated by 

our operations.

For example, a by-product of the metal 

shredding process is a non-metallic material 

known as shredder residue. Shredder residue 

consists of materials such as seat cushions, 

insulation, rubber, glass, foam, and plastics. 

When possible we recycle this automotive 

shredder residue for beneficial use as 

alternative daily cover for  landfills. Daily cover 

is applied at the end of each day to the active 

portion of landfills to protect wildlife, minimize 

dust, deter pests, control odors, and isolate 

wastes that are placed into landfills. As many 

landfills traditionally use topsoil as daily cover, 

using automotive shredder residue instead 

can act to conserve topsoil and prevent the 

environmental impacts associated with topsoil 

mining. Shredder residue is also compactable 

which conserves landfill space.  In Fiscal Year 

2018, approximately 95% of shredder residue 

generated by our operations was beneficially 

used as alternative daily cover.

Similarly, through the steel manufacturing 

process at our Oregon steel mill, ferrous fines 
and solids that are by-products of finished steel 

are aggregated and recycled for beneficial 

use in various manufacturing and industrial 

applications.  In Fiscal Year 2018, approximately 

88% of this material was reused in this process.

BY-PRODUCT DISPOSITION 
PROPORTIONS

LANDFILL DISPOSED PROCESS 
WASTE GENERATED

9%

8%

9%

8%

7%

91%

92%

91%

92%

93%

60,000

50,000

40,000

30,000

20,000

10,000

s
n
o
T
c
i
r
t
e
M

9.42

9.34

48,447

7.98

7.55

42,284

32,051

33,239

7.36

37,760

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

0

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

100% 

90% 

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

10.00

9.00

8.00

7.00

6.00

5.00

4.00

3.00

2.00

1.00

0.00

Recycled By-products

Landfill Disposed By-products

Absolute

Normalized (per 000’s metric tons)

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  35

 
Increasing Energy Efficiency

We are continuously working to improve our energy efficiency. Approximately one quarter of the energy we consume is in the form of 
liquid and gaseous fuels for use in our equipment (on-road transportation fuels, off-road rolling stock, and metal-working activities). 
Each year we deploy capital to maintain and replace our equipment and seek out opportunities to improve fuel efficiencies. 

ENERGY MIX

FUEL ENERGY BY GROUP

46%

24%

30%

24%

2%

74%

Electricity

Fuels

Natural Gas

On Road Diesel

Off Road Diesel

Gasolines and Other Fuels

In Fiscal Year 2018, our purchase of new model material handlers 
with EPA-certified “Tier IV” engines, automated idling and stop 
processes, and “ECO” modes are contributing to our efforts to 
maximize energy-efficiency, conserve fuel use, and minimize 
emissions. For example, we estimate that replacing our old model 
material handlers with new models improves fuel economy by 
30%, in addition to reducing soot particles by 90% and reducing 
nitrogen oxide and hydrocarbon emissions by 50%. 

180,000

150,000

120,000

90,000

60,000

30,000

SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (MTCO2E)

ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ)

21.16

23.20

23.95

21.07

19.76

30.00

25.00

20.00

6,000,000

5,000,000

4,000,000

717.85

720.12

644.52

640.29

596.42

108,766

105,039

96,165

92,705

101,324

15.00

3,000,000

3,313,199

3,250,302

2,891,855

2,817,697

3,058,133

0

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

10.00

5.00

0.00

2,000,000

1,000,000

0

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

800.00

700.00

600.00

500.00

400.00

300.00

200.00

100.00

0.00

Absolute

Normalized (per 000’s metric tons)

Absolute

Normalized (per 000’s metric tons)

36  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Expanding our use of 
renewable electricity

Access to reliable, affordable, and clean energy has long 
been an important catalyst to sustainable economic 
growth at Schnitzer.  Building on this foundation, 
Schnitzer has also begun to take advantage of energy 
grid mixes that are less greenhouse gas intensive. 

Schnitzer’s headquarters reside in a LEED Gold certified 
building in Portland, Oregon. Our steel mill, located in 
McMinnville, Oregon, operates a state-of-the-art electric-
arc furnace that consumes electricity largely sourced 
from hydroelectric power generated by the Columbia 
River Dam System. Additionally, a significant portion of 
our metals recycling business operates in the Pacific 
Northwest, which is also largely powered by hydroelectric 
and other renewable source with low or no emissions.

In Fiscal Year 2018, Schnitzer has taken further steps in 
support of sourcing our electricity from GHG-free sources 
through our partnerships with Community Choice 
Aggregators in California:

SCOPE 2 (LOCATION-BASED) 
EMISSIONS (MTCO2E)

FISCAL 2018 POWER MIX 
FISCAL 2018 POWER MIX 
(MARKET-BASED)
(MARKET-BASED)

160,000

140,000

120,000

14.99

16.76

100,000

)
e
2
O
C
m

t

(
2
e
p
o
c
S

80,000

60,000

40,000

20,000

10.22

10.77

10.04

77,066

75,874

47,398

51,480

41,057

0

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

Absolute

Normalized (per 000’s metric tons)

20.00

18.00

16.00

14.00

12.00

10.00

8.00

6.00

4.00

2.00

0.00

75%

4%

4%

8%

9%

Hydroelectric

Nuclear

Fossil Fuels

Other Renewables

Other Non-renewables

Our Oakland, CA shredder/port 
facility and Pick-n-Pull store are 
Brilliant 100 participants with East 
Bay Community Energy

Our Moss Landing, CA and 
Salinas, CA Pick-n-Pull stores 
are MBgreen+ participants with 
Monterey Bay Community Power

Our Richmond, CA Pick-n-Pull 
store is a DeepGreen participant 
with Marin Clean Energy

Our Windsor, CA Pick-n-Pull store 
is an EverGreen participant with 
Sonoma Clean Power

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  37

 
 
Storm water management 

Clean water is one of our planet’s most valuable resources. Over the past five years, 
we have dedicated over $27 million in capital related to responsible storm water 
management. These capital resources have been utilized to construct and install 
new storm water infrastructure – storm water containment, conveyance, storage, 
recovery, and treatment systems – to improve storm water quality, increase storm 
water re-use, and minimize the volume of storm water discharges from our locations.

Our Oakland, CA and Everett, MA facilities have installed large water storage 
tanks and high capacity electrocoagulation (EC) treatment systems to collect and 
treat harvested storm water. In Oakland, water is harvested from catch basins and 
collected in tanks where it can be treated before being reused as cooling water in 
our shredder and dust suppression water throughout the facility. 

WATER USAGE
(PURCHASED AND WELL WATER IN CUBIC METERS)

283.54

272.83

251.56

300.00

250.00

226.57

1,283,810

1,164,709

1,095,648

1,107,027

1,016,265

198.20

200.00

150.00

100.00

50.00

0.00

FY14

FY15

FY16

FY17

FY18

Absolute

Normalized (per 000’s metric tons)

1,800,000

1,600,000

1,400,000

1,200,000

1,000,000

800,000

600,000

400,000

200,000

0

ACROSS ALL OUR 
FACILITIES, WE ESTIMATE 
THAT WE RECYCLE 
APPROXIMATELY 60% OF 
AGGREGATE WATER USED.

38  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Using Water 
Efficiently

Efficient water use in our steel manufacturing 
and metal shredding operations has 
always been key to our water quality and 
conservation efforts. Further, in the context 
of climate change and extreme weather 
events, we are taking steps to assess our 
water management risks and monitor our 
water management performance.

Water use at our steel mill accounts for approximately 70% of total 
Schnitzer water usage. Thanks to a state-of-the-art water recycling 
system, process water at the facility is able to be recycled up to 5 times.

Water in our metal shredding operations is mainly used for shredder 
cooling needs, air-emission controls, and dust-suppression activities. 
As part of an on-going corporate program, we annually deploy 
capital to continually improve our overall water management and 
conservation capabilities, including: constructing new water storage 
tanks; upgrading and installing water treatment systems; and paving 
unimproved surfaces to minimize dust. 

80% of the water used by our 
steel mill is re-used

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  39

Assurance and Disclosure

Voluntary Assurance:

Since 2014, we have engaged with Trucost to provide assurance of 
selected environmental data. Trucost undertook the assurance in 
accordance with AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 moderate-level assurance.

FISCAL 2017  TRUCOST ASSURANCE STATEMENTS

FISCAL 2018  TRUCOST ASSURANCE STATEMENTS

SCOPE

SOURCE

UNIT

QUANTITY

SCOPE

SOURCE

UNIT

QUANTITY

GHG SCOPE 1*

Natural gas, Diesel, 
Biodiesel, Gasoline, 
Ethanol, Fuel Oil, 
Kerosene, Propane 
and Acetylene

Metric tons 
CO2e

92,705

GHG SCOPE 1*

GHG SCOPE 2

Electricity

47,398

GHG SCOPE 2

Natural gas, 
Diesel, Biodiesel, 
Gasoline, Ethanol, 
Fuel Oil, Kerosene, 
Propane and 
Acetylene

Location-based 
electricity

Market-based 
electricity

Metric tons 
CO2e

101,324

51,480

50,143

WATER

Purchased and well 
water

m3

1,107,027

WATER

Purchased and well 
water

m3

1,016,265

Landfill disposal

51,636

Landfill disposal

55,839

SOLID WASTE

Recycled

Metric tons

567,914

SOLID WASTE

Recycled

Metric tons

685,969

Energy recovery

7,984

Energy recovery

14,547

*Note: the scope 1 emissions included within the assurance do not include fugitive or process emissions associated with Schnitzer’s steelmaking 
operations, which are reported to the Oregon Department of Enviromental Quality and the U.S. EPA under greenhouse gas reporting regulations.

Voluntary Disclosure:

As a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) over the past two years, Schnitzer is 
committed to voluntary disclosures of our carbon emissions, energy use, and water consumption.

40  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

Awards and Recognitions

World’s Most Ethical Companies

In 2018, Schnitzer was named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the 
fourth consecutive year by the Ethisphere Institute, an international think tank 
focused on ethics and compliance. This prestigious award is given exclusively to 
companies that demonstrate leadership in five key categories: ethics and compliance; 
corporate citizenship and responsibility; culture of ethics; governance; and leadership, 
innovation and reputation. Only 135 companies worldwide were honored in 2018.

2020 Women on Boards

Schnitzer has been recognized as a seven-time 2020 Women on Boards Winning “W” Company for 
the years 2011-2017. Winning companies are selected for demonstrating board diversity with 20% 
or more women on their boards of directors. 2020 Women on Boards is a non-profit organization 
committed to increasing the percentage of women who serve on company boards to 20% or 
greater by the year 2020. The organization educates corporate stakeholders on the importance of 
board diversity and promotes companies that exemplify good corporate governance.

Scrap Company of the Year

In 2018, Schnitzer was named Scrap Company of the Year at the American Metal Market’s 
Awards for Steel Excellence event. The award recognized Schnitzer’s industry leadership 
through commitment to safety, operational excellence, continuous improvement, customer 
service and sustainability. Schnitzer also won this award in 2013 and 2011.

ISRI Circle of Safety Membership

Since 2015, our membership in the ISRI Circle of Safety Excellence has served as a 
demonstration of our commitment to continuous improvement and to the safety of 
all of our employees and the communities we serve. 

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  41

GRI Index

GENERAL DISCLOSURES

LOCATION (PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S))

102-1

102-2

102-3

102-4

102-5

102-6

102-7

102-8

Name of the organization

Activities, brands, products, services

Location of headquarters

Location of operations

Ownership and legal form 

Markets served

Scale of the organization

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Overview of Schnitzer, Page 3

Information on employees and other workers

Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness, Page 24

102-13

Membership of associations

Community Engagement and Partnerships, Page 27

STRATEGY

102-14

102-15

Statement from senior decision-maker

CEO message, Page 2; CSO message, Page 13 

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

Materiality, Page 11

ETHICS AND INTEGRITY

102-16

102-17

Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance, Pages 14-17

Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance, Pages 14-17

GOVERNANCE

102-18

102-19

Governance structure

Delegating authority 

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

Sustainability Governance, Page 12

Sustainability Governance, Page 12

102-40

102-43

List of stakeholder groups

Approach to stakeholder engagement

Materiality, Page 11

Materiality, Page 11

42  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

GRI Index

REPORTING PRACTICE

LOCATION (PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S))

102-46

102-47

102-48

102-49

102-50

102-51

102-52

102-53

Defining report content and topic boundaries

About this Report, Page 9

List of material topics

Restatements of information

Changes in reporting

Reporting period

Date of most recent report

Reporting cycle

Contact point for questions regarding the report

Materiality, Page 11

Not applicable

About this Report, Page 9

Fiscal Year 2018, Fiscal Year 2017

Fiscal Year 2016

Annual

Andrew Naporano
Chief Sustainability Officer
anaporano@schn.com

102-54

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards

About this Report, Page 9

102-55

102-56

GRI content index 

External assurance

GRI Index, Page 42-46

Assurance and Disclosure, Page 40

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  43

GRI Index

TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES

LOCATION (PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S))

ECONOMIC TOPICS

ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE

201

201-1

Management approach

In Investor Reports

Direct economic value generated and distributed

In Investor Reports

ANTI-CORRUPTION
205

Management approach

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance, Pages 14-17

205-1

205-2

Operations assessed for risks related to corruption

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance, Pages 14-17

Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance, Pages 14-17

ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
206

Management approach

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance, Pages 14-17

44  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

GRI Index

ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS
ENERGY
302

Management approach

LOCATION (PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S))

Environmental Performance and Protection, Pages 33-39

302-1

302-2

302-3

302-4

EMISSIONS

305

305-1

305-2

305-3

305-4

305-5

Energy consumption within the organization

Increasing Energy Efficiency, Pages 36-37

Energy consumption outside of the organization

Increasing Energy Efficiency, Pages 36-37

Energy intensity

Increasing Energy Efficiency, Pages 36-37

Reduction of energy consumption

Increasing Energy Efficiency, Pages 36-37

Management approach

Environmental Performance and Protection, Pages 34, 36, 37

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

Environmental Performance and Protection, Pages 34, 36, 37

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

Environmental Performance and Protection, Pages 34, 36, 37

Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

Not applicable

GHG emissions intensity

Reduction of GHG emissions

Environmental Performance and Protection, Pages 34, 36, 37

Environmental Performance and Protection, Pages 34, 36, 37

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

307

Management approach

Environmental Performance and Protection, Page 34

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  45

GRI Index

SOCIAL TOPICS

LOCATION (PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S))

OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

403

403-1

403-2

Management approach

Safety, Health, and Wellness, Pages 18-21

Workers representation in formal joint management – 
worker health and safety committees

Employee Wellness, Page 21

Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational, diseases, 
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 
fatalities

Safety, Health, and Wellness, Pages 18-21

DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
405

Management approach

Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness, Pages 22-25

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness, Pages 22-25

NON-DISCRIMINATION
406

Management approach

LOCAL COMMUNITIES
413

Management approach

413-1

Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs

Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness, Pages 22-25

Community Engagement and Partnerships, Pages 26-32

Community Engagement and Partnerships, Pages 26-32

46  |  Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report

We would like to thank all of those who contributed by 
supplying information and images for this publication.

For more information about Schnitzer’s Sustainability 
efforts or to provide feedback, please contact us at: 

sustainability@schn.com

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Fiscal 2017 – Fiscal 2018 Sustainability Report  |  47

 
299 SW Clay Street, Suite 350
Portland, OR 97201 U.S.

