Recycling Today for a 
Sustainable Tomorrow

2019 Sustainability Report

Less Waste. More Resources. 
Cleaner Air.

As one of North America’s largest recyclers 
of metal and a manufacturer of steel from 
100 percent recycled metal, we work every 
day to help ensure a future with less waste, 
more natural resources, and cleaner air. We 
turn the old into new, enable the obsolete  
to become reusable, and, in the process, 
build better communities.

1

Recycling Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow (cont.)

Look at the bridge you cross, 
the road you drive on, and 
the building where you work.

Did you know that most of the steel used in 
today’s infrastructure projects is made from 
recycled metal? We recycle metal into rebar 
that finds new life in the construction of vital 
infrastructure to improve the quality of life for 
our communities and beyond.

Look at your old washing 
machine, an end-of-life vehicle, 
and a demolition project.

Did you know that these are sources of “scrap 
metal” that our recycling business processes  
and sells to steel mills, foundries, smelters, or 
ingot makers around the world?  Our business 
helps extend the life of ferrous metal (which  
contains iron) and non-ferrous metal (which  
does not) indefinitely.

Steel made with scrap metal uses fewer  
resources than steel made with iron ore and coal.

Since 2015, we have  
processed and sold more than

20.9 million

metric tons of ferrous and  
non-ferrous scrap metals

  90% 

less virgin material

40% 

less water

More metal recovery means less 
scrap in landfills and fewer virgin 
materials mined from the earth.

  74% 

less energy

2

Recycling Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow (cont.)

Remember that car you traded  
in years ago?

Our Pick-n-Pull stores make end-of-life vehicles available 
to consumers who find affordable, reusable components —  
think headlamps, transmissions, or steering wheels — to 
use in their vehicles, so they can keep moving and take 
care of the important things in life.

In Fiscal Year 2019:

What we keep out of landfills adds up.

1,702,343

gallons of fuel

597,373tires

9.7 million

pounds of batteries

3

Table of 
Contents

  5  About Schnitzer

CEO	Message
Corporate	Profile
Formalizing	Our	Sustainability	Commitments
Sustainability	Goals	and	Governance
Reporting	Practices
Industry	Engagement

  15  Business Impact

Understanding	and	Measuring	Our	Impact
Auto	Dismantling
Metals	Recycling
Steel	Manufacturing

  21  Operational Impact

Overview
Energy	Efficiency	and	Emissions	Reduction
Responsible	Water	Use
Minimizing	and	Managing	Waste

  27  Workplace Impact

Overview
Integrity,	Ethics,	and	Compliance
Talent	Management
Safety,	Health,	and	Wellness
Diversity,	Inclusion,	and	Cultural	Awareness

5	
6	
9	
10	
13	
14	

16	
18	
19	
20	

22	
23	
25	
26	

28	
29	
32	
33	
37	

 39  Community Impact

40	
41	

Overview
Community	Engagement

 46  Appendix

46	
51	
55	

GRI	Content	Index
SASB	Index
Assurance	Statement

About Schnitzer

Tamara L. Lundgren

Our sustainable business model has  
never been more important than it is 
today. As global trends continue to  
support the growth of lower carbon- 
based economies, the demand for  
metal-based products, especially those 
produced by recycled materials, will 
increase significantly in the years ahead.

Our productivity continues to increase as we invest in advanced 
processing and extraction technologies to increase the amount of 
metals that we recycle and reduce the amount of materials directed 
to landfills. We are also investing in environmental control technol-
ogies and more efficient material handling equipment which will 
enable us to reduce emissions and conserve fuel. Underpinning 
everything we do are our core values of Sustainability, Safety, and 
Integrity which we put into action every day, and I am proud that 
Schnitzer has been recognized as a World’s Most Ethical Company 
by the Ethisphere Institute for the fifth consecutive year.

Despite these achievements, we are continually finding ways to 
do even more to contribute to a sustainable tomorrow. In Fiscal Year 
2019, we raised the bar by establishing a series of sustainability goals 
that will keep us at the forefront of progress by focusing on three 
dimensions of sustainability: People, Planet, and Profit. By putting 
sustainability into action through our daily work, we are striving to 
meet or beat our ambitious goals by the end of Fiscal Year 2025.

In our Fiscal Year 2019 Sustainability Report, we share the many 
ways that Schnitzer makes a positive impact on the world. These 
impacts occur not only through the inherent sustainability of our 
business model, but also through key operational improvements, 
effective investments in our workforce, and meaningful engage-
ment with our communities. On behalf of our Board of Directors and 
our over 3,300 employees, I invite you to read this report to learn 
more about how our recycling efforts today ensure a sustainable 
tomorrow for all of our stakeholders.

Tamara L. Lundgren  
President and CEO

5

Tamara L. Lundgren, President and CEO

Recycling Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow

What sets Schnitzer apart from other businesses is that  
sustainability has been at the core of what we do and how we 
operate since our founding in 1906. By recycling ferrous and 
non-ferrous metal, we divert and reuse millions of tons of  
materials each year that might otherwise be destined for landfills.

At the same time, we are not the company we were a century ago. 
Despite our role as a leading recycler, misperceptions remain  
of scrap yards as places that accumulate junk and of steel mills as 
places that pollute the environment. But this outdated image 
doesn’t capture our modern reality. Today, our manufacturing and 
recycling facilities incorporate state-of-the-art environmental 
and safety controls that keep employees, natural resources, and 
local communities safe. In Fiscal Year 2019, for the first time in our 
long history, our facilities are powered by 90 percent carbon-free 
electricity, and we recapture and reuse approximately 80 percent 
of the water used in our steel manufacturing operation.

Moreover, Schnitzer’s entire business portfolio, including Pick-n-
Pull and Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc., provides a path out of 
the unsustainable “cradle-to-grave” cycle of resource extraction 
and disposal for metals-based consumer and industrial goods 
that are produced, used, and disposed of around the world. Our 
sustainable business model has never been more important than 
it is today. As global trends continue to support the growth of 
lower carbon-based economies, the demand for metal-based 
products, especially those produced by recycled materials, will 
increase significantly in the years ahead. Whether it is driven by 
the demand for electric cars, the deployment of renewable energy 
infrastructure, or the efficiency and convenience of “smart cities,” 
a green economy means a more metal-intensive economy.

CEO MessageAbout Schnitzer
Corporate Profile

Fiscal Year 2019

6

SCHNNASDAQ ticker symbolPortland, Oregonheadquarters1906founded$2.1 billionrevenue>3,300employees97operating facilities96 auto and metals recycling facilities   including 6 shredding facilities1 steel manufacturing facility27 countriesacrosssell to4 continentsSCHNNASDAQ ticker symbolPortland, Oregonheadquarters1906founded$2.1 billionrevenue>3,300employees97operating facilities96 auto and metals recycling facilities   including 6 shredding facilities1 steel manufacturing facility27 countriesacrosssell to4 continentsOur Core Values

SUSTAINABILITY

SAFETY

INTEGRITY

What We Do 

Auto dismantling
Through our Pick-n-Pull brand, we operate an industry-leading chain of 51 self-service used 
auto parts stores providing recovered, affordable auto parts to retail and wholesale customers. 
These stores purchased over 385,000 end-of-life vehicles in Fiscal Year 2019. For over 30 years, 
Pick-n-Pull has offered quality auto parts for a wide variety of makes and models of domestic 
and foreign cars, vans, and light trucks. After vehicle parts are extracted for resale, remaining 
auto bodies are crushed and transported to Schnitzer’s metals recycling facilities, or to other 
metals recycling facilities within North America, to undergo shredding and sorting processes to 
recover the ferrous and non-ferrous metal content of the vehicles.

Metals recycling
As one of North America’s largest recyclers of scrap metal, Schnitzer’s metals recycling facilities 
acquire, process, and recycle ferrous and non-ferrous metal. Our strategically located facilities 
on both the east and west coasts of North America, Puerto Rico, and Hawaii enable efficient 
sourcing and delivery of recycled metals to mills and foundries around the world. Our direct 
access to rail, major highways, and deep-water export terminals creates a competitive 
advantage and allows us to transport our products in a cost-effective and energy-efficient 
manner. Strategic capital investments in facility infrastructure, equipment, and advanced 
metal recovery technologies deliver recycling solutions and provide high-quality, efficient 
scrap metal processing.

Steel manufacturing
Our steel manufacturing business, Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc. (“Cascade Steel”) 
obtains its scrap metal feedstock from our own metals recycling businesses. At our  
state-of-the-art electric arc furnace steel mill, we melt and shape recycled metal into  
rebar, coiled rebar, wire rod, merchant bar, and other specialty products. Cascade Steel 
sells its products to customers primarily located in the western U.S. and Canada from its 
mill in McMinnville, Oregon, and a distribution center in City of Industry, California. Our mill  
has direct access to rail service and close proximity to major highways.

7

Corporate Profile (cont.)Our Business Value

Without metals recycling, many product life cycles, in industries such as construction  
and automotive, take resources from the cradle to the grave. In such cases the product 
life cycle begins with extraction, where virgin ore is mined from the earth. The ore is then 
manufactured into new products, and products are distributed, sold, and put to use.  
At the end of their life cycles, these products are sent to landfills. 

Thanks to companies like Schnitzer, fewer non-renewable resources are needed.  
Salvaged materials stay out of landfills and instead become inputs for new products. 
Each of our businesses contributes to our cradle-to-cradle business model.

Over 40 metals 
recycling facilities

METALS PROCESSING

END OF CURRENT USE

DISTRIBUTION

Over 50 auto parts 
retail outlets

CUSTOMER USE

Global transportation
network with 
7 deep water ports

STEEL MANUFACTURING

A

Company

TM

Our state-of-the-art
electric arc furnace
steel mill 

8

Corporate Profile (cont.)About Schnitzer
Formalizing Our Sustainability Commitments 

Brian Lewallen

Our sustainability strategy is focused  
on empowering our employees to make a  
meaningful difference through their daily 
work. By applying our Sustainability Principles, 
our employees, individually and collectively, 
help us achieve our ambitious and long-term 
sustainability goals.

What considerations influenced the creation of 
Schnitzer’s first sustainability goals? 
From the outset, we knew that the goals had to be aspirational, 
holistic, measurable, and attainable. A Fiscal Year 2025 endpoint 
allows for the opportunity to measure significant performance 
improvement. We also made sure that the goals we set were  
right for our business. They connect to the findings of our 2018 
Sustainability Materiality Assessment, conducted by a third-party 
consultant and through in-depth interviews, which ranked the 
material issues that are most important to the longevity of our 
Company and success of our stakeholders. 

How else is Schnitzer strengthening performance  
and disclosure?
We’re increasing transparency around our sustainable business 
practices. This year, we submitted our first Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) Water Questionnaire, and our third CDP Climate 
Change Questionnaire. These global benchmarks help investors 
and others better understand how our impact compares to other 
major businesses.

And although we’ve only just announced our 2025 sustainability 
goals, we’re already making steady improvements in our environ-
mental performance. In Fiscal Year 2019, we decreased our  
total absolute GHG emissions by 5 percent and total energy con-
sumption by 4 percent from the previous year. Also, for the first time, 
our facilities are powered by 90 percent carbon-free electricity. With 
our goals and principles now in place, I’m excited about even greater 
positive impacts we will continue to make in the years ahead.

Brian Lewallen, Assistant General Counsel, Chief Sustainability Officer

Why is now the right time for Schnitzer to refresh  
its sustainability strategy? 
Our business has always provided a significant societal benefit.  
By recycling scrap metal, we divert and reuse millions of tons  
of materials each year that might otherwise be destined for  
landfills. That scrap becomes new infrastructure, like roads, 
bridges, schools, and cars — all the things that make sustainable 
progress possible. 

While this is the core of what we do, we know there’s an  
opportunity to do even more. That’s why we’re not only setting 
goals to continually improve upon our sustainability performance, 
but also changing how we think and talk about sustainability 
within Schnitzer. 

What are the components of this new strategy? 
First, our strategy is about more than just the environment. It  
is designed to positively impact three important dimensions —  
People, Planet, and Profit. Our strategy includes goals within each 
of these dimensions that Schnitzer aspires to achieve by 2025. 
Finally, our strategy includes a focus on increasing employee 
awareness and engagement. We’ve articulated four Sustainability 
Principles that will help our people put sustainability into action 
through their daily work.

Why is employee engagement so important? 
Every Schnitzer employee has a meaningful impact on our  
sustainability performance, from ensuring we comply with appli-
cable regulations to keeping themselves and others safe at work. 
We want to educate all employees about the important role they 
play, and empower them to help us reach our goals by the end of 
Fiscal Year 2025. 

9

About Schnitzer
Sustainability Goals and Governance

In Fiscal Year 2019, Schnitzer established its first enterprise-wide sustainability goals. In setting these goals, 
we had a few guidelines in mind. First, we wanted goals that were holistic — not focused solely on environmental 
performance. As a result, we’re tracking progress in the areas of People, Planet, and Profit. We also wanted 
goals to be measurable, yet attainable over several years. 

Finally, we wanted the goals to be relevant — aligned with the issues that matter to our stakeholders. The develop-
ment of our goals was guided by our Sustainability Materiality Assessment. We aim to meet or beat our People 
and Planet goals by the end of Fiscal Year 2025, and our Profit goal by the end of Fiscal Year 2021. These goals 
are aligned with Schnitzer’s long-term business success.

People

SAFETY

Achieve a

VOLUNTEERISM

Donate at least

    1.00 

total case incident rate by  
end of Fiscal Year 2025

   10,000 

hours of paid volunteer time off (VTO) for  

employees by the end of Fiscal Year 2025

Planet

Profit

AIR EMISSIONS

CARBON-FREE ELECTRICITY USE

GROWTH

Reduce absolute GHG emissions  
from Auto and Metals Recycling 
(AMR) operations

25% 

 by the end of  
Fiscal Year 2025 

Achieve and maintain at least

90% 

 carbon-free electricity  
use by the end of  
Fiscal Year 2025

Achieve a profitability  

improvement target of 

$15/ton 

 using sustainability-
based initiatives by the 
end of Fiscal Year 2021

10

 
 
 
  
 
 
Sustainability Goals and Governance (cont.)

Sustainability Principles
Improving our sustainability performance requires important contributions from every Schnitzer employee. 
We’re making our core value of Sustainability tangible and actionable for our workforce with a new set of  
Sustainability Principles. These principles connect with the holistic, triple-bottom-line concept of sustainability, 
which includes People, Planet, and Profit. Each Principle has an action statement that helps employees put  
sustainability into action through their daily work. 

Eliminate Waste

Continuous Improvement

Technology & Innovation

Working with Purpose

We create sustainable value 
through safety improvement 
and operational efficiency.

We continuously explore  
and pursue practices  
that promote sustainable 
operations.

We embrace the sustainable 
benefits of technology and 
innovation.

Waste can include wasted 
time and productivity, as well 
as wasted materials sent to 
landfills. We put the Eliminate 
Waste principle into action 
when we:

 ◦ Improve safety 
performance

 ◦ Increase operational 

efficiency

 ◦ Decrease waste  

by-products; send less 
material to landfills

 ◦ Participate in office or 

facility recycling efforts

The journey to becoming a 
more sustainable company 
has no endpoint. We put the 
Continuous Improvement 
principle into action when we:

 ◦ Identify new opportunities 
to reduce air emissions

 ◦ Identify new opportunities 
for storm water reuse or 
recovery, including pro-
cess water recycling

 ◦ Identify opportunities to 
improve scrap quality to 
increase market access 
and market share

 ◦ Develop new processes 

and controls to improve the 
safety of our work 
environment

Sustainable technology  
and innovation protect our 
environment and the commu-
nities where we work and  
live. We put the Technology  
& Innovation principle into 
action when we:

 ◦ Acquire new technologies 
such as advanced metals 
recovery technology 
systems 

 ◦ Construct shredder  

enclosures at metals yards

 ◦ Install thermal oxidizers  
to significantly reduce  
GHG emissions

 ◦ Implement storm water 

treatment facility upgrades 
or installations

We are committed to positively 
impacting our communities 
and supporting a diverse and 
inclusive workplace.

Creating a purposeful work 
environment benefits not  
only our employees, but also 
customers, investors, and 
communities. We put the 
Working With Purpose Principle 
into action when we:

 ◦ Support a work culture 

where everyone is treated 
with respect, fairness, and 
has an equal opportunity 
to reach their full career 
potential 

 ◦ Positively impact our  
communities through  
volunteerism and  
charitable giving

11

Sustainability Goals and Governance (cont.)

Chief 
Sustainability Officer

Division 
Presidents

BOARD OF 

DIRECTORS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER

AUDIT 

COMMITTEE

General 
Counsel

Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer

Sustainability governance

Chief 
Financial Officer

Chief 
Diversity Officer

Chief Human 
Resources Officer

Sustainability is integrated into Schnitzer’s corporate 
governance and organizational structures, allowing us 
to embrace change and innovation, and measure our 
progress across a range of metrics. 

Our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) reports directly to the CEO 
and provides updates to our Board of Directors, which oversees 
our sustainability strategy and execution. The CSO analyzes, builds 
consensus for, and manages sustainability-related initiatives, 
projects, and goals that are supported by executive-level leader-
ship and are visible throughout the organization. 

Schnitzer also has a Sustainability Leadership Group that  
collaborates on the development and deployment of sustainable 
and socially responsible business practices. This cross-functional 
team engages leadership across business units, geographic 
regions, and job functions. The group seeks to mobilize our  
workforce to, for example, apply environmental considerations  
to equipment procurement decisions and planned operational 
changes, support our culture of ethical behavior, and lead other 
stakeholder engagement events such as Earth Day activities.

FINANCE

HUMAN 
RESOURCES

ENVIRON-
MENTAL

SAFETY

INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY

OPERATIONS 
AND 
COMMERCIAL

ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE

PURCHASING

LEGAL

PUBLIC 
RELATIONS

Sustainability governance at Schnitzer

BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER

AUDIT 
COMMITTEE

Chief 
Sustainability Officer

Division 
Presidents

General 
Counsel

Chief Ethics & 
Compliance Officer

Chief 
Financial Officer

Chief 
Diversity Officer

Chief Human 
Resources Officer

12
FINANCE

HUMAN 
RESOURCES

ENVIRON-

MENTAL

SAFETY

INFORMATION 

TECHNOLOGY

OPERATIONS 

AND 

COMMERCIAL

ETHICS AND 

COMPLIANCE

PURCHASING

LEGAL

PUBLIC 

RELATIONS

Sustainability Leadership GroupSustainability Leadership GroupAbout Schnitzer
Reporting Practices

Schnitzer is committed to transparent and timely disclosure of its environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
impacts and policies. 

In 2018, we conducted a Sustainability Materiality Assessment 
(SMA) to identify, analyze, and act on environmental, social,  
and economic dimensions that may have significant impacts on 
Schnitzer and its stakeholders. Our key stakeholder groups include 
current and future employees, shareholders, regulators, local com-
munities, customers, suppliers, and relevant non-profit associa-
tions. Combining surveys, meetings, a review of publicly available 
information regarding our industry sector, and internal stakeholder 
interviews, we assessed the importance to Schnitzer and impor-
tance to stakeholders of various sustainability-related issues. 

Results were averaged and plotted to identify the relative  
importance of each issue. The insights gained from our SMA help 
guide our sustainability strategy and communications, including 
this Sustainability Report, and our sustainability goals.

Our top issues are:

 ◦ Diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity

 ◦ Occupational health and safety

 ◦ Economic performance

 ◦ Anti-corruption

 ◦ Supporting and engaging local communities

 ◦ Environmental compliance

 ◦ Career development and job security

 ◦ Compliance with competition laws

 ◦ Energy consumption and reduction

About this report
This is Schnitzer’s sixth Sustainability Report, covering Fiscal 
Year 2019, which ended August 31, 2019. It includes relevant 
updates and metrics within our two operating and reportable 
segments: the Auto and Metals Recycling (AMR) and the Cascade 
Steel and Scrap (CSS) businesses.

Since 2014, we have engaged Trucost (part of S&P Global) to  
provide assurance of selected environmental data, including 
greenhouse gas emissions, water withdrawal, and waste  
generated. Trucost undertook this assurance in accordance  
with AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 moderate-level assurance.

Circumstances may arise in which restatement of data from  
previous sustainability reports is appropriate. For example, this 
may be due to, among other things, reconciliation of source data, 
updates in conversion factors, internal methodology changes,  
or changes in overall reporting scope. Restatements promote the 
transparency of our reporting and enable a more accurate 
assessment of Schnitzer’s progress on its key performance 
indicators. Even though the restatements do not significantly 
impact our historic sustainability performance, by retrospectively 
updating previous figures, we expect that our year-over-year  
data will remain more consistent over time. Throughout our 
report, any restatements of previous-year data will be noted.

Other non-financial disclosures
As a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) over  
the past three years, Schnitzer is committed to voluntary  
disclosures of relevant climate change and water security- 
related information on our governance, risks and opportunities, 
business strategy, targets and performance, GHG emissions, 
energy use, water consumption, and stakeholder engagement.

As of 2019, Schnitzer Steel Industries received an MSCI ESG Rating of 
AA, putting us in the top 10 percent within our industry. The evaluation 
noted Schnitzer’s less carbon-intensive business lines relative to 
peers, carbon intensity 96% lower than industry average, low toxic 
emissions and waste intensities, and less water-intensive operations 
relative to peers, as well as our representation of women on our Board 
of Directors. And highest overall ESG rating among our industry peers.

Additionally, in 2019, Schnitzer began reporting on relevant  
disclosures of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) framework for our Primary SICS Sector (Extractives  
& Minerals Processing) and Primary SICS Industry (Iron &  
Steel Producers). 

13

SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

About Schnitzer
Industry Engagement 

We are an active member of a number of organizations and associations for the recycling and steel  
manufacturing industries. Schnitzer holds leadership roles in several of these organizations. 

Our involvement allows us to learn and share best practices with 
our peers, as well as develop and shape commonsense policies 
that protect the environment while promoting sustainable busi-
ness models. Our Director of Governmental and Public Affairs 
currently serves as national secretary and treasurer of the  
Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI), and other leaders 
hold positions in local chapters. In the Southeast, Schnitzer is 
involved with the Georgia Recyclers Association, the Alabama 
Recyclers Association, and automotive manufacturers associa-
tions in Georgia and Alabama. We are proud to serve in leadership 
roles, or maintain general membership and representation, with:  

 ◦ American Wire Producers Association (AWPA)

 ◦ Automotive Recyclers Association (ARA)

 ◦ Bureau of International Recycling (BIR)

 ◦ Business Roundtable (BR)

 ◦ Columbia Corridor Association (CCA)

 ◦ Concrete Reinforcing Steel Institute (CRSI)

 ◦ Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries (ISRI)

 ◦ National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)

 ◦ Steel Manufacturers Association (SMA)

 ◦ U.S. Chamber of Commerce

Clarifying our commitment

In 2019, CEO Tamara Lundgren signed Business Roundtable’s 
updated Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation. The 
statement declares that a business’s key stakeholders include 
not only shareholders and customers, but also employees, 
suppliers, and communities. This report describes how 
Schnitzer fulfills our principle of Working with Purpose and 
upholding our commitments to each of these stakeholders.

14

Business  
Impact

(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:27)(cid:31)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:24)

15

Understanding and Measuring Our Impact

The business of sustainability
As most people know, our world has a waste problem. Hundreds of millions of tons of used metal products are added 
to landfills each year, all while the world continues to mine and drill for virgin materials to make new products. 

Most people also understand the solution: limit the extraction  
of more natural resources by consuming less, and recycle and 
reuse the materials we already have. 

What many people don’t see is what happens in between. How  
do obsolete materials from one activity become new inputs for 
another? How does an object get broken down into its component 
parts so they can be made new again? How can we disrupt the 
path from extraction to disposal?

Schnitzer knows. For more than 110 years, where others have seen 
a pile of scrap materials, we see potential and opportunity. Our pri-
mary traded material is recycled steel, the most recycled product 
on earth. Once manufactured from iron ore, steel can be recycled 
endlessly, so that the body of your car could one day become the 
beam of a bridge spanning your town. Precise chemical and physi-
cal processes make this continuous transformation possible. And 
our integrated operating platform, which includes auto dismantling, 
metals recycling, and steel manufacturing using recycled scrap 
steel, is performing these processes ever more efficiently, ensuring 
that more materials stay out of landfills and more resources stay 
in the ground. 

Environmental impact 
Recycling steel offers many environmental benefits compared 
with the use of virgin iron ore in steel manufacturing. Beyond its 
fundamental role in keeping materials out of landfills, recycling 

scrap is more energy-, emissions-, and water-efficient. As new 
construction and infrastructure projects are launched around the 
world, demand for steel is always there. It’s likely to remain strong 
as the world transitions to a low-carbon economy, with steel and 
other metals important components to wind turbines, energy- 
efficient buildings, and more. Recycled steel can meet much of  
that demand. 

Business impact
As one of North America’s largest recyclers of scrap metal and 
dismantlers of end-of-life vehicles, and a manufacturer of 
finished steel products from recycled steel, Schnitzer’s business 
impact is far-reaching and interconnected to daily life. Our  
strategically located facilities on both the east and west coasts 
of North America enable efficient sourcing and delivery of  
recycled metals to mills and foundries around the world for use  
in new metal product manufacturing. Through our Pick-n-Pull 
brand, we operate an industry-leading chain of self-service  
used auto parts stores providing recovered, affordable auto parts 
to our valued customers. Through Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc., 
we provide the Western U.S. and Canada with high-quality steel 
products produced from recycled scrap metal at our state-of-the-
art electric arc furnace steel mill. Our products include rebar, coiled 
rebar, wire rod, merchant bar, and other specialty products.

16

Business ImpactUnderstanding and Measuring Our Impact (cont.)

Economic impact 
With operations in 24 states and over 100 communities across the U.S., Puerto Rico, and western Canada, 
Schnitzer also plays a prominent role as a job creator, economic leader, and environmental steward. In Fiscal  
Year 2019, our direct and indirect contributions included: 

17

FY16FY15FY17FY18FY19Finished Steel Products ProducedThousand short tons4885404965194783.33.73.64.34.3FY16FY15FY17FY18FY19Ferrous Scrap SoldMillion long tonsFY16FY15FY17FY18FY19Non-ferrous Scrap SoldMillions of pounds510585585636667FY16FY15FY17FY18FY19End-of-Life Vehicles PurchasedThousands319337411424386$439 millionin taxes generated$3.73 billiontotal economic impact (based on ISRIeconomic impact studies and Fiscal Year 2019 scrap production volumes)$1.14 billionin wages earned18,068U.S. jobs supportedSUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Auto Dismantling 

Finding a purpose for every part 
Schnitzer’s Pick-n-Pull business embodies the idea that end-of-life vehicles are nothing more than resources 
out of place. 

Our self-service auto parts stores receive end-of-life vehicles 
from many different sources, including tow companies, private 
owners, auto auctions, city contracts, and charities. Some of 
these cars can be found in streets, yards, fields, and even bodies 
of water, causing concerns for the environment and public safety 
in local communities. Pick-n-Pull provides an effective solution 
to this problem and, at the same time, offers affordable car 
parts for those who need them. Beyond the significant cost  
savings, choosing used parts over new conserves natural 
resources, energy, and space in landfills.

These auto dismantling facilities recycle everything they possibly 
can. When a vehicle first enters one of our lots, we begin by 
removing and recycling fluids and hazardous materials such  
as lubricating oils, hydraulic fluids, gasoline and diesel fuels, 
coolants and washer fluids, and refrigerants. Some refrigerants 
recovered from many of the older vehicles we receive may  
possess ozone-depleting properties. Ensuring safe recovery  

and processing of these materials prevents harmful substances 
from entering the atmosphere and allows our recovery partners to 
generate valuable carbon credits. Beyond fluids and refrigerants, 
our removal process also includes batteries, which are tested and 
resold or recycled depending on their condition. We also remove 
mercury switches used in the engine compartment and trunk to 
prevent the release of toxic chemicals.

Next, the car is transferred to our sales yard, where customers can 
remove the parts they need as a sustainable and cost-effective 
alternative to purchasing new parts. Once most or all usable parts 
have been removed, we conduct a final check for parts that can be 
refurbished, such as transmissions, alternators, and compressors, 
and remove and sell these for remanufacturing. Finally, the vehicle 
is crushed and sent to metal shredders, including Schnitzer-
owned facilities, where the next phase of recycling begins. 

18

Business Impact1,702,343gallons of fuel 252,052gallons of coolant9,654,673pounds of batteries12,084,020pounds of tires1,347,729gallons of oil112,504pounds of refrigerantsMaterials Recovered from End-of-Life Vehicles in Fiscal Year 2019SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Metals Recycling

Using sustainable innovation to extract value 
An essential part of the metals recycling process happens between the collection of scrap and its transformation 
into new products. Metals must be sorted, broken down into appropriate sizes for melting, and compacted for 
delivery to customers. 

sources of scrap, come equipped with more electronic and plastic 
components, the importance of leveraging sustainable innovation 
will only grow. 

After we have extracted and diverted as much metal as possible 
from shredded material, what remains is automotive shredder 
residue (ASR), a combination of plastic, foam, wood, rubber, glass, 
and more. Even here, there is potential to create sustainable 
value. Much of the ASR from our operations is beneficially 
reused as alternative daily cover by municipal solid waste land-
fills. Learn more here. 

Schnitzer’s recycling yards and shredding facilities perform this 
fundamental role. Our principal priority is to identify customers 
for the metal we process — and thereby enable these materials  
to be reused. Precise sortation technology is key to achieving 
this goal.

Schnitzer’s recycling facilities collect both ferrous metals and 
non-ferrous metals. Ferrous metal makes up the majority of the 
scrap we receive. We process these metals by shearing, torching, 
baling, and ultimately sending them through shredders, which 
break down materials more efficiently than manual processing 
and yield an end product that is denser and more suitable for use 
by steel mills.

Non-ferrous metals include stainless steel, aluminum, copper, 
brass, and zinc, which can also be recycled into new products.  
In the past, we sold mixed packages of these materials, which  
we exported for further sortation. Today, as customers demand 
more defined packages of metals, Schnitzer is adding enhanced 
separation capabilities to our non-ferrous metal recovery plants, 
also referred to as joint product plants (JPP). These new capabilities 
allow us to increase the quality and purity of our product mix, 
extract a greater volume of non-ferrous material to sell, and reduce 
the material that we dispose. And, because these higher-quality 
products can be sold directly to smelters, we eliminate a processing 
and transportation step and those associated emissions.

The separation technologies we employ include magnets, eddy 
currents, air jets, and electronic and near-infrared sensors that 
sort and identify materials down to just a few millimeters in size. 
The individual materials may be small, but they add up to signifi-
cant savings. For example, several years ago we upgraded our 
JPPs to better recover insulated copper wire from the mixed 

From 2012 to 2019, 

16 million

 pounds of wire kept  
out of landfills

non-metallic and non-ferrous 
material generated by the 
metal shredding process, 
greatly decreasing the amount 
we send to landfills. 

 Installed technology upgrades allow us to extract approximately

188,000 pounds

  of additional insulated copper wire  
per month

Now, Schnitzer is exploring a 
state-of-the-art gravity sepa-
ration process that would sort materials even more finely, expanding 
our landfill-diversion capabilities even further, and creating a higher- 
quality product for our customers. As automobiles, one of our main 

19

Business Impact 
 
SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Steel Manufacturing 

Where old becomes new 
The final stage in Schnitzer’s internal recycling process is the manufacturing of new steel products, which takes 
place at Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc. in McMinnville, Oregon. 

Certain processes involved in steelmaking have been used for  
generations. Today, 21st-century advancements in technology 
make this process safer, more streamlined, and more energy 
efficient than ever before. 

Our state-of-the-art electric arc furnace (EAF) and ladle refining 
furnace technologies use carbon-free electric power to melt scrap, 
operating with lower emissions than conventional basic oxygen 
furnaces. What’s more, they are designed to remanufacture steel 
from scrap metal rather than virgin ore, which contributes to sub-
stantial savings of energy, air emissions, and natural resources. 

We are continually refining the technologies that support our  
EAF, including supersonic burners, off-gas recovery systems, 
and software systems that allow us to manage heat more  
effectively and efficiently. Cascade Steel also finds sustainable 
uses for the by-products of our steelmaking process, such as 
EAF dust and slag, which may be sold for reprocessing and other 
industrial applications. 

When our steel products, including straight and coiled reinforcing 
bar, are shaped, cooled, and ready for sale, they are transported 
and used in responsible ways. Our mill has direct access to rail 
service and deep draft terminals in Portland, Oregon, that provide 
lower-emission modes of transport than road vehicles. Because 
our steel products are made from recycled materials that are 
often sourced within less than 50 miles of our facility, they can  
be used in construction projects seeking to earn environmental 
certifications, such as LEED. In these cases, it’s not only the inputs 
of our steel manufacturing process that are sustainable — the  
outputs are, too. 

20

Learn more about renewable  
energy use at our steel mill

Recycling 1 ton of steel conserves:

1,400 

pounds of coal

120 

   pounds of  
limestone 

2,500 

 pounds  
of iron ore

Business Impact 
 
Operational  
Impact

21

Overview

Schnitzer’s business contributes to sustainability with a “cradle-to-cradle” approach. Our process helps keep 
metal products in circulation, giving these products a new useful life, and prevents additional raw materials from 
being mined to make new products. 

We also make an important contribution by reducing the  
environmental impact of our own operations — the processes  
that transform cars, appliances, and other metal products into 
scrap, and transform that scrap into finished steel products  
for new construction and manufacturing. 

Over the past several years, Schnitzer has implemented several  
operational improvement projects to meet or exceed regulatory 
requirements throughout our enterprise. But as we know, the 
journey to becoming a more sustainable company has no end 
point. Our Sustainable Principle of “Continuous Improvement” 
drives us to continuously explore and pursue practices that  
promote sustainable operations.

We are now in the process of adding state-of-the-art emission 
control technologies to our shredder facilities throughout the 
United States. These technologies will significantly reduce  
greenhouse gas emissions and better protect the air quality  
in the communities where we work and live. 

22

Operational ImpactSUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction 

Schnitzer is continuously focused on ways to improve our energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHG), beginning with reliance on energy sources that significantly minimize our carbon footprint. 

Abundant, clean, and carbon-free energy in our major operating 
locations reduces the emissions impact of our energy-intensive 
industrial processes. For example, approximately 68 percent  
of the energy we use is attributed to our steel manufacturing 
operation. Our mill’s location in McMinnville, Oregon enables us to 
consume electricity largely sourced from carbon-free hydroelec-
tric power generated by the Columbia River Dam System. Like-
wise, a significant portion of our metals recycling business 
operates in the Pacific Northwest, which is also largely powered  
by hydroelectric and other carbon-free energy sources. 

In Fiscal Year 2019, Schnitzer, for the first time, increased its  
carbon-free electricity power mix to 90 percent. We enrolled in  
the Portland General Electric’s Clean Wind and Green Source  
programs and San Jose Clean Energy’s TotalGreen service, and 
remain enrolled in similar services with several other Community 
Choice Aggregators in California. 

A continuously improving  
equipment fleet
We also reduce our energy use by regularly maintaining and 
upgrading our mobile and fixed equipment, seeking replacements 
that offer improved fuel efficiencies. Roughly 21 percent of the 
energy we consume is fuel used for on-road transportation vehicles, 
off-road rolling stock, and metalworking equipment. In Fiscal Year 
2019, we established a four-year program to replace high-run-
hour pieces of front-line equipment, such as material handlers, 
loaders, hold trucks, and excavators. Schnitzer estimates that we 
will invest approximately $48 million between Fiscal Years 2019 
and 2022 to upgrade hundreds of pieces of equipment to more 
fuel-efficient models. 

As we replace and retool equipment, we ensure compliance with 
emissions regulations in each of our markets. For example, in  
California, we purchase EPA-certified Tier IV engines, which offer 
lower particulate emissions and smog-related emissions, for 
equipment to support our Oakland, California, shredder, as well 
as auto and metals recycling yards and Pick-n-Pull facilities in the 
region. We have also succeeded in converting all car crushers at 
Pick-n-Pull stores in California from diesel engines to electric 
models, and are working to make similar changes to car crushers 
elsewhere across the country. Currently, 58 percent of all our car 
crushers are electric. 

1  FY15-FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled Total Energy Consumption.
2  FY15-FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled Total Scope 1 Emissions.
3  FY15-FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled Scope 2 (Location and Market –
based) Emissions.

4  This graph shows normalized values against the sum of metric tons of finished steel sold, ferrous 
scrap shipped, and non-ferrous scrap shipped.

23

Operational ImpactEnergy Consumption1,4(GJ)FY16FY15FY17FY18FY1971,83256,82448,45864,82649,23343,62470,73149,11743,78853,65647,31646,48875,37948,65579,820Scope 1 Emissions2,4(MTCO2E)Natural Gas CombustionFuel CombustionProcess0.0390.0390.0370.0350.034FY16FY15FY17FY18FY1955,36555,34347,89347,87149,94349,91956,08154,74854,30848,951Scope 2 Emissions3,4(MTCO2E)Market-basedLocation-basedNormalized against Location-based0.0120.0120.0110.0110.011Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction (cont.)

Reducing emissions across  
our value chain 

Schnitzer has begun working with major retailers who  
supply scrap, such as used household appliances, to  
our metal yards to minimize the emissions associated  
with their transportation logistics. Before working  
with Schnitzer, one of our trade suppliers lacked a way  
to densify its shipments, meaning that it frequently  
delivered less-than-full truckloads of scrap material. 
Now, Schnitzer is working with the retailer on a pilot  
project to loan portable balers and compactor trucks  
to the supplier’s facilities, allowing for fewer and fuller 
truckloads — and less fuel required in transit. 

Air quality compliance 
Beyond GHG emissions, in Fiscal Year 2019 Schnitzer began  
a multi-year project to install enclosures and emission control 
systems on our shredders to improve air quality in the communities 
surrounding our shredders. Schnitzer has been working to 
install such emission control systems at its facilities in Everett, 
Massachusetts, and Oakland, California, for several years. 
Schnitzer’s next step will be to upgrade the Oakland emission  
control system and to complete design and installation of similar 
emission control systems at other shredding facilities. Some of 
these new projects will include installation of thermal oxidizers to 
treat volatile organic compounds (VOCs). VOC treatment protects 
air quality by both reducing the potential for ozone formation and 
significantly decreasing GHG emissions. Schnitzer has taken a 
leadership position within the metal shredding industry by properly 
quantifying air emissions associated with shredding operations 
and taking appropriate steps to reduce such emissions.  

Schnitzer is also helping to prevent dirt, dust, and debris from 
impacting local air and water quality by washing and capturing the 
material off trucks that pass through our metals recycling yards. 
Custom wheel wash systems remove dirt and dust from trucks’ 
wheels upon exit from our shredding facilities in Oakland and 
Tacoma, thus reducing the volume of fine particles tracked onto 
surrounding roadways. We have also invested in paving projects 
on unimproved surfaces at some locations to further minimize 
“track-out” potential while also aiding in storm water management. 

Schnitzer estimates that it will invest approximately 

  $48 million

 to upgrade our equipment,  
to more fuel-efficient models. 
(FY2019-FY2022)

24

Emissions Mix34% Scope 1 (Process)21% Scope 1 (Fuel)21% Scope 1 (Natural Gas)24% Scope 2 (Location)Power Mix1 10% Fossil Fuels 10% Nuclear 75% Hydro 4% Renewables <1% Other1May not add to 100 percent due to roundingEnergy Mix21% Fuel32% Natural Gas47% Electricity 
SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Responsible Water Use

Water is an essential resource for Schnitzer, particularly in our steelmaking operations. As red-hot metal leaves 
our electric arc furnace, it is cast into billets and eventually rolled into reinforcing bar and other products. 
Throughout this process, water is applied to safely cool the product down. Thanks to a state-of-the-art water 
recycling system, the process water that is not evaporated is retained, recirculated, and reused up to five times.   

Within our metal shredding operations, we use water to cool 
shredding equipment, as well as to reduce air emissions and 
suppress dust. These operations require approximately  
14 gallons of water per metric ton of ferrous scrap produced.  
Our metal collection depots and Pick-n-Pull facilities,  
meanwhile, use minimal amounts of water, mainly for dust  
suppression, landscaping irrigation, and sanitation. 

While water availability directly linked to the location of our  
operations is not a material risk at this time, in the context of climate 
change and extreme weather events, we are taking steps to 
assess our potential future water management risks and monitor 
our current water management performance. In Fiscal Year 2019, 
Schnitzer conducted a water risk mapping exercise using the 
World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct Global Water Tool  
for all active operating facilities.  

We annually deploy capital to improve our overall water  
management and conservation capabilities. As air quality  
pollutant controls evolve, our water usage requirements may 
increase, making ongoing efficiency improvements even more 
important. Our water strategy focuses on maximizing direct  
use of recycled water, reducing direct use of freshwater, and 
decreasing the amount of water we withdraw. Recent enhance-
ments include the introduction of smart water and foam systems 
that reduce water waste during shredding operations and the 
collection of rainwater for supplemental use. 

Managing storm water runoff 
As we work to minimize water that we bring into our operations, 
we are also keenly focused on the environmental impact of water 
that leaves our facilities. When it rains, water comes into contact 
with the vehicles and scrap that have been delivered to our yards. 
Over the past five years, we have invested $97 million in environ-
mental controls that help us to better capture and remove pollutants 
from storm water, and in controls for pollutants to air, soil, and within 
streams, before they are discharged off site.  

In 2019, we began design of upgraded storm water treatment  
systems at eight Pick-n-Pull facilities in California, with capabilities 
that are expected to meet or exceed regulatory compliance require-
ments. Each treatment system is unique to the site, depending on 
its geography, property size, and surface types present, using a 
combination of technologies — from electrocoagulation, chemical 
treatment, media (rock, sand, and carbon) filtration, and expanded 
retention capacity. We expect to extend these upgrades to other 
auto and metals facilities in the coming years.

1  This graph shows normalized values against the sum of metric tons of finished steel sold, ferrous 
scrap shipped, and non-ferrous scrap shipped.
2  FY15-FY18 values represent restatements to adjust for reconciled  water withdrawal volumes.

25

Operational ImpactFY162FY152FY172FY182FY19Total Water Withdrawal1(Metric Ton)0.2870.2880.2490.2080.2291,151,8801,304,0371,096,6611,065,4851,175,427Total Water Withdrawal (m3)SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Minimizing and Managing Waste

Keeping materials out of landfills is a critical benefit of Schnitzer’s business model, and we aim to achieve the 
highest beneficial use of all by-products generated by our operations. 

For example, a by-product of the metal shredding process is a 
non-metallic material known as automotive shredder residue 
(ASR). ASR is a mixture of materials such as seat cushions,  
insulation, rubber, glass, foam, and plastics. When possible, we 
send ASR for beneficial reuse as alternative daily cover (ADC) for 
landfills. ADC is applied at the end of each day to the active  
portion of landfills to protect wildlife, minimize dust, deter pests, 
control odors, and isolate wastes. As many landfills traditionally 
use topsoil as daily cover, using ASR effectively conserves topsoil 
and prevents the environmental impacts associated with topsoil 
mining. ASR is also more compactable than soil, which means that 
its use conserves landfill space. In Fiscal Year 2019, 94 percent of 
ASR generated by our operations was beneficially used as ADC. 

At the same time, we are reducing the amount of ASR we generate 
through innovations in our joint product plants—Learn more here. 
New sustainable technologies allow us to extract additional  
components from non-ferrous raw material, increasing the value 
we capture and decreasing process waste volumes. 

Working greener

Schnitzer’s headquarters were certified at the Gold 
level in 2019 by the City of Portland’s Sustainability at 
Work initiative. To earn certification, businesses must 
complete a set number of environmentally friendly 
actions, such as providing employee education on 
proper recycling practices, composting food scraps, 
and incentivizing employees to choose low-carbon 
commuting options. This 
award is not an endpoint, 
but rather a step in the 
right direction. We will 
work to maintain this  
designation in the years  
to come.  

1  This graph shows normalized values against the sum of 
metric tons of finished steel sold, ferrous scrap shipped, 
and non-ferrous scrap shipped.

26

Operational ImpactFY16470,021FY15528,573FY17551,816FY18659,996FY19663,317Process Waste Generated for Beneficial Reuse1(Metric Ton)0.1170.1170.1250.1290.129Workplace  
Impact

27

Overview

While our technology and processes account for much of Schnitzer’s success, these assets do not define our 
leadership. What sets us apart from other companies is not what we do, but how we do it — how we conduct 
ourselves in our daily work, and how we treat our people. 

We have an uncompromising culture of safe, inclusive, and ethical 
behavior that informs every decision we make, from how front-line 
employees confront workplace hazards, to how we engage with 
customers, suppliers, contractors, and investors. 

Our employees are our most important assets. We are creating a 
workplace of choice by building a diverse and inclusive workforce, 
and investing in our employees for the long-term. Focusing on  
our people has been the foundation of Schnitzer’s success for the 
past 110 years, and we are confident that it will remain the key to 
leading our industry well into the future. 

28

Workplace ImpactIntegrity, Ethics, and Compliance

SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Integrity is more than a priority at Schnitzer — it is one of our Core Values. Working with integrity compels us to 
do the right thing even when no one is watching, or when it would be more convenient or advantageous to take 
another approach. 

Our Core Value of Integrity underscores our commitment to  
operating from an ethics-based approach, which is why our  
program goes beyond ensuring compliance with the law to  
establishing and maintaining the framework for how we treat  
one another and all our stakeholders. 

which reinforces our commitment to upholding the internationally 
recognized human rights as set forth in the United Nations’ 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International 
Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles  
and Rights at Work. 

Maintaining a positive workplace and conducting business 
according to our Core Values requires a common set of ethical 
rules, which we present in our Code of Conduct. We also have  
a Supplier Code of Conduct to guide our relationships with those 
in our supply chain. Our Codes drive our culture of compliance, 
ethical decision-making, and accountability. 

Our focus on Integrity extends to respect for human rights. As a 
business that engages in commercial transactions throughout the 
world, we have a responsibility to respect human rights everywhere 
we operate. In 2019, we published our first Human Rights Policy, 

Independent Ethics and  
Compliance function
Schnitzer has an independent Ethics and Compliance function, led 
by our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, who reports to the CEO 
and also to the Board of Directors through its Audit Committee. 
This structure allows for both the independence necessary to be 
a trusted resource for employees and the integration within the 
Company to ensure effective communication and coordination 
with the business. 

29

Workplace ImpactIntegrity, Ethics, and Compliance (cont.)

Ethics program 
Schnitzer’s Corporate Ethics and Compliance Program functions 
to promote the Code of Conduct, communicating and educating 
employees on the importance of making ethical decisions, and 
fostering an environment where employees feel free to report 
concerns.

Schnitzer employees participate in annual training on our Company’s 
Core Values, which includes instruction on our Code of Conduct and 
ethical behavior. For the first time, in Fiscal Year 2019, 100 percent 
of employees, both union and non-union, participated in this 
training. The training for managers also includes deep dives on 
important topics such as reporting misconduct, our prohibition 
against retaliation, diversity and inclusion, and unconscious bias. 

100% 

of employees trained  
on Code of Conduct

Schnitzer’s employee community is rich in diversity, full of talented 
people with varied backgrounds and experiences, many of whom 
speak multiple languages. An ongoing emphasis of our Ethics and 
Compliance Program is ensuring that communications are inclu-
sive and accessible to all. To this end, we make training content 
available in both English and Spanish, offer it in both written and 
audio formats, and produce communications such as posters and 
flyers to convey bilingual messages clearly.

We empower employees to raise issues and concerns regarding 
compliance with our Code of Conduct and the law by offering  
multiple reporting channels, including a third-party, confidential, 
multilingual hotline. No matter how employees choose to report 
concerns, we ensure all reports are investigated, tracked,  
and finalized. 

100% 

of misconduct reports investigated

Anticorruption program
An essential part of operating ethically is ensuring that we follow 
anticorruption and antibribery laws and regulations. We scrutinize 
all business units for corruption risks and constantly evolve our 
program to address those risks. In addition to our Code of Conduct, 
we have a comprehensive Anticorruption Policy available to all 
employees that details prohibitions against bribery, money  
laundering, and engaging with terrorists or other sanctioned 
entities. The policy prohibits facilitation payments and also 
requires Schnitzer to maintain accurate books and records.

Our Anticorruption Manual, Anticorruption Controls, and other  
reference guides help employees understand these prohibitions 
and requirements and, for those whose job functions are critical  
to our Anticorruption Program, specifies roles and responsibilities 
in order to create accountability. Our International Anticorruption 
Council, chaired by the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and 
comprised of senior leaders in operations, finance, legal, sales, 
procurement, and audit, monitors the execution of Schnitzer’s 
Anticorruption Program and promotes it within the organization.

Essential elements of the Schnitzer Anticorruption Program are:

 ◦ Accurate and transparent books and records

 ◦ Robust third-party monitoring, including due diligence  

and auditing

 ◦ International contract administration

 ◦ Anticorruption internal controls

 ◦ Wire transfer controls and payment monitoring

 ◦ Designated party screening 

100% 

of worldwide commercial  
representatives are vetted  
and audited for corruption risk

30

Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance (cont.)

Global recognition
2019 was the fifth consecutive year in which Schnitzer was named 
one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere 
Institute. This prestigious award is given to companies that foster 
a culture of ethics and transparency at every level of the company. 
Specifically, winners must demonstrate leadership in five key 
categories: ethics and compliance; corporate citizenship and 
responsibility; culture of ethics; governance; and leadership, 
innovation, and reputation.

Sustainability, and its integration into all aspects of business, is 
emerging as a baseline condition for receipt of this award. Schnitzer 
is proud to continually raise the bar in all aspects of our business 
to rank among the World’s Most Ethical Companies, and to remain 
a leader in the corporate ethics community.

Tamara Lundgren,  
CEO

More than a continued acknowledgment 
of Schnitzer’s ethical standards and 
responsible business practices, the 
2019 World’s Most Ethical Companies 
distinction recognizes our employees’ 
commitment to acting ethically, safely, 
and sustainably every day.

Ethics in Action award
Behaving ethically requires courage and a commitment to doing 
what’s right. Schnitzer’s Ethics in Action award program recognizes 
employees who demonstrate ethics in their daily work. These 
actions need not be anything heroic; recent honorees include a 
Pick-n-Pull employee who makes sure that his colleagues wear 
their personal protective equipment correctly, and a Melt Shop 
Operations Foreman at Cascade Steel whose respectful approach 
has earned him the loyalty of his team. Employees can nominate 
their colleagues year-round using an online portal. Those who win 
earn a celebration for their facility. 

5 years in a row 
World's Most Ethical Companies 
Ethisphere Institute

31

SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Talent Management 

For more than a century, our employees have made Schnitzer’s success possible, and we are building upon  
this foundation to ensure this continues for years to come. To do so, we must create a workplace where people 
want to stay and grow, which we do through, among 
other things, career development opportunities and 
competitive benefits packages.

Employee development 
Schnitzer continually looks for opportunities to develop its 
employees. For example, we offer apprenticeship programs for 
key skill areas such as welders and electricians, partnering with 
local state and community colleges to deliver an accredited pro-
gram that blends classroom curriculum with on-site job experi-
ence. Employees spend eight hours on classroom coursework, 
followed by four hours of on-site training. We also offer tuition 
reimbursement for eligible employees interested in furthering 
their education independently. 

Through our talent management portal, employees may partner 
with their managers in setting annual goals and professional 
development plans. As part of the annual performance review 
cycle, our employees assess their performance against the goals 
and plans established for the performance period, which provides 
a structured way for managers to assess performance, provide 
feedback, and prompt ongoing discussions around performance 
and career progression. 

New benefits 
We continue to expand benefits we offer to employees. Recent 
additions include a new high-deductible health savings account 
that helps incentivize employees to stay healthy and invest 
money that can be used, tax-free, on eligible medical expenses. 
To support employees during all stages of life, including when 
they are welcoming new children into their families, we updated our 
policies regarding parental leave and adoption support. Schnitzer 
now provides up to four weeks of paid parental leave to care for a 
newborn, a newly adopted child, or a newly placed foster child. 
We also offer an adoption assistance program through which 
employees may be reimbursed for adoption expenses such as 
agency fees, legal expenses, and other costs. More details about 
employee benefits can be found on our careers website.

32

PTO Donation Program

Schnitzer offers a Paid Time Off (PTO) donation pro-
gram through which Schnitzer employees make unused 
PTO available for other employees’ use. This valuable 
benefit can make a difference in the lives of employees 
and families facing issues such as serious illness.

Workplace ImpactSUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Safety, Health, and Wellness

Without a foundation of safe behaviors, worksites, and processes, we would not be the Company we  
are today. While injuries are rare occurrences at our facilities, we remain vigilant to ensure a safe work  
environment for all our employees and visitors to our sites.

For this reason, our approach to safety must be proactive and 
comprehensive, incorporating active leadership visibility, regular 
worksite analysis, hazard identification, and effective health and 
safety training.

Continuous improvement in our safety culture is another essential 
component of our success. Strengthening our safety culture means 
not only reinforcing safe behaviors, but also creating mutual 
accountability to ensure that people look out for one another. 
Across our Company, ensuring a work environment that protects 
workers and surrounding communities is personal.

Even though we were named a charter member of the Institute  
of Scrap Recycling Industries’ Circle of Safety Excellence, our 
practices, protocols, and tools to enhance safety are always 
evolving. Schnitzer’s safety policies and programs are based  
on leading industry practices and are implemented through the 
expertise of our safety team. Through industry organizations  
such as the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries and the Steel 
Manufacturers Association, we actively participate in dialogues 
regarding reporting standards, benchmarks, and safety trends.  
In Fiscal Year 2019, Schnitzer introduced a new, multi-year safety 
strategy that emphasizes prevention of serious injuries and fatalities, 
works toward achievement of zero injuries, and empowers employ-
ees to cultivate personal safety leadership. With zero injuries as our 
ultimate aspiration, we are working toward a near-term goal of a 
1.00 total case incident rate by the end of Fiscal Year 2025 (one 
recordable injury per 200,000 working hours).

Employees performing Field Level Risk Assessments (FLRAs)

Schnitzer’s Safety Strategy
• Prevent serious injuries and fatalities
• Achieve zero injuries
• Cultivate personal safety leadership

TCIR  30% DART rate 27% LTIR, measured  

by days away  
from work

2015–2019

2015–2019

52%

2015–2019

33

Workplace ImpactFY163.89FY154.01FY174.57FY184.16FY192.80Total Recordable Cases(or Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR))FY16FY15FY17FY18FY19Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred(or DART Rate)2.192.732.602.492.00FY16FY15FY17FY18FY19Days Away from Work(or Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR))0.931.231.031.000.59Safety, Health, and Wellness (cont.)

Serious injury and fatality  
(SIF) prevention 
The first pillar of our safety strategy focuses on eliminating  
incidents that pose the greatest risks to our employees.

For example, while pedestrian interaction with mobile equipment is 
a risk at all of our divisions, molten metal is a unique risk for Cas-
cade Steel. For each task with high SIF potential, we establish con-
trols to reduce or eliminate risk. These controls can include both 
behavioral change and engineering controls, such as automation 
and ergonomic improvements. Our next step is to reinforce with 
employees the critical risks they may face on the job and reiterate 
the necessary controls to help keep them safe. For front-line 
employees, this means being empowered to stop work and speak 
to a supervisor at any time if a control is missing or ineffective. For 
leaders, reducing SIF potential means engaging teams to identify 
critical risks and verify that controls are in place.

Beyond reducing individual injuries and fatalities, an important 
goal of this work is to create a shared learning environment that 
improves safety throughout the Company. We thoroughly investi-
gate all incidents, allowing us to determine whether an incident is 
linked to a systemic issue that may require change at facilities 
beyond the one where the incident occurred and learn from these 
incidents to prevent reoccurrence. 

Programs that are helping reduce SIF potential across  
Schnitzer include: 

 ◦ A safe driving camera system for over-the-road truck drivers. 
This system alerts drivers and managers to behaviors like 
speeding and unsafe braking, as well as driver fatigue. 

 ◦ A “molten metal pathway” at our steel mill to keep employees, 
visitors, and vendors safe. When a melt is occurring, people 
must clear the area for their safety. New signage, floor mark-
ings, lights, and alarms send a clear signal to anyone pres-
ent to clear to a safe area. 

 ◦ Regular training for rescue teams. For the past nine years, 
Cascade Steel has maintained an employee-led “confined 
space rescue team” and “ropes rescue team” who are at the 
ready to assist a colleague trapped in a confined space or at 
heights. Team members participate in monthly training and 
drills, and regularly collaborate with the local McMinnville 
Fire Department. 

34

FY1652%FY1554%FY1750%FY1844%FY1955%Injury-Free Facilities(Percentage of facilities with no recorded injuries)FY1687%FY1583%FY1785%FY1875%FY1984%Lost Time-Free Facilities(Percentage of facilities with LTIR of zero)Safety, Health, and Wellness (cont.)

Working toward achieving zero injuries
Beyond eliminating the most serious hazards, there are many 
ways we can help keep our people safe and ready to work. The 
second pillar of our safety strategy involves creating a culture in 
which employees understand that being productive does not 
take priority over being safe. We establish this expectation when 
new Schnitzer hires are onboarded and trained and reinforce 
this message to all our employees with actions like daily safety 
huddles to remind employees how to best protect themselves, 
as well as monthly Safety and Environmental town halls.

Reporting systems and monitoring processes allow us to ensure 
our controls are effective and we are on track to meet our goals. For 
example, we track not only all incidents that occur, but also near 
misses, allowing us to learn from and respond to potential risks. A 
new process known as the field-level risk assessment (FLRA) helps 
maintenance groups and operators prepare for non-routine tasks. 
To complete an FLRA, an individual or team identifies the risks that 
exist in the task at hand and documents the controls they will 
implement to address each of the identified risks.

Another initiative that is proving successful in helping us drive 
toward zero injuries is the Focus Sites Program, through which 
sites receive increased support from operations and safety leader-
ship. In Fiscal Year 2019, 19 metals recycling and Pick-n-Pull 

facilities were part of the first cohort of the program. These facili-
ties saw an overall 49 percent reduction in recordable injuries, and 
many sites are currently recording an injury-free performance. We 
will continue to roll out this program to other facilities in the future.

Working toward zero incidents and injuries also requires adopting 
a holistic view of occupational health. This includes informal 
actions, such as check-ins at the beginning of a shift to ensure 
employees appear mentally and physically ready for work. It also 
includes offerings such as a nurse line, available for free across 
the Company.

At Cascade Steel, where employees face particular risks due to 
exposure to heat and potentially hazardous materials, a formal 
wellness program helps keep health and safety top of mind. The 
mill offers water and fresh fruit to help employees stay hydrated, 
with special emphasis on the importance of hydration during 
summer months. Respirators and showers are provided to workers 
who are exposed to lead during the steelmaking process. In addition, 
an on-site fitness coordinator helps to encourage proper stretching 
and to create an ergonomic work environment that reduces the 
potential for sprains, strains, or overexertion injuries. 

Managing risks at recycling facilities

Ensuring that radioactive materials do not enter our metals 
shredding facilities is a critical safety priority. We address 
this risk by using radiation detectors at multiple points 
throughout the recycling process, including when a scrap 
delivery vehicle first arrives at a facility and both before 
and after shredding. In Fiscal Year 2019, we added more 
points of detection for radiation in our steel manufacturing 
operations to further strengthen this capability. Likewise, 
we actively monitor for fire risk by inspecting scrap on 
delivery and isolating any discovered flammable materials. 
Forward-looking infrared cameras at some facilities are 
also used to proactively detect “hot spots” within scrap 
piles to help mitigate potential fire risks.

35

Safety, Health, and Wellness (cont.)

Approximately 

  25,000

  LSOs Performed in Fiscal Year 2019

Personal safety leadership
We cannot meaningfully reduce major and minor safety incidents 
across Schnitzer without engaging employees at every level 
across our Company. For this reason, the third pillar of our safety 
strategy is to empower employees to take accountability for their 
own safety and that of others, and to provide tools and programs 
that can make this possible. 

During Fiscal Year 2019, every Schnitzer supervisor and manager 
participated in a two-day training class on safety roles and respon-
sibilities. The health and safety team conducts infield coaching with 
supervisors to ensure they are meeting expectations and providing 
tips on ways they can increase their teams’ engagement. 

One way that managers engage their teams is through Layered 
Safety Observations (LSOs). During an LSO, managers at multiple 
levels observe a worker performing a task. After the task is  
complete, the employee and managers have a conversation 
during which they discuss potential hazards involved in the task 
and controls that have been put in place. Managers may offer 
constructive feedback, and employees have the opportunity to 
share their own concerns or suggestions for further improvement. 
We expect every facility manager across Schnitzer to conduct at 
least one LSO per week. As we continue to embed this program 
within the Company, we are building trust with our employees, who 
are learning that LSOs are designed to facilitate productive conver-
sations about how everyone can contribute to greater safety. 

36

SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

Maintaining a diverse workforce brings many benefits, including accelerating innovation, productivity, profitability, 
and employee engagement. Most importantly for Schnitzer, however, is that diversity makes us a company  
people are proud to work for.

When people are treated with respect, fairness, and equal  
opportunity, they are better able to reach their full potential 
both personally and professionally. Our formal Diversity &  
Inclusion (D&I) program, launched in 2018, is helping us better 
embrace employees of all backgrounds, actively recruit from 
diverse talent pools, and create a respectful workplace with a 
zero-tolerance policy on discrimination and harassment based 
on race, ethnicity, age, military status, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, and religion.

As we continue to develop our Diversity & Inclusion program, we 
are finding ways to integrate D&I into all aspects of our talent  
ecosystem, weaving key messages and principles into initiatives 
and communications that are already in place. For example, new 
training on unconscious bias has been incorporated into annual 
employee ethics training. In Fiscal Year 2020, we will roll out 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are voluntary,  
employee-led groups designed to celebrate diversity and  
foster an inclusive workplace. The first group to launch will be  
a Veterans ERG. Schnitzer was named a Military Friendly® 

employer for 2020, and this group will help us  
continue to create a rewarding place to work for 
those who keep our country safe. 

Measuring diversity  
and inclusion leadership
With more than 3,300 employees, we take pride in our strong and 
diverse workforce. To better understand our own employee popula-
tion and identify opportunities to be even more inclusive, Schnitzer 
has undertaken significant efforts to collect and benchmark diversity 
statistics against industry averages. We are especially proud of 
Schnitzer’s representation of women at the execu-
tive level and on our Board of Directors. With three 
women out of eight directors (38 percent), our 
representation of women on the Board is nearly 
twice the Russell 3000 average (20 percent).

Additionally, we seek a diverse slate when undertaking searches 
for Company leadership positions and new Board candidates.

1  Industry aggregate stats are from 2018 analysis. 

37

Workplace Impact 50% Caucasian 29% Hispanic 10% African American 4% Two or More Races 4% Asian 1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 1% American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% Not SpecifiedSchnitzerU.S. workforce population only 61% Caucasian 17% Hispanic 17% African American 1% Two or More Races 3% Asian 1% American Indian/Alaska NativeEEO-1 by Industry AggregateSchnitzer Workforce Ethnicity Association vs. EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate1 61% Caucasian 17% Hispanic 17% African American 1% Two or More Races 3% Asian 1% American Indian/Alaska NativeEEO-1 by Industry AggregateSchnitzer Workforce Ethnicity Association vs. EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate120%Female23%Schnitzer Management WorkforceGender Association vs. EEO-1 by Industry Aggregate38%Female20%Schnitzer Board of Directors Gender Association vs. Russell 3000Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness (cont.)

Joining a movement  

In 2019, CEO Tamara Lundgren joined more than 700 
CEOs of the world’s leading companies in signing the  
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion. By making this 
pledge, she commits the Company to, among other 
things, fostering effective conversations about diversity, 
implementing unconscious bias education, sharing a 
strategic diversity plan with our Board, and sharing best 
practices with other companies. “Promoting diversity 
and inclusion is a responsibility that every organization 
should make a priority,” says Tamara. “We are honored  
to be part of this group pledged to act on supporting 
inclusion and committed to fostering environments that 
attract and retain diverse workforces.”

Cultural awareness campaign
To increase cultural awareness, inspire employee engagement, 
and foster an environment where open and safe conversations 
can exist, Schnitzer introduced a cultural awareness program  
in 2018. The campaign covered topics such as unconscious bias 
and harassment, discrimination, bullying, and the importance  
of fostering a positive, inclusive culture at work.

Due to the varied nature of Schnitzer’s workforce, there is no single 
technology that all employees use to communicate. This made it 
critical to introduce this campaign through multiple communication 
channels, including posters, monthly videos, newsletters, and  
flyers, in English and Spanish. All were designed to empower 
employees to set a positive example and take responsibility for 
improving our workplace culture.

Other important components of the campaign were town hall 
meetings, held at all facilities, as well as “town calls” hosted  
by CEO Tamara Lundgren. Across the more than 120 town  
hall meetings held over the past year, the top suggestions  
that employees shared were related to communication and  
recognition. We are keeping lines of communication open by 
continuing to hold town halls on a regular basis. In 2019, we  
held an additional 50 meetings and launched a new initiative, 
"Engaging Employees Everyday," or 3Es. We will continue to 
organize employee meetings through this initiative to engage 
employees. Schnitzer also introduced a 90-day engagement 
survey, which is an opportunity for new hires to provide feed-
back on their experiences with the Company to date, including 
perceptions related to safety, culture, communication, and the 
interview and onboarding processes. 

To address feedback related to recognition, we have introduced  
a new suite of recognition programs, including the STAR Finder 
Program, which rewards employees for referring future team 
members; the STAR Award Program, a peer recognition program 
that rewards outstanding performance in the areas of safety, 
teamwork, attitude, and resourcefulness; and a service award 
recognition program that will honor employees for reaching  
milestones in their years of service with the Company.

38

Community  
Impact

39

Overview

Over the course of our long history, we have learned the importance of lasting relationships. Schnitzer is more 
than a recycler and an employer — we are an active member of more than 100 communities across North America. 
We strive to ensure that everywhere we operate, Schnitzer’s presence positively impacts our local communities. 

We take a regional approach to community engagement, tailoring 
our efforts to local needs and priorities throughout the United 
States, Puerto Rico, and Canada. An important part of our work 
involves working with local leaders and chambers of commerce to 
educate our communities about Schnitzer’s sustainable role as a 
recycler and share our perspective on business issues. We also 
support local non-profit organizations through board service, 
charitable giving, and volunteerism. Employees across Schnitzer 
are key contributors to this important effort. They are active and 
engaged in a wide range of local causes, including disaster relief 
and emergency preparedness, homelessness, hunger relief, K-12 
STEM and trade school education, environmental cleanups, and 
critical habitat restoration. By 2025, we expect to donate at least 
10,000 hours of volunteer paid time off to enhance the positive 
impact we make in our communities.

Our Goal: 

Volunteer

10,000 hours

by 2025

Cascade Steel in the community

Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc. is not only the largest  
local metals recycler, but also the largest manufacturing 
employer in McMinnville, Oregon. What affects our busi-
ness affects this community and vice versa. Here, our role 
as a community partner is especially vital. 

Cascade is a major supporter of area schools. In the  
past year, we participated in a job fair at McMinnville  
High School; donated steel, tools, and personal protec-
tive equipment to several high schools; and hosted a  
charity golf tournament where the proceeds went to the 
McMinnville School District. We are also a sponsor of  
Lemonade Day, a program designed to teach kids about 
the importance and benefits of entrepreneurship. 

In addition, Cascade supports local businesses as a  
member of the McMinnville Chamber of Commerce and 
participant in the Leadership Mac program for aspiring 
community leaders. Other outreach includes partnerships 
with the Yamhill County Watershed Council to help preserve 
and care for our local parks, sponsorship of the Yamhill 
County Fair and Turkey Rama, and support for organizations 
that help underserved community members such as Juliette’s 
House and the Yamhill Community Action Partnership. 

40

Community ImpactCommunity Engagement

SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES

Earth Day 
As a proud steward of our planet’s natural resources, Schnitzer 
celebrates Earth Day each year with a day of service in our  
communities. On Earth Day 2019, many of our employees, along 
with their families and other community members, businesses, and 
organizations across all of our facilities and regions participated 
in the global celebration. Highlights of the day included: 

 ◦ Schnitzer volunteered to clean up local parks across our 

footprint. Employees and family members from our Portland, 
Oregon headquarters, as well as facilities in Providence, 
Rhode Island; Concord and Manchester, New Hampshire; 
Folsom and Fresno, California; Tacoma, Washington; Surrey, 
British Columbia; and McMinnville, Oregon, participated in 
cleanup events. 

 ◦ Schnitzer partnered with Meeker Middle School in Tacoma, 
Washington, on a scrap drive where students collected 
6,260 pounds of recyclable metal. The proceeds were used 
to purchase uniforms and school supplies. 

 ◦ The Schnitzer Southeast region held their annual customer 

appreciation cookout, where they gave away seed packets to 
attendees to encourage tree planting. 

 ◦ All Pick-n-Pull retail stores participated in a reuse awareness 
campaign through radio public service announcements, and 
through our website and social media platforms. Messages 
in both English and Spanish raise awareness about the 
importance of recycling and share tips for reusing and  
recycling auto parts. 

Disaster relief
When natural disasters strike, employees across the Schnitzer 
family come together to help colleagues near and far. Our  
charitable foundation, known as Recycling for a Better Tomorrow, 
helps employees and their families recover from disasters that 
occur in areas where we operate. When an event occurs, we  
notify employees by email, on our internal website, and through 
flyers posted in our facilities. Employees may make donations to 
the foundation, which are matched by Schnitzer. 

Captain Anthony O’Brien

These unique training opportunities are 
only possible through the valuable, long-
term partnership between Schnitzer and 
the Everett Fire Department.

Promoting safety in our communities 
Schnitzer’s unique business model allows us to contribute to the 
safety of local communities. For example, unneeded vehicles at 
Pick-n-Pull yards can be valuable training tools for police and  
fire departments. Pick-n-Pull locations regularly host K-9  
Certification Training for dogs that assist law enforcement  
officers. The dogs practice sniffing out various materials and, 
when training is complete, the materials are safely removed by 
law enforcement personnel. Our yards also serve as a training 
ground for fire departments, where trainees learn to use specialized 
tools and techniques for extracting passengers from vehicles in 
the event of an auto accident.

We also enhance safety by keeping weapons out of circulation. 
Since 2009, the Boston Police Department has brought guns 
from closed criminal cases to our Everett, Massachusetts,  
shredding facility, where they are destroyed. 

41

Community ImpactCommunity Engagement (cont.)

Hunger relief
Schnitzer's National Food Bank Initiative has been in place since 
2010. Since that time, we’ve raised almost $2.4 million in non- 
perishable food donations, cash, volunteer time, and Schnitzer 
matching cash contributions, which amounts to donating more than 
7 million meals to more than 40 local food banks. In Fiscal Year 2019, 
we ran fall and summer food bank fund drives at our Pick-n-Pull 
stores that raised more than $230,000 in donations, supporting 
more than approximately 699,000 meals. At our headquarters in 
Portland, Schnitzer partners with the Oregon Food Bank. We 
sponsor a truck that distributes food donations and recently 
held an office machine scrap drive, the proceeds of which went to 
support the food bank. In September 2019, Schnitzer was selected 
as the organization’s Corporate Donor of the Month. 

Schnitzer’s Tacoma facility partnered with Meeker Middle School 
to help establish a schoolyard garden that, beyond growing  
vegetables, is also fostering environmental stewardship and 
community involvement. A special education teacher proposed 
creating the garden to help teach her students about garden 
maintenance. Produce grown is donated to local food banks  
and sent home with families facing food insecurity. Schnitzer 
provided funding to help make the garden a reality.

$2.4 million 

raised for food banks  
since 2010

42

Community Engagement (cont.)

Education 
We understand the importance of educating the next generation 
about the value of recycling and sustainability. That’s why we 
support a number of environmental education initiatives in part-
nership with schools and organizations near our facilities: 

 ◦ Schnitzer is an annual supporter of Civicorps’ Academic & 
Professional Pathway Program and sponsor of Civicorps’ 
High School Diploma Graduation for Resilient Young Adults. 
Civicorps is a charter school located directly across from our 
Oakland facility and has a recycling program at the school. 
We’re aligned with their efforts to help Oakland youth find 
meaningful jobs and promote the value of the recycling 
industry locally and regionally. 

 ◦ In the Northwest, Schnitzer 
supports and serves on the 
board of the Tacoma Youth 
Marine Foundation, which  
provides an outlet for local 
youth to learn maritime skills, 
leadership, and environmental 
awareness. We also partner with Citizens for a Healthy Bay 
on cleanups, patrols, and programs. 

 ◦ Biology and field ecology students from the Lincoln School 
visited the Everett, Massachusetts, facility in 2019. In their 
classes, the students had learned about the effect of  
water quality on marine life, and their visit to Schnitzer 
allowed them to learn more about real-life applications  
of water treatment. Students also learned about recycling 
scrap metal, deepening their knowledge of real-world  
sustainability practices. 

Mentor Mike Grant, Southwest Regional Asset Manager with Civicorps 
graduate Kevin Saefong, Warehouseman at our Oakland, California, facility

43

Monique Valenzuela, 
Executive Director,  
Youth Marine Foundation

We are grateful for the support of Schnitzer 
Steel Industries and members of their 
leadership team. Schnitzer’s support 
allows the Youth Marine Foundation to 
maximize its resources and continue to 
provide life-changing skills and character 
development programming to the Puget 
Sound’s diverse youth population at far 
below market value or no charge.

Meghan Hibner,  
Institutional Giving Manager, Civicorps

Schnitzer Steel is not only Civicorps’ neighbor 
in West Oakland—they are also one of our key 
corporate partners and an inspirational example 
of a company that cares about the local com-
munity. Schnitzer has supported the youth  
we serve by providing internships that serve  
as stepping stones to living wage careers. In 
addition, Schnitzer’s financial contributions 
help us provide the resources our participants 
need to excel in our program. We are grateful 
for Schnitzer’s generosity and commitment to 
young people.

Community Engagement (cont.)

Natalie McKinney,  
Executive Director, Kōkua Hawaiʻi Foundation

For over a decade, Schnitzer Steel has been an essential community partner in our work creating a 
better Hawaiʼi through resource recovery. Schnitzer Steel’s generosity has allowed us to help several 
hundred schools and thousands of community members engage around environmental conservation and 
recycling through the Aloha ʻĀina Recycling Drives. We are continuously impressed with Schnitzer Steel’s 
willingness to share resources and support non-profit organizations who are working to preserve this 
beautiful place.

Flavia Robles de la Fuente,  
Executive Director, The Kidney Foundation 
of Canada

The partnership between 
Pick-n-Pull and The Kidney 
Foundation’s Kidney Car  
program has been going 
strong for over 20 years. The 
program supports research 
to help find a cure for kidney disease. We 
are proud to continue working together 
and are thankful for the partnership that 
impacts so many lives.

Helping those with less 
At Schnitzer’s corporate office in Portland, we’re always looking 
for ways to help people in need. We held our second annual blood 
drive in Fiscal Year 2019. We also host an employee giving event 
during the holiday season. For our giving event in Fiscal Year 2019, 
we worked with Raphael House, a local domestic violence shelter, 
to collect basic items to donate to women and children starting new 
lives. Pick-n-Pull offers a vehicle donation program that allows 
owners to sell vehicles while directing the proceeds to worthy 
causes. In Canada, our charity partner is The Kidney Foundation. 

 ◦ Our Kapolei, Hawaii, metals recycling yard continues to support 
Aloha Aina Recycling Drives in partnership with the Kōkua Hawai'i 
Foundation, a non-profit specializing in community- based 
recycling and education programs. Schnitzer donates all  
proceeds from the drives to local schools, which are used to 
purchase much-needed classroom supplies. Our Hawaii facil-
ity also participates in the Fishing for Energy Program, through 
which obsolete fishing gear is sorted for metals recycling by 
Schnitzer, and non-recyclable material is converted to 
energy at third-party locations.

Our facilities also support schools through donations of needed 
supplies. For example:

 ◦ Schnitzer supports Atlanta-area schools through school 

supply drives and bookbag donations for students in need. 
We recently purchased basketball uniforms for a local school 
and hosted a neighborhood block party. 

 ◦ We donated bottled water to Etowah High School and  
Westbrooks Christian School in Attalla, Alabama, for  
students to sell at athletic events to raise money for  
their booster clubs. 

 ◦ In Puerto Rico, we support schools in the city of Salinas,  
particularly Felix Garay Elementary School and the local 
Escuela Superior by donating air conditioning equipment, 
school supplies, and toys through a local Toys for Tots program.

Shelly Kroll,  
American Red Cross,  
Donor Recruitment Account Manager

The support of Schnitzer Steel is an amazing 
gift to all who receive blood and are associated 
one way or another with the need.

44

Working Toward Tomorrow 

Sustainability means making use of today’s resources in a way that 
ensures they’ll be available tomorrow and for generations to come. 
This principle is at the heart of our business. By extending the life  
of metals, we make efficient use of limited resources. Today’s recycled 
vehicle parts keep people on the road tomorrow.

Today’s scrap metal becomes the foundation  
for tomorrow’s infrastructure.

As you have read in this Sustainability Report, we are thinking about 
tomorrow in other ways, too, from building a workforce that can carry  
us into the future, to giving back to people, especially the next 
generation, in our communities. Guided by our Sustainability Principles 
and goals, Schnitzer has its sights set on what’s ahead. We look forward 
to creating a sustainable tomorrow through all that we do.

 
Appendix
GRI Content Index

This report has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option. The GRI Standards 
are a global framework for sustainability reporting, providing a clear and transparent way for organizations to report their 
economic, environmental, and social impacts.  

General disclosures

Disclosure  
Number

Description

GRI 102: General Disclosures

Organizational Profile

2019 Reference/Response

102-1

102-2

102-3

102-4

102-5

102-6

102-7

Name of the organization

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.

Activities, brands, products, services

About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile / What We Do & Our Business Value 

Location of headquarters

Location of operations

Ownership and legal form

Markets served

2019 10-K page 2

Portland, Oregon

2019 10-K page 23

2019 10-K page 26

2019 10-K pages 3-9

Scale of the organization

About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile

2019 10-K page 28

102-8

Information on employees and other workers

About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile

102-9

102-10

Supply chain

Significant changes to the organization  
and its supply chain

102-11

Precautionary Principle or approach

2019 10-K page 12

2019 10-K pages 2, 6, 9 & 57

There were no significant changes in Fiscal Year 2019

Schnitzer does not follow the Precautionary Principle, but  
has a comprehensive enterprise risk management process.

102-12

102-13

Strategy

102-14

102-15

External initiatives

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

Membership of associations

About Schnitzer / Industry Engagement

Statement from senior decision-maker

About Schnitzer / CEO Message

Key impacts, risks, and opportunities

2019 10-K pages 12-22

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance

Business Impact / Understanding and Measuring our Impact

Ethics and Integrity

102-16

102-17

Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behavior

About Schnitzer / Our Core Values

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

Mechanisms for advice and concerns  
about ethics

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance / Ethics Program

46

Disclosure  
Number

Governance

Description

2019 Reference/Response

102-18

Governance structure

102-19

Delegating authority

Stakeholder Engagement

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance /  
Sustainability Governance

2018 Proxy Statement pages 24-25

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance / Sustainability 
Governance

102-40

102-41

102-42

102-43

List of stakeholder groups

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

Collective bargaining agreements

2019 10-K page 12

Identifying and selecting stakeholders 

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

Approach to stakeholder engagement

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

Reporting Practice

102-44

102-45

102-46

102-47

102-48

102-49

102-50

102-51

102-52

102-53

102-54

102-55

102-56

Key topics and concerns raised

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statements 

2019 10-K page 57

Defining report content and topic boundaries

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

List of material topics

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

Restatements of information

No restatements of information

Changes in reporting

Reporting period

No significant changes in reporting

Fiscal Year 2019: September 1, 2018–August 31, 2019

Date of most recent report

Fiscal Year 2017–2018 

Reporting cycle

Annual

Contact point for questions regarding the report

Brian Lewallen, Chief Sustainability Officer & Assistant General Counsel

Claims of reporting in accordance with  
the GRI Standards

This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:  
Core option.

GRI content index

External assurance

GRI content index

About Schnitzer / Reporting Practices

GRI 200: Economic 

Economic Performance

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile

2019 10-K page 28

103-2

The management approach and its components 

About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance

2019 10-K page 28

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile

201-1

Direct economic value generated and distributed About Schnitzer / Corporate Profile

2019 10-K page 28

2019 10-K page 28

47

GRI Content Index (cont.)Disclosure  
Number

Description

Anti-Corruption

2019 Reference/Response

103-1

103-2

103-3

205-1

205-2

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

The management approach and its components  Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

Evaluation of the management approach

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruption

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance / Anticorruption 
Program

Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and procedures

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance / Ethics Program

Anti-Competitive Behavior

103-1

103-2

103-3

206-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

The management approach and its components  Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

Evaluation of the management approach

Workplace Impact / Integrity, Ethics, and Compliance

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,  
anti-trust, and monopoly practices

None

GRI 300: Environmental

Energy

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

Operational Impact / Overview

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

103-2

The management approach and its components 

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance

Operational Impact / Overview

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Evaluation of the management approach

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Energy consumption within the organization

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Reduction of energy consumption

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components 

Operational Impact / Overview

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance /Sustainability 
Principles 

Operational Impact / Overview

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

103-3

305-1

305-2

305-5

Evaluation of the management approach

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

Reduction of GHG emissions

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction

48

103-3

302-1

302-4

Emissions

103-1

GRI Content Index (cont.)Disclosure  
Number

Description

Environmental Compliance

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

2019 Reference/Response

Operational Impact / Overview

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction 

Operational Impact / Responsible Water Use 

Operational Impact / Minimizing and Managing Waste

103-2

The management approach and its components 

Operational Impact / Overview

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction 

Operational Impact / Responsible Water Use 

Operational Impact / Minimizing and Managing Waste

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Operational Impact / Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction 

Operational Impact / Responsible Water Use 

Operational Impact / Minimizing and Managing Waste

307-1

Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulations

2019 10-K pages 24-25

GRI 400: Social

Occupational Health and Safety

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

Workplace Impact / Overview

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

103-2

The management approach and its components 

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance/Sustainability 
Principles

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Workplace Impact / Overview

Workplace Impact / Overview

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

403-1

403-2

403-3

403-4

403-5

403-6

403-7

Occupational health and safety  
management system

Hazard identification, risk assessment,  
and incident investigation

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

Occupational health services

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

Worker participation, consultation,  
and communication on occupational  
health and safety

Worker training on occupational health  
and safety

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness / Personal Safety Leadership

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness / Personal Safety Leadership

Promotion of worker health

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

Prevention and mitigation of occupational  
health and safety impacts directly linked  
by business relationships

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness

403-9

Work-related injuries

Workplace Impact / Safety, Health, and Wellness / 2019 Performance 

49

GRI Content Index (cont.)Disclosure  
Number

Description

Diversity and Equal Opportunity

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components 

2019 Reference/Response

Workplace Impact / Overview

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance / Sustainability 
Principles

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

103-3

405-1

Evaluation of the management approach

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness 

Non-Discrimination

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components 

Workplace Impact / Overview 

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance / Sustainability 
Principles 

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

103-3

406-1

Evaluation of the management approach

Workplace Impact / Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Awareness

Incidents of discrimination and corrective  
actions taken

Not applicable

Local Communities

103-1

Explanation of the material topic  
and its Boundary

Community Impact / Overview 

103-2

The management approach and its components 

About Schnitzer / Sustainability Goals and Governance / Sustainability 
Principles

103-3

413-1

Evaluation of the management approach

Community Impact / Community Engagement

Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programs

Community Impact / Community Engagement

Community Impact / Overview 

50

GRI Content Index (cont.) 
 
 
Appendix
Sustainability Accounting  
Standards Board (SASB) Index

The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) created a set of industry-specific sustainability standards that cover 
financially material issues that may be relevant to companies in each industry. Schnitzer is reporting to SASB’s Iron & Steel 
Producers Industry Standard. 

Metric

Category

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Activity Metrics

Production Activities

Raw steel 
production, 
percentage from: 
(1) basic oxygen 
furnace processes

Raw steel 
production, 
percentage from: 
(2) electric arc 
furnace processes

Quantitative Metric 

EM-IS-000.A Not applicable: We do not produce any steel via basic oxygen furnace 

tons (t), 
Percentage 
(%)

(BOF) processes.

433,634

100%

487,158

100%

Quantitative

Metric 
tons (t), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-000.A

Finished Steel Products: In fiscal 2019, we 
sold 478 thousand short tons of finished steel 
products. (2019 10-K page 2).

Melt shop production: Our melt shop 
includes an EAF, a ladle refining furnace 
with enhanced steel chemistry refining 
capabilities, and a five-strand continuous 
billet caster, permitting the mill to produce 
special alloy grades of steel not currently 
produced by other mills on the West Coast 
of the U.S. The melt shop produced 537 
thousand short tons of steel in the form of 
billets during Fiscal Year 2019. The substantial 
majority of these billets are reheated in a 
natural gas-fueled furnace and are then 
hot-rolled through the rolling mill to produce 
finished steel products. The rolling mill has 
an effective annual production capacity 
under current conditions of approximately 
580 thousand tons of finished steel products. 
(2019 10-K page 8).

The primary feedstock for the manufacture 
of our finished steel products is ferrous 
recycled scrap metal. Our steel mill obtains 
substantially all of its scrap metal raw 
material requirements from our integrated 
metals recycling and joint venture 
operations. (2019 10-K page 8).

In Fiscal Year 2019, we sold approximately 
4.3 million long tons of ferrous scrap metal 
(including intercompany sales to our steel 
mill). 

To learn more please review the 
Understanding and Measuring Our Impact 
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

Total iron ore 
production

Total coking coal 
production

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-000.B Not applicable: We do not consume or sell iron ore in the production of our 

(t)

steel products.

Quantitative Metric tons 

EM-IS-000.C Not applicable: We do not consume or sell coking coal in the production of 

(t)

our steel products.

51

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Metric

Category

Accounting Metrics

Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Quantitative Metric tons 
(t) CO2-e, 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-110a.1 171,739

0%

Currently, we are subject to reporting-
based regulations that require the annual 
reporting of GHG emissions from our steel 
mill to the State of Oregon Department of 
Environmental Quality (ODEQ) and the U.S. 
EPA. (2019 10-K page 11). However, our 
steel mill will be subject to the Cleaner Air 
Oregon Rules, which is a set of emissions-
limiting regulations, when notified by ODEQ 
at a future date.

In 2019, Schnitzer set our first enterprise-wide sustainability goals, 
aligned with our long-term business success. For Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
(these included production process GHG emissions in metric tons CO2-e), 
we have set a 2025 target, against a 2019 base year and a 2020 start year, 
to reduce absolute GHG emissions from our AMR operations business 
segment by 25 percent. Mechanisms for achieving this target may include 
(1) capital investments in emissions control and air pollutant elimination 
technologies on our metal shredding operations, (2) capital investments 
to achieve greater fuel economy by retrofit and/or replacement of on-
road transport vehicles and off-road equipment, (3) capital investments 
to electrify equipment that is currently fuel-consuming, (4) sourcing a 
greater proportion of fuels with suitable low-carbon fuel alternatives (i.e. 
biodiesel and ethanol fuel blends), and (5) capital investments in other 
energy efficiency technologies for water and space heating applications 
that reduce our consumption of natural gas. Limiting factors to achieving 
this goal may include (1) a shortfall in or inability to make adequate 
capital investments, (2) a shortfall in the emission reduction performance 
of control technologies acquired and deployed, (3) an inability to acquire 
and deploy adequate emission reduction controls and energy efficiency 
technologies, and (4) an inability to source suitable low-carbon fuel 
alternatives. 

To learn more please review the Sustainability Goals & Governance 
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

Not applicable: We do not report on distinct air emissions of the respective 
pollutants listed. However, we have reported on some of these emissions 
(i.e. VOCs) within our gross global Scope 1 emissions, in terms of metric 
tons of CO2-e.

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

EM-IS-110a.2

Quantitative

Metric tons 
(t)

EM-IS-120a.1

Gross global 
Scope 1 emissions, 
percentage 
covered under 
emissions-limiting 
regulations

Discussion of long-
term and short-
term strategy or 
plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, 
emissions 
reduction targets, 
and an analysis 
of performance 
against those 
targets

Air Emissions

Air emissions 
of the following 
pollutants: (1) CO, 
(2) NOx (excluding 
N2O), (3) SOx, 
(4) particulate 
matter (PM10), 
(5) manganese 
(MnO), (6) lead 
(Pb), (7) volatile 
organic compounds 
(VOCs), and (8) 
polycyclic aromatic 
hydrocarbons 
(PAHs)

52

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Metric

Category

Unit of 
Measure

Code

Response/Comment

Energy Management

(1) Total energy 
consumed

(2) percentage grid 
electricity

Quantitative

(3) percentage 
renewable

(1) Total fuel 
consumed

Gigajoules 
(GJ), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-130a.1

Quantitative

Gigajoules 
(GJ), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-130a.2

(2) percentage 
coal

(3) percentage 
natural gas

(4) percentage 
renewable

Water Management

(1) Total fresh 
water withdrawn

3,043,150

48%

2%

1,596,903

0%

60%

<1%

1,175

This figure has received external assurance by Trucost 
in accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level 
assurance.

To learn more please review the Energy Efficiency and 
Emissions Reduction section of our 2019 Sustainability 
Report.

Total fuels consumed include Diesel, Biodiesel, Gasoline, 
Ethanol, Fuel Oil, Kerosene, Propane, Propylene, and 
Acetylene

To learn more please review the Energy Efficiency and 
Emissions Reduction section of our 2019 Sustainability 
Report.

Not applicable: We do not consume coal as a source of fuel.

The majority of natural gas consumption takes place in our 
steel manufacturing operations to run its reheat furnace, 
which is used to reheat billets prior to running them through 
our rolling mill. (2019 10-K page 9).

We consume a small amount of a 20 percent-blended 
biodiesel fuel in our on-road transportation fleet vehicles.

This figure has received external assurance by Trucost 
in accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level 
assurance.

To learn more please review the Responsible Water Use 
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

(2) percentage 
recycled

80%

This figure is an estimate of water recycled within our steel 
manufacturing operations only.

Quantitative

Thousand 
cubic meters 
(m3), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-140a.1

(3) percentage in 
regions with High 
or Extremely High 
Baseline Water 
Stress

The percentage of total water recycled at an enterprise 
level is estimated to range from 50-60 percent, based on 
particular operating activities within the reporting period, 
that may differ between individual facilities, where such 
operating practices and measurements are capable of 
being tracked. Uncertainty of the percentage of total 
water recycled at an enterprise level may be related to 
variables such as a (1) weather-related events (e.g. floods, 
hurricanes, storms, heat waves, and droughts) and (2) 
technologies for the collection and management of data on 
water consumption, usage, recycling, recovery, and re-use. 
(2019 SR page 25).

To learn more please review the Responsible Water Use 
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

This figure represents the percentage of total fresh water 
resources indirectly withdrawn from areas characterized to 
have high or extremely high baseline water stress, sourced 
from (1) municipal water utility supplier purchases and (2) 
on-site well water extractions. Approximately 33 percent 
of our locations' water withdrawal footprints make up this 
figure. At this time, water availability directly linked to the 
respective locations of our operations is not believed to be 
of significant concern, as water is not a direct, raw material 
input of our products, and our water uses in operations 
are limited in scope to, predominately, cooling and dust 
suppression. (2019 SR page 25).

To learn more please review the Responsible Water Use 
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

27%

53

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)

Waste Management

Amount of waste 
generated

percentage 
hazardous

percentage 
recycled

Quantitative

Metric 
tons (t), 
Percentage 
(%)

EM-IS-150a.1

Workforce Health & Safety

This figure has received external assurance by Trucost 
in accordance with AA1000AS Type 2 moderate-level 
assurance.

To learn more please review the Minimizing and Managing 
Waste section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

Based on FY19 Total Working Hours across the entire 
enterprise, all employees (full-time, part-time, temp labor, 
contract, etc.)

To learn more please review the Safety, Health, and Wellness 
section of our 2019 Sustainability Report.

752,902

1%

91%

2.80

0

79.45

Quantitative

Rate

EM-IS-320a.1

Not applicable: We do not report on rates exclusive to "contract employees."

(1) Total 
recordable incident 
rate (TRIR) for full-
time employees

(2) fatality rate 
for full-time 
employees

(3) near miss 
frequency rate 
(NMFR) for full-
time employees

(1) Total 
recordable incident 
rate (TRIR) 
for contract 
employees

(2) fatality rate 
for contract 
employees

(3) near miss 
frequency 
rate (NMFR) 
for contract 
employees

Supply Chain Management

Discussion of 
the process for 
managing iron 
ore and/or coking 
coal sourcing 
risks arising from 
environmental and 
social issues

Discussion 
and Analysis

n/a

EM-IS-430a.1

Not applicable: We do not consume iron ore or coking coal for which a 
process for managing such sourcing risks would be necessary.

In regards to any existing or projected risks or constraints in obtaining other 
raw materials: We believe we operate the only mini-mill in the Western U.S. 
that obtains its scrap metal feedstock from an integrated metals recycler. 
Our metals recycling operations provide our steel mill with a mix of recycled 
metal grades, which allows the mill to achieve optimum efficiency in its 
melting operations. (2019 10-K page 9).

Our businesses require certain materials that are sourced from third-party 
suppliers. Although the synergies from our integrated operations allow us to 
be our own source for some raw materials, particularly with respect to scrap 
metal for our steel manufacturing operations, we rely on other suppliers 
for most of our raw material and other input needs, including inputs to 
steel production such as graphite electrodes, alloys, and other required 
consumables. (2019 10-K page 15).

54

Appendix
Assurance Statement

Assurance statement: AA1000 

WATER           UNIT 
Purchased municipal 
water 

Extracted well water 

WASTE            UNIT 
By Disposition2  

m3 

m3 

QUANTITY 

1,165,273 

10,154 

QUANTITY 

Landfill disposal 

Metric tons 

71,338  

Beneficial Re-
use/Recycling 

3
By Regulation

Metric tons 

681,565  

U.S. Federal RCRA 

Metric tons 

6,280 

 1 The scope 1 emissions included within the assurance do not include 
production process emissions associated with any of Schnitzer’s steelmaking, 
metal shredding and recycling, or end-of-life vehicle dismantling operating 
activities. The following fuels types are included under the scope 1 category; 
natural gas, as well as transportation and equipment fuels such as Diesel, 
Biodiesel, Gasoline, Ethanol, Fuel Oil, Kerosene, Propane, Propylene and 
Acetylene. 

2 The value reported under Beneficial Re-use/Recycling category is inclusive 
of materials for re-use/recycling, materials used for energy recovery, and may 
include U.S. federal RCRA materials. 

3 The value reported under U.S. federal RCRA may be inclusive of all three 
disposition types i.e. by landfill disposal, re-use/recycling and materials used 
for energy recovery. 

Methodology 
Trucost’s assurance activities included the following: 

  Review of the processes by which Schnitzer defines the 
sustainability issues that are relevant and material to its 
operations and its stakeholders 

 

Interviews with managers responsible for sustainability 
performance and data collection 

  Assessment of the extent to which Schnitzer’s 
sustainability activities adhere to the Principles 

  Review of processes and systems used to gather and 

consolidate environmental data 

  Verification of data accuracy for a selection of sites, 

including an audit of conversion factors and calculations 

Trucost was engaged by Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. 
to provide assurance of selected environmental data held 
within its 2019 Sustainability Report. 

Intended users 
The intended users of this assurance statement are the 
management and stakeholders of Schnitzer Steel Industries, 
Inc. (hereafter “Schnitzer”). 

Responsibilities of Schnitzer and assurance 
provider 

The management of Schnitzer has sole responsibility for the 
preparation and content of its 2019 Sustainability Report. 
Trucost’s statement represents its independent and 
balanced opinion on the content and accuracy of the 
information and environmental data held within.  

Assurance standard 
Trucost undertook the assurance in accordance with 
AA1000AS (2008 with 2018 addendum) Type 2 moderate-
level assurance, covering: 

  Evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2018) 

Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness 
and impact (the Principles) 

  The reliability of specified environmental performance 
information (energy consumption, greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG), water and waste) 

Trucost used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
framework, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) materiality map and standards, and the GHG 
Protocol to evaluate Schnitzer’s performance information 
and adherence to the Principles. 

Scope and limitations 
Trucost was engaged to assure the data and claims in 
Schnitzer’s 2019 Sustainability Report. This submission 
covered the period 01 September 2018 – 31st August 2019. 
This assurance statement relates specifically to the select 
environmental performance information disclosed in the 
Sustainability Report, and may not be interpreted as 
validating environmental data reporting from other sources. 
Trucost verified the following energy, GHG emissions, water 
and waste data (as calculated by Schnitzer): 

GHG EMISSIONS 

ENERGY 

UNIT  QUANTITY  UNIT 

QUANTITY 

By Scope1 

GHG Scope 1- 
Combustion 

GHG Scope 2- 
Location-based 
electricity 

GHG Scope 2- 
Market-based 
electricity 

Metric 
tons 
CO2e 

Metric 
tons 
CO2e 

Metric 
tons 
CO2e 

95,143   GJ 

1,596,903  

54,308  

48,951  

GJ 

1,446,247 

55

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurance Statement (cont.)

Assurance statement: AA1000 

PRINCIPLE 

COMMENTS 

Inclusivity: The participation of 
stakeholders in developing and 
achieving an accountable and 
strategic response to sustainability 

Schnitzer’s stakeholders include current and prospective employees, shareholders, 
regulators, local communities, customers, suppliers, and relevant non-profit 
associations. The company engages with these stakeholder groups via internal and 
external communication tools which may include newsletters, emails, in-person and 
remote conferencing, and surveys. Each of the stakeholder groups may interact with 
various company functional groups, and relevant communications are reported to an 
enterprise-level Sustainability Leadership Group (SLG). This communication channel 
allows for the incorporation of feedback into the company’s corporate sustainability 
strategy. For example, in FY2019 the company received feedback on the topic of long-
term goal setting and tracking performance. Based on this feedback, in the FY2019 
Sustainability Report, Schnitzer published long-term sustainability goals to be achieved 
by 2025 or earlier on five topics; safety, volunteerism, , greenhouse gas emissions, 
carbon-free electricity usage, and achieving greater profitability through the 
implementation sustainability-based business initiatives. These sustainability goals 
directly connect to the feedback and analysis set forth in the Materiality Assessment. 
Schnitzer will continue to improve and refine respective initiatives by incorporating 
feedback from its stakeholder engagements.  

Materiality: Determining the 
relevance and significance of an 
issue to an organization and its 
stakeholders 

Schnitzer conducted a Materiality Assessment in FY2018. The main purpose of the 
assessment was to ensure the relevance and ranking of the material issues impacting 
the long-term sustainability of Schnitzer’s operations, and to accommodate the needs of 
various stakeholder groups. In FY2019, Schnitzer’s Board of Directors had oversight 
and input in evaluating the frequency of subsequent Materiality Assessments.  

Responsiveness: An organization’s 
response to stakeholder issues that 
affect its sustainability performance 
and is realized through decisions, 
actions and performance, as well as 
communication with stakeholders 

Impact: An organization’s approach 
to monitor, measure and be 
accountable for how its actions 
impact broader ecosystems  

Schnitzer perceives its environmental performance as critical to its corporate leadership 
and longevity as a successful business. The company recognizes that achievements in 
sustainability help the company improve its competitiveness in its industry, help to 
preserve a broad and deep customer base, attract and retain high-quality talent, protect 
the environment, and positively impact the communities where they work and live. 
Schnitzer ensures that all stakeholder concerns are effectively addressed by the 
relevant functional groups. Some of the highlights of the company’s sustainability 
initiatives are; increase of its carbon-free electricity power mix by enrolling in various 
state led programs on green power sourcing, replacing frontline equipment to fuel-
efficient alternatives and upgrading storm water treatment systems across some of its 
facilities.  

The company’s enterprise-wide sustainability goals for 2025 include long-term 
commitments on the following material environmental topics: air emissions, and carbon-
free energy usage. The company’s governance structure has remained consistent to 
monitor and track performance on environmental Key Performance Indicators. It also 
has a management and reporting system in terms of assigning points of accountability 
at a business segment level, functional unit level, regional level, and facility level. In 
FY2019, the company trained 100% of its employee population on its company-wide 
sustainability strategy as part of their mandatory Code of Conduct Assessment training 
regarding its three core values – Sustainability, Safety and Integrity. The sustainability 
portion of the training, among other things, encourage its employees to put the Value of 
Sustainability into action through their daily work and to take ownership of, and connect 
to, the company’s overall sustainability strategy. Schnitzer is also in the process of 
developing and publically disclosing policies on topics such as biodiversity, water, and 
climate change. For example, based on a gap identified by the leadership group, 
Schnitzer, in FY2019 approved a supplier code of conduct with specific requirements 
on adherence to, among many other things, environmental compliance and sustainable 
practices. 

56

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurance Statement (cont.)

Assurance statement: AA1000 

Findings, conclusions and recommendations 
The principles: Trucost has reviewed sufficient evidence to suggest that Schnitzer’s data and reporting within the Sustainability 
Report, as covered by the scope and boundary of this statement, adheres to the Principles. 

Data reliability:  

Schnitzer has implemented rigorous processes to collect and aggregate global energy consumption, GHG emissions, water use, 
and waste generation. Trucost has been presented sufficient evidence to provide confidence that Schnitzer has effective 
processes and systems in place to collect and collate environmental data such that the company’s environmental performance is 
accurately described. 

Consumption data on energy, fuels, water, and waste were reviewed from original invoices. Emission factors used in the 
calculations of Scope 1 and 2 emissions were sourced from nationally or internationally recognized databases. Upon evaluating 
the data collection systems, Trucost found that the environmental performance data included was accurate and all minor edits 
were made as necessary. Trucost encourages Schnitzer to continue reviewing and updating GHG emissions factors annually or 
as available.  

Assurance provider  
Trucost has been researching, standardizing and validating corporate environmental performance data since 2000. Trucost’s 
research team has the relevant professional and technical competencies and experience to conduct an assurance to the AA1000 
standard. Trucost did not provide any services to Schnitzer during FY2019 that could conflict with the independence of this work. 
This is the sixth year that Trucost has assured Schnitzer’s environmental data held within its Sustainability Report. 

Trucost, part of S&P Global 
London, November 2019 

Steven Bullock 
Global Head of Research 

57

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurance Statement (cont.)

NOTICE  

Copyright © 2019 S&P Trucost Limited (“Trucost”), an affiliate of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. All rights reserved. 

Redistribution or reproduction in whole or in part is prohibited without written permission. All information provided by 

Trucost is impersonal and not tailored to the needs of any person, entity or group of persons. This publication and related 

materials are not intended to provide and do not constitute financial or investment advice. 

DISCLAIMER  
Copyright © 2019 S&P Trucost Limited (“Trucost”), an affiliate of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. All rights reserved.  

This publication and related materials are not intended to provide and do not constitute financial or investment advice. 

The information in this publication should not be construed or relied upon in making, or refraining from making, any 

investment decisions with respect to a specific company or security or be used as legal advice. Trucost is not an 

investment advisor, and Trucost makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in any investment fund 

or other investment vehicle. A decision to invest in any investment fund or other investment vehicle should not be made 

in reliance on any of the statements set forth in this document.  

This publication and related materials (“Information”) have been prepared solely for informational purposes only based 

upon information generally available to the public from sources believed to be reliable. The Information may not be 

reproduced or disseminated in whole or in part without the prior written permission of Trucost. The information may not 

be used to verify or correct other data, create indexes, risk models, or analytics or in connection with issuing, offering, 

sponsoring, managing, marketing any securities, portfolios, financial products, or other investment vehicles.  

Historical data and analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance, analysis, 

forecast or prediction.  

Trucost, its affiliates, or its and their third-party data providers and licensors (collectively “Trucost Parties”) do not 

guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the Information. Trucost Parties are not responsible for any errors or 

omissions, regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use of the Information. THE TRUCOST PARTIES 

MAKE NO WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, AND, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH 

TRUCOST PARTY HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OR 

MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. WITHOUT LIMITING ANY OF THE 

FOREGOING AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL ANY OF THE 

TRUCOST PARTIES HAVE ANY LIABILITY REGARDING ANY OF THE INFORMATION FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, 

SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, CONSEQUENTIAL (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS) OR AN OTHER DAMAGES EVEN IF 

NOTIFIED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. The foregoing shall not exclude or limit any liability that may 

not by applicable law be excluded or limited.  

 ‘Trucost’ is the trading name of S&P Trucost Limited a limited company registered in England company number 

3929223 whose registered office is at 20 Canada Square, London E14 5HL, UK. 

CONFIDENTIALITY & COPYRIGHT 

The information contained in this report is confidential and is submitted by Trucost on the understanding that it will be 

used only by your staff and consultants. Where consultants are self-employed, the use of this information is restricted to 

use in relation to your business. In particular, the contents of this report may not be disclosed in whole or in part to any 

other party without the prior written consent of Trucost. 

58

 
 
 
 
 
 
schnitzersteel.com

299 SW Clay Street, Suite 350
Portland, OR  97201 U.S. 

Contact us: sustainability@schn.com

