2013 Corporate Responsibility Report

Getting Results the Right Way 
For complete reporting, 
including performance data, visit 
Chevron.com/Reporting.

Our New Approach to Reporting

Chevron’s previous Corporate Responsibility (CR) 
report was produced annually as a comprehensive 
printed document that also was shared online. 
Our 2013 report marks a shift to a shorter printed 
version of the report and expanded, more frequently 
updated content on our website. Our CR perform-
ance data, which are now available online, are based 
on IPIECA/API/OGP* sector-speciﬁ c sustainability 
reporting guidelines. Our move to greater online 
reporting allows us to present the same data that 
we have disclosed in previous years and to increase 
disclosure on workforce health and safety, human 
rights and other areas. The move is also being made 
in response to the growing number of people seeking 
information online. Our online CR content should 
create better opportunities for information custom-
ization and feedback. We are continually seeking 
ways to improve the delivery of CR reporting and 
information; we will continue to make enhancements 
as we incorporate feedback from diverse audiences 
interested in our business activities.

Our environmental, safety and workforce performance 
data and our 2013 reporting on IPIECA/API/OGP 
indicators can be found at Chevron.com/Reporting.

On the cover: Students work together on a project at the Summer 
Engineering Experience for Kids camp organized by the National 
Society of Black Engineers. Supported by Chevron, the three-week 
camp at Martin Luther King, Jr. Elementary School in Oakland, 
California, inspired 242 students to take an interest in science, 
technology, engineering and math.

*  IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental 

and social issues) / American Petroleum Institute / International 
Association of Oil & Gas Producers.

A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO

John S. Watson   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer, May 2014

At Chevron, we are proud of the work that we do to safely develop 
the energy that people and businesses around the world depend 
on. Affordable, reliable energy is a cornerstone of economic growth 
and helps improve the quality of life for communities throughout 
the world. As we work toward our vision of being the global energy 
company most admired for its people, partnership and performance, 
we are guided by The Chevron Way, which deﬁ nes who we are, 
what we do and what we believe. 

Everywhere Chevron operates, we strive to build lasting partnerships 
that contribute to local economies. We have learned through 
decades of experience that Chevron’s business success is deeply 
linked to society’s progress and built upon long-term, collaborative 
and mutually beneﬁ cial relationships. 

Chevron.com/CR 

1

 
The foundation of these relationships is our commitment to 
The Chevron Way and the accompanying set of values that distin-
guish us and guide our actions. This report demonstrates the 
impact and importance of two of those values — Partnership and 
Protecting People and the Environment.

We demonstrate Partnership through a commitment to local 
businesses, governments, communities and key stakeholders, 
identifying needs and investing in solutions and programs that will 
deliver measurable and lasting results. Over the past six years, 
we’ve spent more than $258 billion in goods and services to supply 
energy around the world. Our business and social investments 
help advance local economies by supporting local businesses, 
generating jobs and improving lives. 

Beyond contributions to our partner countries through direct 
business investment and taxes, we’ve made nearly $1.5 billion in 
social investments in local communities over the past eight years 
that foster economic growth, with a signiﬁ cant focus on health, 
education and economic development programs and partnerships. 
This includes spending almost $275 million on global social invest-
ments in 2013. Additionally, we support social progress through 
our comprehensive Human Rights Policy and our promotion of 
revenue transparency in the extractive industries.

We understand deeply that Chevron’s continued success depends 
on our ability to operate responsibly. To deliver world-class safety 
and environmental performance, we are guided by a commitment to 
Protecting People and the Environment. Our Operational Excellence 
Management System, built upon this value, provides employees with 
the processes and tools needed to complete every task the right 
way, every time. 

In 2013, we continued to be a leader in personal safety, as measured 
by injuries requiring time away from work. We also undertook 
extensive actions to enhance process safety to prevent serious 
incidents, and through these efforts we delivered our lowest 
number of serious process safety–related loss-of-containment 

2 

Chevron.com/CR

events. However, we are not yet incident-free. Chevron is committed 
to achieving our goal of zero incidents and will continue to focus 
on achieving world-class performance in all measures of safety 
and environmental stewardship.

We hope you ﬁ nd the information in this report to be informative 
and useful. This report shares our progress throughout 2013 
and highlights how we demonstrate our values and create prosper-
ity in the communities where we operate — now and for generations 
to come. You can learn more about our corporate responsibility 
efforts online at Chevron.com/CR. 

At Chevron, we are proud to invest in the people, projects and 
communities that make our business possible.

The 
Chevron 
Way

The Chevron Way explains who we are, what we do, what we believe and what we 
plan to accomplish. At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the 
global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance.

We make this vision a reality by consistently putting our values into practice. 
The Chevron Way values distinguish us and guide our actions so that we get results 
the right way. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, 
protecting people and the environment, and high performance.

To read more about The Chevron Way, visit 
Chevron.com/ChevronWay.

For complete reporting, including performance 
data, visit Chevron.com/Reporting.

Chevron.com/CR 

3

 
PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT

Managing
Operational Risk.

Ingrained in The Chevron Way is our commitment to protecting 

people and the environment, which includes developing 

energy safely and reliably. We strive to develop a culture in 

which everyone believes that all incidents are preventable 

and that “zero incidents” is achievable. Our priorities every 

day are to get our employees and contractors home safe 

and to protect the environment.

2013 Global Employee Survey:
Favorability Percentage

COMPANY IS ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE

97%

88%

86%

Chevron 2013 Global 
Employee Survey

Global high-performing 
companies’ norm in 2013

Oil, gas and chemical 
companies’ norm in 2013

COMPANY IS CONCERNED FOR HEALTH AND WELL-BEING

93%

73%

76%

COMPANY SUPPORTS THE USE OF STOP-WORK AUTHORITY

95%

83%

84%

Towers Watson benchmark data

4 

Chevron.com/CR

Our Operational Excellence Management System 
(OEMS) is a comprehensive, proven means of 
systematic management of process safety, personal 
safety and health, the environment, reliability, and 
efﬁ ciency. Through disciplined application of 
OEMS, we identify risks and integrate operational 
excellence (OE) processes, standards, procedures 
and behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS 
is aligned with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001,* as 
well as the Center for Chemical Process Safety’s 
Guidelines for Risk Based Process Safety.

Within OEMS, we use a management system process 
to drive continual improvement toward world-class 
performance. This process is linked to business 
planning and begins with deﬁ ning a vision of success 
and setting objectives. Gaps between current per-
formance and these objectives are uncovered during 
assessment. We develop plans to close the gaps, 
implement the plans and review plan performance.

We set high expectations for ourselves, which requires 
active leadership. We adopt and share best practices 
with our business and industry partners, and we 
continually take action to improve our practices and 
meet our commitments. From 2005 through 2013, 
our Days Away From Work Rate for our employees 
and contractor workforce fell from 0.12 to 0.02.

Engaged and Capable Workforce 
To advance our OE culture, we build on the belief 
that all incidents are preventable, and we actively 
communicate with and engage our employees and 
contractors regarding our OE-related policies and 
objectives. Every year, we run Global OE Focus cam-
paigns to drive companywide awareness about OE 
priorities and stimulate discussion and engagement 
at the team level. Every three years, we conduct a 
survey to measure employee engagement, retention 
and wellness. In 2013, we received responses from 
77 percent of our survey population. Ninety-eight 
percent of employees who responded said that they 
understand and apply Chevron’s OE standards in 
their daily work activities. These results signiﬁ cantly 

Above: Operators in the Gulf of Thailand walk the catwalk at the 
Platong central processing platform. 

surpass the global oil, gas and chemical company 
benchmarks and global high-performing company 
benchmarks, as measured by Towers Watson.

To enhance our workforce’s OE capabilities, we 
develop our employees’ and contractors’ skills and 
experience in several ways. For example, since 2003, 
employees have attended OE Forums to take train-
ing and share information and best practices related 
to our health, safety and environmental perform-
ance. Every business unit is required to conduct 
regular performance and partnership engagements 
with key contractors to review OE performance 
and share best practices. We also hold forums 
globally with our contractor workforce to promote 
OE culture.

*   International Organization for Standardization environmental management 
system standard and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 
management system speciﬁ cation.

To learn about our Operational Excellence Management 
System, visit Chevron.com/OEMS.

Read about workforce development at Chevron.com/IPIECA.

Objectives

5OE

Operational excellence is 
deﬁ ned as “the systematic 
management of process 
safety, personal safety and 
health, the environment, 
reliability, and efﬁ ciency to 
achieve top performance.”
 It is based on ﬁ ve objectives.

 1   Achieve an incident- and injury-free workplace. 
 2   Promote a healthy workforce and mitigate 

signiﬁ cant workplace health risks.

 3   Identify and mitigate environmental and 

process safety risks. 

 4   Operate with industry-leading asset integrity 

and reliability.

 5  Efﬁ ciently use natural resources and assets.

Chevron.com/CR 

5

 
PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT

Protecting People.

Chevron is committed to protecting the safety 

and health of its more than 61,000 employees and 

more than 200,000 full-time-equivalent contractor 

workforce. We manage risk by applying policies, processes 

and technologies to maintain our focus on having zero 

incidents. Our attention to personal safety and process 

safety goes hand in hand with our programs to promote 

a healthy and engaged workforce.

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

2

Competitor 
Range: 
BP, XOM & RDS*

1

1

1

TOTAL RATE:
Days Away 
From Work

Chevron rating relative 
to independent oil company 
competitors, “1” being 
the lowest rate

,

S
R
U
O
H
K
R
O
W
0
0
0
0
0
2
R
E
P
S
T
N
E
D
C
N

I

I

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

* Source: The data are publicly available from each company’s annual sustainability reporting: British Petroleum plc (BP), ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM) and 
Royal Dutch Shell plc (RDS). XOM rates are lost-time incident rates. RDS rates are lost-time incident rates for injuries only. Competitor data for 2013 
were not available at the time of publication.

6 

Chevron.com/CR

 
 
 
 
In a survey of our 
employees,

95%

said that they would 
be supported for using 
stop-work authority.

Below: Woraman Chalermwat, left, specialist for health, 
the environment and safety, and Parinya Ploypray, medic, 
discuss safety procedures at Chevron’s Platong oil and 
gas production platform in the Gulf of Thailand.

Personal Safety
Personal safety is managed by many targeted 
processes within our Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS). Written safe-work 
practices are a core part of our comprehensive 
safety program. These safe-work practices help 
ensure that potentially hazardous work, such 
as electrical work or entry into a conﬁ ned space, 
is properly approved, assessed and performed 
to achieve the safety standards necessary to pre-
vent workplace injuries and incidents. We also take 
steps to extend these safety principles to our con-
tractors by reinforcing our expectations and moni-
toring compliance with requirements throughout 
the life cycle of our projects. This includes engaging 
with our contractors to improve oversight of their 
activities, particularly when we lack operational 
control. Motor vehicle safety also is written into 
our OEMS. We prohibit the use of cell phones and 
other electronic devices while employees are driving 
company vehicles or driving on company business, 
and we offer customized defensive-driver training 
to employees and contractors through the Smith 
System Driver Improvement Institute, Inc. 

Chevron.com/CR 

7

 
In a 2013 survey,

98%

of Chevron employees 
said they apply Chevron’s 
operational excellence 
standards in their daily 
work activities.

Above: Ashley Geneve, left, Gorgon Upstream offshore 
construction manager, and Rory Denniss, Gorgon Upstream 
advisor for health, safety and the environment, conduct a 
safety inspection before the installation of the Gorgon project’s 
subsea structure offshore Western Australia.

* The American Petroleum Institute deﬁ nes a Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment 
incident as an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from 
primary containment, including nontoxic and nonﬂ ammable materials, that 
results in signiﬁ cant consequence.

8 

Chevron.com/CR

Our behavior-based safety programs, which 
include peer evaluations, improve safety awareness 
among all employees and contractors. Employees 
and contractors alike know they have stop-work 
authority and the responsibility to stop unsafe and 
at-risk behaviors without repercussions. 

While we have achieved industry-leading perform-
ance in preventing injuries, we are still experiencing 
safety incidents that lead to fatalities, which is 
not acceptable to us. Fatalities have a profound 
impact on families, communities and our company. 
Each incident and fatality is thoroughly investigated 
so that we can understand the root causes and 
learn from them. We then share lessons learned 
throughout the company and apply them in 
our daily practices. Chevron has also intensiﬁ ed 
management focus on assuring that critical safe-
guards are in place for every high-risk activity. 
We are also working together with other companies 
in our industry to improve work processes that will 
prevent these serious incidents.

Process Safety
We also apply OEMS to manage process safety and 
work to prevent serious incidents, such as explo-
sions, ﬁ res and accidental releases. We conduct sys-
tematic reviews of facilities and projects to reduce 
risk, and we conduct hazard analyses to prevent 
injury and loss of containment. Multiple layers 
of protection are designed to prevent or contain a 
small mistake or failure.

We saw a reduction in Tier 1 loss-of-primary-
containment incidents* from 74 in 2012 to 36 in 
2013. Programs that contributed to this improve-
ment involved well safety, asset integrity manage-
ment, engineering and operations decision making, 
safety performance tracking, the building of process 
safety competency at all levels, and an increase in 
our use of process safety leading indicators. 

Despite our success in reducing loss-of-containment 
events, serious incidents in 2013 remind us that 
we must continue to work toward zero process 
safety incidents. Through what we learn, we improve 
our procedures, training, maintenance programs 
and designs to avoid repeating incidents. We share 
lessons learned throughout the company and 
with industry organizations, such as the American 
Petroleum Institute. 

Above: Susan Allen, head operator at Chevron’s Pascagoula, Mississippi, reﬁ nery, veriﬁ es that a pressure-relief device is properly tagged, 
dated and set correctly at the Pascagoula base oil plant, where she is on assignment as an operations representative.

Product Stewardship
Product stewardship is another layer in our OEMS 
to protect people and develop energy in ways that 
respect the environment throughout a product’s 
life cycle — from manufacturing to use and recycling 
or disposal. We comply with regulations and act 
in accordance with industry and international 
standards wherever we operate. We assess safety, 
health and environmental aspects of our products 
and comply with product safety laws, both where 
our products are made and in their intended 
markets. In Europe, for example, the Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals (REACH) regulatory framework requires 
information about product environmental and 
health impacts. We have registered more than 
100 substances to date under REACH. We also 
implement the United Nations’ Global Product 
Strategy, a voluntary program that provides public 
information on the safe use of chemicals.

Workforce Health
Chevron’s safety culture is paired with active efforts 
to help employees live healthier lives. In some 
of the areas where we operate, infectious diseases 

such as HIV/AIDS and chronic maladies such as 
cardiovascular disease can be prevalent. Our 
workplace HIV/AIDS policy and training program 
combine educational programs, peer-to-peer 
training and counseling, and access to community-
based care and treatment to keep healthy workers 
disease-free and to educate HIV-positive workers 
on living with the illness. To date, nearly 17,500 
current employees have completed HIV/AIDS aware-
ness training. 

Through our Healthy Heart program, we try 
to reduce cardiovascular disease by offering an 
annual voluntary risk assessment and educational 
resources to employees and their adult dependents. 
The program was updated in 2013 to increase 
employee engagement in the United States and 
Canada. From 2012 through December 2013, more 
than 11,500 participants registered with the program.

For more information on Chevron’s workplace health and 
safety programs, visit Chevron.com/HealthSafety.

Chevron.com/CR 

9

 
PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT

Environmental
Stewardship.

For more than 135 years, we have been committed to 

producing energy responsibly while continually striving 

to improve our environmental performance and reduce 

the potential for impacts from our operations. We have four 

Environmental Principles that deﬁ ne our commitment 

to operating in an environmentally responsible manner: 

We include the environment in decision making, reduce 

our environmental footprint, operate responsibly and 

steward our sites.

Petroleum 
Spill Volume: 
Decreasing 
Over Time

Volume in barrels of spills to land and water that are 
greater than or equal to one barrel are included.

10 

Chevron.com/CR

2 0 1 3

2,135  TOTAL SPILL VOLUME

1,378  TOTAL VOLUME RECOVERED

2 0 1 2

1,684

779

2 0 1 1

2 0 1 0

2009

6,063

10,164

9,584

7,952

8,054

6,250

Above: American alligators are native denizens of the Lower Neches Wildlife Management Area near Port Arthur, Texas, where Chevron 
Environmental Management Co. created more than 110 acres of wetland habitat.

We incorporate these principles 
into our business by applying the 
Environmental Stewardship 
Corporate-Standard Operational 
Excellence process to our opera-
tions. This process is designed 
to identify and manage potentially 
signiﬁ cant environmental impacts 
and assess our activities, with 
the aim of improving performance. 

In 2013, Chevron spent approximately $2.7 billion 
on environmental management activities at its 
consolidated companies, based on guidelines estab-
lished by the American Petroleum Institute. These 
expenditures included approximately $1 billion in 
environmental capital expenditures and $1.7 billion 
in costs associated with the prevention, control, 
abatement or elimination of pollutants from operat-
ing sites, closed or divested sites, and abandoned 
and restored sites.

Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment
We apply our Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process to all capital 
projects within the company’s operational control. 
The ESHIA process provides a systematic and 
risk-based approach to identifying, assessing and 
managing potentially signiﬁ cant impacts. The 
assessments can include potential impacts of our 
activities on surrounding communities, natural 
resources, air quality, land and water, or community 
health and livelihoods. Obtaining input from 
communities and partners is central to the ESHIA 
process and occurs throughout a project’s life 
cycle. Our application of the ESHIA process is wide 
ranging: It informs facility siting, infrastructure and 
technology selection. The ESHIA process has also 
helped our project development teams strengthen 
the protection of local ecosystems, improve pro-
tection of endangered species and enhance our 
community investments. Since 2007, we have used 
our ESHIA process in the planning and implemen-
tation of nearly 900 capital projects worldwide.

7Environmental

Aspects

For Chevron, getting results the right way 
happens throughout the life of a project — from 
planning and construction through operation 
and decommissioning. To achieve this, we 
use our Operational Excellence Management 
System to manage potential risks from 
the activities that may affect the environ-
ment. We have deﬁ ned seven corporate core 
environmental aspects to manage how our 
businesses interact with the environment.

 1   Accidental Releases Management 

 2   Air Emissions Management

 3   Energy Efﬁ ciency and Greenhouse 

Gas Management 

 4   Natural Resources Management 

 5  Site Residual Impact Management

 6  Waste Management 

 7  Wastewater Management

Chevron.com/CR 

11

 
Freshwater Management
Chevron recognizes that water, and particularly 
fresh water, is a critical resource for business, our 
communities and the environment. In 2010, we 
launched a corporate initiative to improve our 
freshwater risk management and reporting prac-
tices, which included publishing our commitment to 
responsible management of freshwater resources. 
The initiative focuses on improving our corporate, 
regional and local water risk identiﬁ cation and 
management through the use of water mapping 
tools. Also in 2010, we established a corporate water 
metric, which collects data on fresh water. These 
data show that we have continually improved our 
measurement accuracy and data quality control. 
In 2013, Chevron expanded its freshwater initiative 
to incorporate non-fresh sources and beneﬁ cial 
reuse of wastewater streams. This initiative contin-
ues to focus on water risk assessment and manage-
ment through the life cycle of our assets. 

Our global practices in natural gas from shale 
operations recognize the importance of managing 
water use and protecting water resources. In the 
northeastern United States, we are working to 
recycle 100 percent of our produced water. By doing 
so, we are able to offset nearly 50 percent of our 
freshwater use. We also recognize that the best 
way to protect water resources is to use strong well 
design and completion standards. Our wells have 
multiple layers of steel casing and cement, forming 
a barrier between hydrocarbons and groundwater.

Climate Change
We share the public and government concern 
about climate change. The use of fossil fuels to 
meet the world’s energy needs contributes to 
an increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — 
mainly carbon dioxide and methane — in Earth’s 
atmosphere. Operationally, we continue to address 
GHGs in our operations and explore innovative, 
low-carbon energy technologies that will help us 
manage our carbon emissions. This includes 
continually improving the energy efﬁ ciency of 
our operations. Additionally, we operate one of the 
world’s largest geothermal energy portfolios and 
have signiﬁ cant investments in two of the world’s 
largest CO2 storage projects. We invest in advanced 
biofuels research and in ways to reduce our equity 
GHG emissions from ﬂ aring and venting. These 
actions span all phases of technology development, 

Above: Chevron’s former reﬁ nery in Cincinnati, Ohio, is now a 
certiﬁ ed monarch butterﬂ y way station.

Biodiversity
Chevron’s Biodiversity Statement expresses the com-
pany’s commitment to incorporating biodiversity 
considerations into its capital projects and opera-
tions. Our Operational Excellence Management 
System includes internal processes and tools, 
such as our ESHIA process, for managing potential 
environmental impacts of all kinds, including 
impacts on biodiversity. Our operations personnel 
inventory their interactions with the environment, 
including those that may affect biodiversity, and 
develop plans for managing them. Through the 
ESHIA process, we conduct a baseline assessment 
of existing environmental conditions, such as the 
presence of sensitive habitats or ﬁ shing grounds, 
to inform our understanding of potential impacts. 
The assessment results are incorporated into 
project planning to help us avoid potentially 
signiﬁ cant impacts and protect sensitive habitats.

Remediation and Restoration
Since 1998, Chevron Environmental Management 
Co. (EMC) has served as Chevron’s leader in 
site remediation and asset retirement and is a key 
enabler to achieving Chevron’s environmental 
stewardship goals. EMC works to decommission, 
remediate and reclaim operating and legacy 
sites, with the aim of beneﬁ cial reuse, including 
habitat restoration and creation. For example, a 
former Chevron reﬁ nery in Cincinnati, Ohio, is now 
a certiﬁ ed monarch butterﬂ y way station, which 
provides resources necessary for the butterﬂ ies to 
produce successive generations and sustain their 
migration. In 2013, EMC was directly involved 
in approximately one-third of Chevron’s estimated 
worldwide environmental spending.

12 

Chevron.com/CR

At our Sumatra, Indonesia, operations, where we have 
94  oil-producing  ﬁ elds,  an effort to curb flaring and 
venting resulted in a 75% reduction of GHG emissions 
and  a  97%  reduction  in  volatile  organic  compound 
emissions since 2008.

Our score of

97 Points

on the Carbon Disclosure 
Project’s S&P 500 Climate 
Disclosure Leadership 
Index was nine points 
higher than the previous 
year’s score.

from research to demonstration and deployment, 
and they signiﬁ cantly inform Chevron’s view and 
involvement in GHG abatement.

In addition to taking inventory of our emissions, 
we include GHG emissions management in how 
we plan and execute our business. We consider 
carbon costs when forecasting long-range supply, 
demand and energy prices, and we thoroughly 
assess a range of potential future policy and 
economic growth outcomes. These analyses affect 
our investment decisions and capital project 
approvals worldwide.

Energy Consumption and Performance
Chevron continues to ﬁ nd new ways to use energy 
more efﬁ ciently in its own operations. From 1992 
to 2012, we used our Chevron Energy Index (CEI) to 
track energy use performance across all operations 
and measured a 34 percent improvement during 
that time. CEI measured our operational energy 
intensity based on estimated technological and 
operational improvements and operational perform-
ance. Over time, as our assets have grown in size, 
complexity and diversity, we recognized that energy 
efﬁ ciency could be better measured and, ultimately, 
improved. In 2013, we adopted new metrics to track 
energy performance. The ﬁ ve metrics are Upstream 
Energy Intensity, Manufacturing Energy Index, 
Pipeline Energy Intensity, Shipping Energy Intensity, 
and one for all other parts of the business. The new 
metrics provide more relevant and transparent 
energy performance measures for each segment 
of our business. They are easier to understand, and 
the segment-speciﬁ c nature of these new metrics 
will help drive energy performance improvements.

Above: A pied oystercatcher flies above Barrow Island, a 
Class A nature reserve offshore Western Australia. For 50 years, 
Chevron has operated successfully on Barrow, the site of the 
Gorgon natural gas project. During this time, all native species 
have been carefully protected, with no invasive plants or animals 
established on the island.

Read more about these environmental topics at 
Chevron.com/Environment. 

To learn more about our natural gas from shale 
operations, please visit Chevron.com/Shale.

Chevron.com/CR 

13

 
PARTNERSHIP

Building 
Local Capacity. 

We demonstrate our commitment to the 

countries and communities where we operate 

by creating jobs, employing local workforces, 

and developing and sourcing from local 

suppliers. This business strategy establishes 

Chevron as a partner of choice that helps build 

local economies and improve livelihoods.

In 2013, we 
spent nearly
$59 Billion
on goods and 
services globally.

14 

Chevron.com/CR

92%

of our employees 
worked in their home 
countries in 2013. 

We are committed to having a workforce that reﬂ ects 
the communities where we operate. We onboard 
and train the local people we hire, developing their 
skills and capabilities, and we have many programs 
in place to build capacity within the broader 
local communities.

Supplier Sourcing 
We apply a customized methodology to develop 
national and local content for our major capital 
projects and our ongoing operations. This process 
is grounded in lasting partnerships. We collaborate 
with national and local governments, national oil 
companies, nongovernmental organizations, and 
development agencies to identify high-impact, 
sustainable supplier and workforce development 
opportunities. We do this within our own supply 
chain and our contractors’ supply chains. For 
example, in Indonesia, where we have operated 
for 90 years and are the country’s largest oil 

Left: Driver Kumar Dyushimov 
operates a crane at Adem Ecology, 
a qualiﬁ ed Chevron supplier 
in Kazakhstan.

producer, a local business development program that 
we launched in 2001 has resulted in more than 
6,100 contracts awarded to local Indonesian compa-
nies and approximately 41,000 jobs being created.

Capacity Building 
After local companies are identiﬁ ed, we design and 
implement programs to help them meet industry 
standards and provide goods and services to Chevron 
and other oil and gas producers. Metrics are agreed 
upon with our partners and suppliers to make sure 
that desired outcomes — in terms of quality, timeliness 
and cost — are achieved. In Kazakhstan, where we 
are a 50 percent partner in the Tengizchevroil LLP 
(TCO) joint venture and the country’s largest private 
oil producer, there are very few companies offering 
household waste collection and disposal services. 
TCO identiﬁ ed Adem Ecology for its local develop-
ment program and helped the company secure 
a loan for its new program that involves separating 
recyclable materials from solid household waste. 
Adem Ecology has since reduced the amount of 
waste entering landﬁ lls by 30 percent. The local 
company has qualiﬁ ed as a Chevron supplier. 

We strive to remove barriers to economic growth, 
so we invest in promoting equality and economic 
empowerment for women. In 2013, we spent more 
than $1 billion with women- and minority-owned 
businesses in the United States and more than 
$2.7 billion on goods and services from U.S.-based 
small businesses.

To learn more about how Chevron beneﬁ ts communities, 
please visit Chevron.com/CR.

Chevron.com/CR 

15

 
PARTNERSHIP

Social Performance. 

Social performance is deﬁ ned as the systematic 

management of social impacts and stakeholder relationships. 

Our social performance relies on conducting business 

in an ethical and responsible way and engaging 

openly with our workforce, partners and communities. 

We work with communities and partners to focus our 

support on strategic social investments in health, education 

and economic development. We build trusted relationships 

by focusing on engaging our stakeholders and managing 

our potential social impacts through our Environmental, 

Social and Health Impact Assessment process, Human Rights 

Policy, and processes for stakeholder engagement and 

legislative and regulatory advocacy. Additionally, we support 

revenue transparency in the extractive industries.

16 

Chevron.com/CR

WE HAVE 
INVESTED
NEARLY

$1.5 Billion

in social programs and partnerships in health, education and 
economic development over the past eight years.

HEALTH Left:  Chevron  and  Pact’s  SHINE  program  has  reached  more  than  1  million  people  across  1,166  Myanmar  villages  to  bring 

sustainable health solutions and improved livelihood opportunities. More than 600,000 people have directly beneﬁ ted from access to health 
services. Right: In partnership with the government of Angola and Texas Chil dren’s Hospital, Chevron’s sickle cell initiative has, since 2011, 
screened more than 65,000 babies and enrolled more than 900 in a disease treatment program.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Left: By helping women overcome adversity and develop trade and business skills, 

the Chevron-funded Vístete de Sueños (Dressed With Dreams) program in Venezuela beneﬁ ts an estimated 2,100 people annually. Right: Since 
2010, the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative has directly beneﬁ ted more than 10,000 people and created more than 600 jobs.

EDUCATION Left: Chevron has committed more than $1 million to support science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 

education programs and job training initiatives in its Marcellus operating areas of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. Right: In 2013, Chevron 
invested nearly $94 million in education worldwide and expanded support of U.S. STEM partnerships and programs, such as the Bay Area 
Science Festival in San Francisco, by an additional $30 million over three years.

Chevron.com/CR 

17

 
Social Investment
Our social investments aim to foster economic 
stability and improve the quality of life in the 
communities where we work. We cultivate strong 
partnerships and make strategic investments 
in health, education and economic development. 
We work with communities ﬁ rst to understand 
their needs and then to develop solutions together 
that seek to remove barriers to economic growth. 
In 2013, we spent $275 million globally.

HEALTH Chevron promotes healthy communities 
by improving access to health care in order to 
help eradicate disease. We partner with employees 
and their families, community programs and global 
health organizations, spending $40 million in 
2013 on programs for treatment and prevention. 
Since 2008, we have partnered with the Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
to ﬁ ght these diseases in areas where we operate, 
directing $60 million for programs in Africa and 
the Paciﬁ c Rim.

EDUCATION We believe education is a building 
block for economic development and employability. 
We support educational programs from kinder-
garten through college, and career and technical 
training for the local workforce. In 2013, we invested 
nearly $94 million in education worldwide, which 
includes major funding for programs that promote 
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). 
We expanded our long-term support for STEM 
education in the United States by committing an 
additional $30 million over three years in programs 
and partnerships, which include Project Lead The 
Way, the Fab Foundation, the National Academy of 
Engineering, Achieve, the USA Science & Engineer-
ing Festival, the U.S. News STEM Solutions National 
Leadership Conference, and DonorsChoose.org. 
Our commitment to advancing STEM will help 
prepare students to become future scientists, 
engineers and innovators.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT We boost local econo-
mies and increase incomes by creating jobs and 
by building local workforce skills and capacity 
through our supply chain activities. We invested 
nearly $44 million in 2013 in local community-level 
economic development initiatives. In 2010, we 
launched the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative and 
announced a ﬁ ve-year, $50 million endowment to 
increase income, employment and equitable 
economic growth in Nigeria. To date, through our 
continued support and a total of 51 programs 
implemented throughout the Niger Delta, more 
than 5,000 people have been trained, including 
400 local business owners and employees. 
This resulted in more than 600 jobs being created.

Chevron achieved 
a rating of

100%

on the Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index for the 
ninth consecutive year.

Human Rights
Chevron has an unwavering respect for human 
rights. We believe that although governments have 
the primary duty to protect and ensure fulﬁ llment 
of human rights, we can play a positive role. We 
adopted our Human Rights Policy in 2009 to foster 
greater awareness of human rights issues through-
out the company and enhance our capabilities to 
identify and manage human rights issues in four 
areas relevant to our business: employees, security 

Marcellus 
Partnership 
Initiative

Chevron invested more than $1 million in 2013 to support 
STEM programs and job training initiatives in its Marcellus 
operating areas of Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. 
We support programs such as the Carnegie Science Center, 
Project Lead The Way and Mentors Community Wealth 
Building Initiative.

18 

Chevron.com/CR

Since 2003, Chevron has sponsored 
HIV/AIDS education, awareness and prevention 
organizations in Angola, including those 
at Maria Imaculada HIV Voluntary Counseling 
and Testing Center, in Cabinda Province, 
where mothers receive milk supplements to 
support infant health.

Since 2008, Chevron has directed $60 million to the 
Global Fund for programs in Africa and the Pacific Rim. 
According to Global Fund metrics, to date Chevron has 
played a part in saving 8.7 million lives through its 
support of the fund.

providers, communities and suppliers. Our policy is 
consistent with the United Nations’ Guiding Prin-
ciples on Business and Human Rights, endorsed by 
the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2011. 

We have a long-term commitment to strengthening 
human rights protections. As a founding partici-
pant in the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights, we promote the principles as 
good practice for managing security operations. 
We also helped develop an IPIECA Responsible 
Security Operations task force that is working to 
further engage the industry on security and human 
rights through information sharing and training. 
In 2013, we participated in the task force’s ﬁ rst 
peer-learning workshop.

Our Human Rights Policy guides our commitment to 
respecting indigenous communities and the rights 
of property owners, and we set expectations for how 
our suppliers treat their employees. We work with 
indigenous communities to understand their con-
cerns throughout new project planning and during 
ongoing operations. In addition, we try to avoid 
relocation/resettlement whenever possible. When it 
is unavoidable, we strive to work collaboratively and 
transparently with communities that are affected. 

We also require our key suppliers to adhere to 
all domestic laws and encourage them to follow 
the International Labour Organization’s core 
principles of freedom of association, the right to 
collective bargaining, the elimination of forced 

Chevron.com/CR 

19

 
Chevron 
Humankind 
Giving

In 2013, through our company-sponsored community involvement 
program Chevron Humankind, 13,000-plus employees and 
retirees contributed approximately 160,000 volunteer hours 
to more than 5,600 charitable organizations in the United States. 
Additionally, Chevron employees and retirees contributed more 
than $19 million to U.S. nonprofits, which Chevron matched, for a 
total of more than $37 million.

and compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor, 
and the elimination of discrimination in the 
workplace. We use regular meetings with our key 
suppliers to reinforce our Human Rights Policy.

Revenue Transparency
Resource-rich countries have the ability to generate 
revenues to spur economic development and 
reduce poverty. We believe that the transparent 
and accurate accounting of these revenues by 
governments and extractive industry companies 
contributes to stable, long-term investment climates, 
economic growth and social well-being. To promote 
revenue transparency globally, we participate in 
the multinational, multistakeholder-run Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). 

Chevron is the longest continually serving member 
of the EITI Board. More than 40 countries are 
now undertaking EITI’s external validation process 
to ensure that they are implementing the program 
according to agreed-upon standards. According 
to the EITI International Secretariat, approximately 
$1.2 trillion in government revenues has been 
disclosed to date. Chevron currently operates or 
has a nonoperated working interest in 17 EITI-
implementing countries: Azerbaijan, Cameroon, 
Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Indo-
nesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Liberia, Nigeria, Norway, 
the Philippines, Republic of Congo, Sierra Leone, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, and the United States. 
In addition, we are supporting several countries 
in their efforts to join EITI, including Myanmar and 
the United Kingdom.

Learn more about Chevron’s social performance 
at Chevron.com/CR.

20  Chevron.com/CR

NEARLY 7,400 
Women Tested

In 2013, through our partnership 
with Pact and the PROMOT project in 
Bayelsa State, Nigeria, 148 health 
workers have been trained to support 
programs that prevent and treat 
mother-to-child transmission of HIV. 
Nearly 7,400 women have been tested 
for HIV during prenatal care, and 
nearly 700 received HIV counseling.

Above: Pregnant women wait to be tested at Agudama 
Comprehensive Health Center, Bayelsa State, Nigeria.

LRQA Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate Responsibility Report for the calendar year 2013

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. 
in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of 
this report. 

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engage-
ment, are:

Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by 
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to 
provide independent assurance on its processes used in the creation 
of the Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for the calendar year 
2013 to a reasonable level using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activ-
ities worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:

•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health, 
environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.

•  Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas 

Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010) 
industry guidelines.

   Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy 

of data and information reported in the CRR.

   LRQA’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LRQA disclaims any 

liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. 
Chevron’s management was responsible for preparing the CRR 
and for maintaining effective internal controls over the reporting 
processes and the CRR. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an 
assurance engagement on the reporting processes in accordance 
with our contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the CRR has been 
approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Chevron.

LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting proc-
esses were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for 
assessing corporate performance and reporting information consistent 
with common reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas 
Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). 

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level 
of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment 
of the verifier.

LRQA’s Approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our 
verification procedure;* the following tasks, though, were undertaken as 
part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:

•  Visiting Chevron Corporation in San Ramon, California, to review data 

collection and checking processes.

•  Visiting Chevron Upstream and Gas offices in Houston, Texas, and 
Chevron Downstream and Chemicals headquarters in San Ramon, 
California, to assess business-unit understanding and implementation 
of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•  Visiting two Chevron Upstream and Gas operations in Thailand and 

Colombia, one Chevron Downstream operation in the United States, and 
the Chevron Technology Center in the United States to assess local under-
standing and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•   Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of 

Chevron’s reporting requirements, including key persons responsible for 
drafting the CRR.

•  Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate 

consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of 
the HES performance indicators.

•  Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the 

reporting processes.

•  Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas Industry 

•  Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to HES metrics 

understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.

•  Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly 

defined and communicated.

•  Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood 

and carried out. Data collected at the site and at local and business-unit 
levels were checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics.

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 

was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.

   Areas for improvement were provided in a separate report to Chevron 

management. These recommendations do not affect our opinion.

LRQA’s Competence and Independence

   LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based 

on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all 
verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed 
by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous 
and transparent.

   LRQA is Chevron’s certification body for ISO 9001, TS 16949 and 

Emission Trading Schemes (ISO 14064). The certification assessments 
and verification are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron 
and as such do not compromise our independence or impartiality.

Andrea M. Bockrath
LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
April 9, 2014

LRQA Reference: UQA4000679

*  LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practice and uses 

the principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness 
and Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE 3000.

   Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s 

Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees 
or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s 
Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any 
person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or 
advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed 
a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this 
information or advice, and in that case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively 
on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

   The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s 

Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other 
languages. 

   This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it 

refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

   Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the 

Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010).

Lloyd’s Register Group.

Chevron.com/CR 

21

 
Our environmental, safety and workforce 
performance data and our 2013 reporting on 
IPIECA/API/OGP indicators can be found at 
     Chevron.com/Reporting.

About This Report

This report covers 2013 data and activities. We also occasionally mention activities that took place before 
2013 and in early 2014 when they help provide a clearer picture of our performance. This report covers 
our owned or operated businesses and does not address the performance of our suppliers, contractors 
or partners unless otherwise noted. All ﬁ nancial information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise 
noted. Our previous report was published in May 2013 and covers 2012 data and activities.

We continue to be informed by reporting frameworks and guidelines that include the Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd edition, published in 2010 by IPIECA (the global oil 
and gas industry association for environmental and social issues), the American Petroleum Institute (API), 
and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP). An index to help readers ﬁ nd information 
corresponding to IPIECA/API/OGP indicators can be found at Chevron.com/IPIECA.

This report, previous editions of our report and additional information can be found at Chevron.com/CR. 
We welcome your comments and feedback.

Ms. Patricia Allison and Ms. Marcy McCullaugh
Chevron Corporation
6101 Bollinger Canyon Road, Room 3208
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324

Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information

This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron  Corporation contains forward-looking 
statements relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to conduct certain of 
its activities, based on management’s current plans and expectations. These statements 
are not promises or guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to a variety 
of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation 
or continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed to forecast in this report, 
may differ materially in the future. The statements of intention in this report speak only 
as of the date of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly update any 
statements in this report. As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as 
“the company,” “the corporation,” “their,” “our,” “its,” “we,” and “us” may refer to one 
or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or afﬁ liates or to all of them taken as 
a whole. All these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise 
description of any of the separate entities, each of which manages its own affairs.

WRITER
Peter Bartelme 

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISOR
Eileen Ostrow Feldman

PHOTOGRAPHY ADVISOR
Maura Warnecke

PHOTO CREDITS
Cover: Maura Warnecke
Page 3: Eric Myer
Pages 5 & 7: Marc Marriott
Page 12: Jim Myers
Page 17: Courtesy of Pact 
(SHINE program)
Page 17: Marc Marriott 

(Bay Area Science Festival)

Page 17:  Courtesy of PIND 

(Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta)

Page 20: Courtesy of Pact 
(PROMOT program)

22 

Chevron.com/CR

 
 
 
 
2013 Corporate Responsibility Report
2013 Corporate Responsibility Report

Getting Results the Right Way 
For complete reporting, 
including performance data, visit 
Chevron.com/Reporting.

2013 Annual Report

2013 Supplement to the Annual Report

2013 Corporate Responsibility Report

Learn More Online 
The Annual Report, the Supplement to the 
Annual Report and the Corporate Responsibility 
Report are available on the Internet at 
Chevron.com/Publications.

Scan this QR code with 
your smartphone to access 
Chevron’s 2013 Corporate 
Responsibility Report and 
performance information.

QR readers are available 
from your phone’s app store.

Chevron.com/Reporting

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship 
Council®–certified Mohawk Options 100, made 
from 100 percent post-consumer waste. It is 
processed elemental chlorine-free and produced 
using wind energy.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar 
panels are expected to offset the company’s energy 
demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel, New York

© 2014 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

913-0386K 5/14 (15M)

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

