2003 ChevronTexaco
Corporate Responsibility Update

A Message From Our CEO

Last year, ChevronTexaco Corporation issued its ﬁrst Corporate Responsibility Report. At that time, 
we presented a comprehensive look at the actions our company is taking globally to address a range
of complex and challenging issues – issues such as human rights, work-force diversity, small business
development and environmental protection. This is an update to that report. Events of the past year
continue to remind us that these challenges are as great as ever and that we live in an interconnected
world where events in one part of the globe can impact all of us. 

Our company’s primary obligations are to responsibly supply the energy 
the world needs while delivering the strong ﬁnancial results that our stock-
holders expect of us. We are fully committed to doing both. 

Additionally, we recognize that companies like ours have a global reach
and, with that, the opportunity to be a positive force. Recently, there has
been an increasing focus on the role of the private sector in supporting
international development efforts. This is an issue of profound importance
to ChevronTexaco. We operate in some of the poorest parts of the world
and, thus, see daily the devastating effects of poverty. At the same time,
the product we provide – energy – can fuel economic and social progress.
This gives us a unique opportunity, through the energy we produce, to
beneﬁt not only our company and its stockholders, but also local com-
munities and host governments.  

Linked to economic development is the issue of governance. Over the past
few years, there has been a growing recognition of the need to help build
the capacity of governments in developing countries so they can raise the
quality of life for their citizens. The management of revenues in the oil and
gas industry has been a central focus of this discussion because of the
important contribution such revenues can make to resource-rich, develop-
ing countries. Our company has supported efforts to bring greater trans-
parency in this area. 

Finally, our company also is focused on another key global challenge – 
ﬁnding ways to meet growing energy demand while reducing the environ-
mental impacts of energy development and use. 

Supporting Economic Development
Our company’s objectives are tied to economic growth around the globe.
However, we will achieve those objectives only if the beneﬁts of growth are
a positive force for society at large. What must be created is a reinforcing
cycle that improves lives, expands markets, and builds safer societies and
more stable governments. 

Toward this end, we are building new types of partnerships aimed at
encouraging both energy development and broad, sustainable economic
growth. These partnerships bring together the expertise of nongovern-
mental and multilateral organizations, ﬁnancial institutions, development
agencies, other companies and, most important, the local communities
where we work. 

One of our best examples is the Angola Partnership Initiative, a more-
than-US$50 million effort to build human capacity and a higher standard
of living for communities across the country. In 2003, more than 660,000
Angolans beneﬁted from the agricultural program. Now we are taking
steps to open Angola’s ﬁrst micro-credit bank, launch an enterprise
development center at a local university and create several distance-
learning centers. 

Promoting Revenue Transparency
We believe transparency and good governance are the underpinning of
social and economic development and critical to ensuring that the beneﬁts
of that development are widely shared. That is why we are actively working
to encourage greater transparency in the accounting of revenues from oil
and natural gas operations. In 2003, we saw remarkable progress in this
area in Angola and Nigeria, where our company has a major presence. 

In a groundbreaking action, the government of Angola agreed to disclose
the signing and social bonus payments associated with a contract extension
with our company’s Angolan subsidiary. In Nigeria, we are supporting the
government in its efforts to publish a number of key government ﬁnancial
indicators, including revenues from the oil and natural gas sector.

Finding Environmental Solutions
One of the greatest challenges our industry faces is the widespread view
that energy development is at odds with a healthy environment. Of particular
concern is the issue of climate change. We recognize these concerns and
are continuing to take steps to address them. At the same time, we are
seeking new solutions to another key challenge for our industry: ﬁnding
ways to safely and reliably supply the energy the developing world needs
to fuel economic development.

To meet those challenges, we are working to minimize the environmental
impacts of our operations today and also are working to advance the
promising cleaner technologies of tomorrow. For example, in 2003, Chevron-
Texaco was selected by the U.S. Department of Energy to be part of a team
to showcase the practical applications of hydrogen energy technology.

We welcome and encourage your feedback at
www.chevrontexaco.com/CR_Report/2003/,
where this report, as well as our 2002 Corporate
Responsibility Report, can be found. 

We also are working to improve our efﬁciency and reduce emissions of
greenhouse gases. In 2003, our company initiated its ﬁrst third-party
veriﬁcation of greenhouse gas emissions, which has enabled us to set an
emissions goal for 2004 with the assurance that the goal is based on sound
and robust baseline data. We also continued to promote consistency in
greenhouse gas measurement and reporting in our industry. 

A Year of Progress – But More to Do
We have made progress in some key areas over the past year, and I am
proud to tell you that we received outside recognition for our corporate
responsibility efforts. Employees in our Nigerian afﬁliate were given the
U.S. Department of State’s 2003 Award for Corporate Excellence for their
sustained efforts to contribute to a higher quality of life in that country.

We also recognize that many of the issues of importance to our company
and our customers, employees, neighbors, partners and investors are 
long-term, and there is still much to be done. I can assure you that
ChevronTexaco people everywhere are committed to continuing 
our work in these areas and looking for new solutions that will 
improve the lives of people everywhere we operate. 

Dave O’Reilly
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer

About This Report

This report is a brief update to ChevronTexaco’s
comprehensive 2002 Corporate Responsibility
Report. It provides our stakeholders with essen-
tial information on our performance against key
corporate responsibility metrics. It builds on,
and is designed to be read in conjunction with,
our inaugural 2002 report and demonstrates 
our ongoing commitment to regular and open
reporting on our social, economic and environ-
mental performance. We report here on 2003
data and activities. In a small number of
instances, we mention events that took place in
2004 when this helps provide a clearer picture
of our performance. The report focuses on our
owned and operated businesses and does not
address the performance of our suppliers, con-
tractors or partners, unless otherwise noted. 

ChevronTexaco’s next comprehensive Corporate
Responsibility Report will be published in 2005. 
It will cover 2004 performance and will provide
a detailed discussion of our progress on the full
spectrum of corporate responsibility issues since
the publication of our inaugural 2002 report. 

We continue to be informed by the Global
Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines and other external reporting frame-
works. As we continue our learning and our
efforts to improve the quality and scope of 
our corporate responsibility reporting, we look
forward to feedback on the content of this and
future reports. 

Cover photo: “Moving Energy”; time-lapse image
of street lights, taken from a moving car.

1

2003 at a Glance

In 2003, we made steady progress in several key areas of corporate responsibility performance while
continuing to expand our understanding and management of our social, economic and environmental
impacts. We maintained our focus on exploring new ways to integrate corporate responsibility
considerations into existing management systems and enhancing our policies and practices related 
to human rights and community engagement. During the year, we also expanded our corporate
responsibility reporting to include global data on diversity, national origin and air emissions.

Award for Corporate Excellence. In 2003, our Nigerian afﬁliate received
the U.S. State Department’s Award for Corporate Excellence for its
corporate citizenship activities in Nigeria. Speciﬁc initiatives cited included
the airlift of more than 2,000 villagers to safety during interethnic and
political conﬂicts in the western Niger Delta, a Riverboat Clinic to bring
healthcare to thousands of people in the Niger Delta and ongoing HIV/AIDS
prevention efforts in the country.

Safety. 2003 was ChevronTexaco’s safest year ever in terms of overall
recordable incidents. Despite this record, very regrettably we had 12
fatalities. Motor vehicle crashes remain the most frequent cause of death.
Our approach to safety is founded on the belief that zero is attainable 
– as evidenced by the 26 ChevronTexaco units that received our “Zero 
Is Attainable” award in 2003 – and we will continue to strive to reach 
our ultimate goal of zero accidents and fatalities. 

HIV/AIDS Initiatives. We continued our efforts to help combat HIV/AIDS.
At the end of 2003, we ﬁnalized a corporatewide HIV/AIDS policy. We also
announced a new partnership with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tubercu-
losis and Malaria in Africa. In Angola, we expanded our program to include
the provision of anti-retroviral drugs to ChevronTexaco employees and
their families. 

Senior-Level Diversity. At the end of 2003, the global representation of
women and non-Caucasian males in senior positions in ChevronTexaco
globally was 19.5 percent, up from 16.7 percent in 2002. We continue to
make progress toward achieving our senior management diversity goals. 

Human Rights. As one of the original signatories to the Global Sullivan
Principles, we have long advocated, supported and demonstrated the pro-
tection of human rights, consistent with the role of business. We remain
committed to a management approach that enhances the sustainability of
our long-standing results and fully integrates human rights considerations
into our day-to-day operations. 

Spill Performance. 2003 showed a signiﬁcant performance improvement
from the previous year. The volume of petroleum spilled fell by more than
50 percent from the previous year, exceeding our year-over-year target of 
a 20 percent reduction through 2006 and representing less than 20 barrels
spilled per million barrels processed.

On behalf of ChevronTexaco, CEO Dave O'Reilly receives an Award for Corporate
Excellence from U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell in recognition of the com-
pany’s community support activities in Nigeria.

2

Left, Chuchupa A Platform, Guajira,
offshore Colombia. ChevronTexaco's
activities in Colombia are focused on 
the exploration, production and
commercialization of natural gas.

Above, ChevronTexaco is the fifth-largest energy
company in the world, based on market capitali-
zation, and conducts business in approximately 
180 countries around the world, producing and
transporting crude oil and natural gas, and market-
ing and distributing fuels and other energy products.

3

Climate Change. Finding ways to meet growing energy demand while
reducing long-term growth in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is among
the most critical challenges facing the energy industry. It is a challenge 
we take seriously as we continue to implement our comprehensive climate
change strategy. Our enterprisewide GHG emissions were approximately 
64 million metric tons of CO2 and CO2 equivalents in 2003. In 2003, we also
initiated a third-party veriﬁcation of our GHG emissions and established a
preliminary goal of 63 million metric tons for 2004. We also announced the
transfer of ownership of our SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions Estimating
System software to the American Petroleum Institute, at no charge, to
promote standardization of GHG emissions accounting.

Energy Efﬁciency. We continued to make steady improvements in energy
efﬁciency. In 2003, we achieved our highest efﬁciency level ever, repre-
senting a 22 percent decrease in energy consumption per unit of output
since 1991. 

Advancing Hydrogen Technology. We are part of a team selected by the
U.S. Department of Energy in 2004 to lead a ﬁve-year demonstration and
validation project designed to showcase practical application of hydrogen
energy technology. Under the project, we intend to provide the design and
construction of up to six hydrogen fueling stations to be operated primarily
in California. 

Harvard Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative. We announced we
were contributing US$500,000 as a founding sponsor of a major initiative
led by Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government to enhance
corporate responsibility effectiveness. The initiative, which was ofﬁcially
launched in March 2004, will marshal resources of business, government,
academia, civil society and the media to address some of the world’s most
pressing social, economic and environmental issues.

Organization of American States Award. We were honored by the
Organization of American States in early 2004 for the programs we have
under way, particularly in Venezuela, to help alleviate poverty in Latin
America. 

While we made considerable progress toward our objectives, we also
have an increased appreciation of the challenge of implementing an
integrated, systematic approach to corporate responsibility across the 
approximately 180 countries in which we operate. We remain committed
to achieving the goals we have set out for ourselves and to continually
improving our performance in this important area. 

Social Performance

Operating in more than 180 countries worldwide, we recognize that we have the potential to
affect people’s lives in many ways. Throughout our operations, we strive to maximize our
positive impacts while minimizing any adverse effects. At ChevronTexaco, we believe that
supplying energy responsibly and reliably is the greatest and most positive contribution that
we can make to economic development and social progress.

2003 saw signiﬁcant progress for Chevron-
Texaco’s Angola Partnership Initiative, whose
goal is to build on Angola’s human capacity to
realize greater economic stability and improved
standard of living for communities across the
country. The original US$50 million target,
announced in November 2002, already has been
exceeded with a commitment of US$25 million
and partner matching of nearly US$43 million 
in direct and in-kind contributions. 

“An excellent example of how USAID and a
private partner can work together is the work
we are carrying out with ChevronTexaco in
Angola,” says Andrew Natsios, administrator 
of the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). “At the end of 2004, 
this initiative will have helped nearly 900,000
Angolans.”

Close to 40 percent of currently allocated
funding is going to support agricultural
development in the Planalto region of Angola,
where USAID is ChevronTexaco’s major partner.
The Planalto was the region most affected by
the country’s 27 years of civil war, which ended
in 2002. Prior to the war, the Planalto was
Angola’s breadbasket and a net food exporter.
Agricultural projects under the initiative assisted
over 660,000 people – either in direct food aid
or training in agricultural practices – in the
course of 2003.

“Investing in agriculture in Angola will have the
largest impact on poverty reduction and provide
the most dramatic potential for increasing
family income,” says Fernando Paiva, Public 

and Government Affairs manager for Chevron-
Texaco’s Angolan operating unit, Cabinda Gulf
Oil Company.

Additional efforts in 2003 focused on small- and
medium-size business development. Funding
was committed to support the opening of
Angola’s ﬁrst micro-credit bank, NovoBanco,
which will provide banking services and loans 
to entrepreneurs and small- and medium-size
businesses throughout Angola. Plans call for 
10 nationwide branches within ﬁve years.
ChevronTexaco’s partners are European de-
velopment institutes and the International
Finance Corporation, an arm of the World Bank. 

A Center for Enterprise Development at the
Catholic University in Luanda also was approved
and a new Enterprise Development Program, in
partnership with the United Nations Development
Program, was sanctioned by the Angolan
government. Additionally, under Chevron-
Texaco’s partnership with the Global Discovery
Channel’s Education Fund, work was started to
support several distance-learning centers.

During the year, we conducted a stakeholder
analysis, which included interviews with more
than 70 people from development agencies,
nongovernmental organizations, government
agencies and ChevronTexaco employees to 
get feedback on our project selection criteria
and decision-making processes. Our current
efforts are centered on growing the initiative
while seeking additional innovative and sus-
tainable projects.

Angola Partnership 
Initiative Update

In partnership with USAID, ChevronTexaco is
supporting agricultural development in Angola.

4

Left, with the help of ChevronTexaco, more

than 1,000 children from low-income families

have attended programs at the Atyrau Small

Academy of Arts in Kazakhstan.

Above, Gloria Pacheco holds a baby from the
Hogamin Orphanage, to which ChevronTexaco
provides support, in Maracaibo, Venezuela.

a

Global Community Investments (2003)
US$million

North America 32.5 

Africa 18.7

Eurasia 4.6 

Latin America 3.2 

Asia-Paciﬁc 1.1 

Middle East 0.4 

Europe 0.4 

Total: 60.9

Note: Includes ChevronTexaco’s share in Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company, Tengizchevroil joint venture, and
Karachaganak Petroleum Operating consortium.

This update report provides key social performance
data and information on some of the signiﬁcant
developments since publication of our previous
report. In addition to our progress in these key
areas, we continue our work on a wide range of
social issues important to ChevronTexaco and our
stakeholders, including supporting human rights,
engaging with local communities, and participating
constructively in the political and policymaking
process. We will provide coverage of our progress
on these and other social issues in our 2004
Corporate Responsibility Report.

5

Community Engagement
During 2003, we completed a worldwide review of our community
engagement activities. The ﬁndings of this review have helped us begin 
to develop a more focused strategy that targets our work around key
community sectors, improves our internal capability to manage and
support community programs, and more clearly aligns our community
initiatives with our corporate responsibility objectives. We also are
increasingly seeking to partner with local, national and international
organizations in the common goal of enabling economic development 
and building human and institutional capacity in the areas where we
operate that are most in need of support.

ChevronTexaco contributes to the communities in which it operates in a
variety of ways, including through the employment it provides, the goods
and services it procures from local businesses, and the taxes it pays. 
The company also makes community investments in areas ranging from
supporting education and training programs to helping build local
infrastructure. In 2003, ChevronTexaco made community investments
around the world estimated at nearly US$61 million. In many instances, 
we conduct these community programs in close partnership with host
governments, community groups and nongovernmental organizations.
ChevronTexaco employees also invest considerable volunteer time in 
these and other community activities.  See chart

a

One example of an initiative we have supported is the September 11th 
Anti-Bias Project, a joint initiative of the ChevronTexaco Foundation and 
the National Conference for Community Justice (NCCJ). The ChevronTexaco
Foundation’s US$1.5 million pledge of support for the project was one
component of ChevronTexaco’s overall pledge of US$10.5 million for
September 11 disaster relief. In 2003, NCCJ awarded US$1.5 million in
grants to 19 nonproﬁt organizations throughout the United States to
advance anti-bias efforts. The September 11th Anti-Bias Project is designed 
to identify and support innovative and replicable approaches to address 
the bias, bigotry and racism faced by those groups and communities that
have experienced heightened discrimination in the wake of the Septem-
ber 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.  

Right, deepsea drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,

where ChevronTexaco taps into rich oil deposits as far as 

100 miles offshore and reaching depths of more than 5,400 feet.

b

Work-Related Fatalities

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

20

15

10

5

20 

Employees

Contractors

Total

4

20

24

4

14

18

2

21

23

1

15

16

0

12

12

1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco.

c

Motor Vehicle Safety
Motor vehicle crashes per million miles driven 
(company vehicles)

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

4.0

3.0

2.0

1.0

20 

Employees

2.52

2.99

3.29

2.94

3.31

1999–2000 data are Chevron, 2001 data are combined Chevron
and Texaco, and 2002 and 2003 data are ChevronTexaco.

6

Health and Safety
Overall, 2003 was our safest year on record, a reﬂection of the hard work
and commitment of thousands of individuals. At the same time, we recog-
nize that we must continue to strive to reach our ultimate goal of zero
accidents.

During the year, we continued our focus on safety and reliability through
the deployment of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS).
Part of our approach is to integrate the management of safety and health
issues into all aspects of our business, including increasing accountability
for safety in our performance management processes.

We profoundly regret that 12 people lost their lives in ChevronTexaco work-
related accidents in 2003. Despite achieving a reduction in total fatalities 
in each of the past two years, each fatality represents a human tragedy 
and a profound loss both to family and to the company. Lives were lost in
Argentina, Honduras, Indonesia, Nigeria, Paraguay, Singapore and the
United States. We are committed to continuing to work within the company
and with our contractors to drive this ﬁgure down to our goal of zero. 
See chart

b

Motor vehicle crashes continued to be the No. 1 cause of work-related
fatalities, accounting for four of the 12 deaths. There was an increase from
2.94 motor vehicle incidents per million miles driven by employees in 2002
to 3.31 in 2003. We believe that part of this increase is due to greater
understanding of the need to report all such incidents.  See chart

c

In 2003, we launched an expanded effort on motor vehicle safety, which
included the establishment of a new network for health, environment and
safety professionals around the world to share ideas and best practices.
The efforts also included formal, targeted reviews, which were conducted
in areas of high risk or poor performance. These two- to three-day reviews
are conducted by subject matter experts with a track record of good perform-
ance in a particular area. This expert team reviews systems, processes,
procedures, roles and responsibilities relating to a particular topic. “Journey
planning” (which proactively identiﬁes and mitigates potential driving risks),
defensive driving and other gaps identiﬁed in these reviews are being
addressed and shared throughout the world to help improve global
performance. 

In 2003, we made improvements in our Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)
for both employees and contractors, though we fell short of reaching our
aggressive target to reduce the rate by 25 percent from the previous year.
Employee TRIR was down from 0.68 recordable incidents per 200,000 work
hours in 2002 to 0.60 in 2003. Contractor TRIR fell from 0.74 recordable
incidents in 2002 to 0.59 in 2003. Over the past two years, we have seen a
30 percent improvement in contractor safety performance.  See chart

d

Employee lost time injury frequency (LTIF) remained unchanged from 2002,
at 1.26 injuries per million work hours. Contractor LTIF improved consider-
ably, from 1.30 injuries per million work hours in 2002 to 0.95 in 2003,
which reﬂects our increased focus on contractor safety.  See chart

e

Right, the CABGOC Clinic in Cabinda, Angola, is supported by ChevronTexaco

funding and provides healthcare facilities for ChevronTexaco staff as well as

for the local community.

In 2003, we continued our focus on preventing repetitive stress injury (RSI).
In 1999, RSI accounted for 40 percent of workplace injuries worldwide. In
2003, RSI accounted for 25 percent of injuries. Overall, RSI TRIR improved 
10 percent from 2002 to 2003, thanks to the continued implementation of 
a prevention program based on early detection and education. 

HIV/AIDS Initiatives
The global threat posed by HIV/AIDS is one that ChevronTexaco continued
to tackle in 2003. During the year, we completed an internal review of our
worldwide HIV/AIDS initiatives, which resulted in the creation of a corporate-
wide policy. Work is under way to develop the necessary guidance and
materials to support implementation, which will begin in 2004. 

Key achievements in 2003 include the following:
• We expanded our program in Angola to include the provision of anti-
retroviral drugs to ChevronTexaco employees and their families. We 
designed the program in Angola in partnership with a local hospital so
that it would then be available to the broader community, not just our
employees.

• ChevronTexaco was one of nine global companies to announce that, 
in partnership with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria and the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, we would use 
our human capacity, facilities and infrastructure to extend workplace
HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs into the communities 
where we operate. The public–private partnership is designed so that 
the companies co-invest with public programs, an approach we, and
others, believe offers signiﬁcant additional scope and impact beyond
what any one entity could do alone. 

• In recognition of his and the company’s commitment to combating

HIV/AIDS, Jay Pryor, the managing director of Chevron Nigeria Limited, 
was named by Nigerian President Olusegan Obasanjo as co-chairman of
the Nigerian Business Coalition Against HIV/AIDS. 

• ChevronTexaco is a founding corporate sponsor of Trans-Atlantic Partners
Against AIDS (TPAA), an initiative working to bring together the Russian
and U.S. governments and private sector to address the fast-growing
HIV/AIDS pandemic in Russia and Ukraine. ChevronTexaco participated 
in, and was the sole corporate sponsor of, TPAA’s ﬁrst Business and Labor
Summit. The summit, held in September 2003, brought together govern-
ment, business and labor groups. ChevronTexaco has committed its
support to TPAA’s development of an action plan to address this growing
emergency in all parts of Russia, including the energy-producing areas.

Helping to combat HIV/AIDS is one of the clearest examples of how our
long-term business interests and immediate corporate responsibilities are
intrinsically linked. While the scale of the task is daunting, ChevronTexaco,
in partnership with all sectors, is committed to continuing these efforts,
locally and globally, in 2004 and beyond.

d

Total Recordable Injury Rate
Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hours

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

20 

ChevronTexaco:
Employees

ChevronTexaco:
Contractors

Benchmark: 
Employees

Benchmark: 
Contractors

1.04

0.82

0.72

0.68

0.60

1.80

1.08

0.88

0.74

0.59

1.32

1.04

0.93

0.90

0.84

1.40

1.22

0.90

0.84

0.76

1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco. Data use American Petroleum Institute as
industry benchmark.

e

Lost Time Injury Frequency
Injuries per million work hours

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2.0

1.5

1.0

0.5

20 

ChevronTexaco:
Employees

ChevronTexaco:
Contractors

1.93

2.00

1.70

1.26

1.26

1.47

1.06

1.37

1.30

0.95

1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco. 

7

f

Geographic Breakdown of ChevronTexaco
Employees (2003)

North America 45% 

Asia-Paciﬁc 24% 

Africa 15% 

Europe/Middle East 9% 

South America 7% 

g

Equal Employment Opportunity (2003)
ChevronTexaco U.S. employees (%)

Minorities among total employees

Women among total employees

Minorities among ofﬁcials and managers

23.1

Women among ofﬁcials and managers

34.8

30.2

Minorities among professionals

Women among professionals

24.1

24.3

31.0

0

10

20

30

40

8

Employees
ChevronTexaco had 50,582 employees worldwide at the end of 2003. Our
employees are vital stakeholders who are critical to helping our company
meet its obligations to investors, partners, customers and governments. 
To maintain a competitive advantage, we must successfully attract, retain,
and develop both current and future talent. See chart

f

With this in mind, two focus areas were established for 2003 as we con-
tinued implementation of our global People Strategy: increase diversity in
candidates for senior posts and retain top performers while optimizing
global talent during organizational changes. 

In 2003, a comprehensive global employee survey was developed, which was
conducted in mid-2004. Major ﬁndings from the survey and the company’s
plans for responding will be outlined in our 2004 Corporate Responsibility
Report. 

Diversity
In 2003, we continued our long-term focus on creating and supporting
diversity within our work force, with a particular emphasis on increasing
diversity within senior positions. Our aim is for our employees and leaders
to reﬂect the diversity of the available work forces in the countries in which
we operate without limitation by race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, citizenship, age, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status or
other status protected by law. 

We continue to seek ways to provide meaningful worldwide employee 
data that respect the global nature of our employee base. As required by
law, we collect Equal Employment Opportunity data for employees based 
in the United States. ChevronTexaco U.S. employment data for women and
minorities remained similar to 2002. See chart

g

At the end of 2003, the representation of women and non-Caucasian males
in senior positions in ChevronTexaco globally was 19.5 percent, up from
16.7 percent in 2002. We are making steady progress in increasing diversity
at the senior management levels.

In 2003, for the ﬁrst time, we aggregated data on women in mid- and
senior-level positions on a global basis. Globally, women represented 9.7
percent of employees at mid-level positions and above at the end of 2003. 

Another area in which we made progress was the percentage of women
hired in the United States. While overall recruitment levels were down in
2003, the number of women joining the company increased from 33 per-
cent of new recruits in 2002 to 43 percent in 2003. 

Global Work-Force Development
During the year, we continued our efforts to hire employees from the com-
munities in which we operate. At the same time, we worked to provide
opportunities for employees to gain work experience outside their home
countries. This is part of our ongoing strategy to beneﬁt from the diversity
and expertise of a truly global work force, as well as contribute to the
economies in which we work. 

Left, Marty Gilles (center), Hawaii Refinery Manager, discusses a review of plant
operation during a field walk.

In 2003, for the ﬁrst time, we collected national origin data on a global
basis. At the end of the year, approximately 96 percent of ChevronTexaco’s
employees were working within their country of origin. Outside the United
States, around 43 percent of senior-level positions are held by employees
working within their country of origin. 

While we have begun tracking this data on a global level, we believe that
hiring and developing local employees is, inherently, an issue best managed
at the local level. Many of our business units set and measure performance
against speciﬁc work-force composition objectives. For example: 

Angola: In ChevronTexaco’s Angolan subsidiary, the percentage of Angolan
national employees rose from 85 percent in 2002 to 86 percent in 2003. 
At the professional and supervisory level, the ﬁgure rose from 64 percent 
to 67 percent in the same period. The company continues to work toward
its target to have Angola nationals represent 80 percent of its supervisory
and professional staff in Angola by the end of 2006.

Indonesia: In ChevronTexaco’s Indonesian upstream subsidiary, at the end
of 2003, 99 percent of employees were Indonesian nationals. At the senior
level, 74 percent of employees were Indonesian.

Kazakhstan: In Kazakhstan, approximately 80 percent of employees of
Tengizchevroil (TCO), ChevronTexaco’s limited partnership, were Kazakh
citizens in 2003, up from 77 percent in 2002. By the end of 2005, TCO’s 
goal is to have Kazakh nationals represent 82 percent of its work force.

Latin America: In 2003, around 90 percent of employees in Chevron-
Texaco’s upstream Latin American Business Unit were Latin American
nationals, roughly the same as in 2002. The business unit continues to 
aim toward its goal of increasing the number of nationals in senior-level
positions by 10 percent by the end of 2004. The business unit also con-
tinues toward its goal of increasing the number of Latin American nationals
working on assignments outside their home countries by 10 percent by the
end of 2004. 

Saudi Arabia: Nearly 90 percent of Saudi Arabian Texaco’s (SAT) approxi-
mately 650 employees are Saudi nationals. In 2003, SAT received the First
Class Award of the Prince Nayef National Awards in recognition of its
efforts to hire and train Saudi employees.  

Above, the diversity and talent of ChevronTexaco’s
global work force is integral to success. During
2003, we continued our focus on hiring employees
from the communities in which we operate.

9

Economic Performance

As a commercial enterprise, we have a responsibility
to deliver strong ﬁnancial performance, thus
creating value for our stockholders. At the same
time, we recognize that we can, and should, create
broader economic value for our stakeholders and
that we do so in a variety of ways.

In this section, we focus on the issue of procurement and, in particular, our
supplier diversity, small business development and local content programs.
In 2003, we spent approximately US$18 billion globally on goods and serv-
ices from external contractors and suppliers. On a local level, contracting
with small, locally owned businesses and, in the United States, minority-
and women-owned businesses, is one of the important ways we can contribute
to the economic development of the communities in which we operate.

U.S. Small Business Development and Supplier Diversity
In the United States, ChevronTexaco’s Small Business/Supplier Diversity
Program continued its efforts to provide opportunities, contracts and out-
reach assistance to small, and minority- and women-owned businesses
across the country.  See chart

h

In 2003, we spent more than US$1.3 billion with small business suppliers 
in the United States. This represents 27 percent of total goods and services
spending and exceeds our 25 percent small business spending goal. 

During the year, we also spent approximately US$223 million with women-
owned suppliers, which represents nearly 5 percent of total spend, and
approximately US$202 million with minority-owned suppliers, which repre-
sents slightly more than 4 percent. In 2004, we have aggressive plans to
reach our 5 percent contracting goal for each. 

Additional highlights from 2003 include:
• introduction into the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council’s 

Elite 11, an honor we also have achieved in previous years;

• receiving an Outstanding Rating for small business contracting and

development from the U.S. Department of Defense, the highest rating
awarded by this agency for contracting;

• receiving the Corporation of the Year award for minority business

contracting and development from the Louisiana Minority Business
Development Council.

Local Content
Outside the United States, we continued our “local content” efforts 
to source from and assist small, locally owned businesses. Many business
units have programs that not only administer the contracts with local
suppliers, but also provide training and other services to help build and
develop those businesses. 

Top, Argenis Solarte, ChevronTexaco employee 
on Platform LL-652, located in Lake Maracaibo,
Venezuela. Bottom, workers at the Tengiz oil
field, Kazakhstan.

h

U.S. Small Business/Supplier 
Diversity Expenditure
US$million

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

1,200

900

600

300

20 

Small business

840

984

1,015

1,364

1,310

Women-owned
business enterprise 244

Minority-owned
business enterprise  216

190

121

178

229

212

209

223

202

1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco.

10

From supporting bakeries to auto repair shops,

ChevronTexaco’s small business development

programs are an integral element of its

Kazakhstan operations.  

Revenue Transparency
We view transparency and good governance 
as critical underpinnings of social and economic
development. In 2003, we continued our efforts 
to promote and support increased revenue
transparency in the oil and gas industry, including
reafﬁrming our support for the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative. We continue to support
efforts that are voluntary, inclusive of host
governments and honor the sanctity of contracts. 

Highlights of our activities include the following: 
• We supported Nigerian President Olusegun

Obasanjo’s announcement in November 2003
that Nigeria intended to publish a number of 
key government ﬁnancial indicators, including
revenues received from the oil and gas sector.
Chevron Nigeria Limited participates in a
Nigerian government working group that is
studying how to launch this effort.

• We worked constructively with the Angolan

government in advance of the 2004 announce-
ment that the Angola Block 0 concession held 
by ChevronTexaco’s wholly owned Angolan sub-
sidiary had been extended to ChevronTexaco 
by the government of Angola and national oil
company, Sonangol. The result was a ground-
breaking public announcement by the Angolan
government and Sonangol of the US$210 million
signing bonus and an additional US$80 million
social bonus, part of which will be targeted
speciﬁcally at Cabinda Province, paid by the
association partners under terms of the exten-
sion agreement.

2003 was one of ChevronTexaco’s
best years ever in terms of
ﬁnancial performance. Detailed
information on the company’s
performance can be found in
our corporate Annual Report,
available on our Web site at
www.chevrontexaco.com. 

11

In 2003, Chevron Nigeria Limited, working with the U.S. Small Business
Administration and the U.S.–Nigeria Development Institute, helped set 
up a Business Information Center in Nigeria to provide training and support
to local businesses. 

Also during the year, ChevronTexaco sponsored two international supplier
forums, one in Nigeria and one in Kazakhstan. The forums were designed
to educate ChevronTexaco’s international suppliers about our local content
goals and to forge connections, where possible, between our local and
international suppliers to help grow the local businesses.

Highlights from several major business units, which together represent 
a considerable portion of ChevronTexaco’s global procurement spending, 
in 2003 include:

Angola: ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary spent US$177 million with Angolan
suppliers in 2003. The unit has established a target to increase expenditures
with local businesses by 15 percent year over year.

Indonesia: ChevronTexaco’s Indonesian business unit spent US$650 million
with Indonesian suppliers at the local level and another US$6 million with
Indonesian companies at the national level. At the local level, 99 percent 
of total spending on goods and services was with Indonesian companies. 

Kazakhstan: ChevronTexaco’s limited partnership Tengizchevroil (TCO)
exceeded its 39 percent local content goal, reaching 42 percent in 2003.
This represents US$564 million spent with Kazakh suppliers, up from
US$415 million in 2002.

Thailand: ChevronTexaco’s business unit spent US$120 million in 2003 with
local suppliers in Thailand, representing 30 percent of total spend on goods 
and services, up from 25 percent in 2000.

Venezuela: Two of ChevronTexaco’s operations in Venezuela (the Boscan
Field and LL-652, a ChevronTexaco-operated oil ﬁeld in Lake Maracaibo)
together spent US$120 million with local suppliers. This represents an 
80 percent local content rate for goods and a 98 percent rate for services 
in 2003.

Environmental Performance

At ChevronTexaco, we regard the responsible and reliable supply of energy as our core
objective. We view protection of the environment as an integral part of that objective. 
In practical terms, this means working to minimize the environmental impacts of our 
existing operations and products, as well as devising new ways to meet future energy 
demand while protecting and preserving the environment for future generations. 

Environmental Management
Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is the foundation
for integrating environmental issues into our business operations. Deploy-
ment of OEMS, initiated following the merger of Chevron and Texaco in
2001, continued during 2003. In the ﬁrst part of the year, we revised our
OEMS internal review protocol. While still designed to assess our actual
performance, the revised protocol now has increased focus on assessing the
functionality of the underlying management system. During the remainder
of 2003, we conducted 19 formal internal reviews using the new protocol. 

Energy Efﬁciency
Improved energy efﬁciency within our operations clearly demonstrates the
link between business and environmental success. Energy efﬁciency, which
applies to all areas of our business, remained a key focus in 2003, with two
milestones achieved.

First, we met our 2003 energy efﬁciency target, with the ChevronTexaco
Energy Index (CTEI) ending the year at 78. This represents total energy
consumption for the assets we operate of approximately 880 trillion Btus 
in 2003. ChevronTexaco established the CTEI in 1991 to track its energy
usage on a consistent basis. The CTEI initially included only our North
American operations, but has since been expanded globally. 

Our 2003 performance represents our highest efﬁciency level to date and 
a 22 percent decrease in energy consumption per unit of output since we
established the CTEI. It also produced a saving of around US$28 million over
the course of the year. For 2004, our CTEI target remains constant at 78.

Second, we met our objective to complete the full integration of assets into
the CTEI in 2003 by incorporating the remaining international upstream
and legacy Caltex and Texaco assets into the index. 

Climate Change
Climate change is a critical issue that ChevronTexaco is taking seriously.
ChevronTexaco’s four-pronged climate change strategy comprises:

• reducing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and increasing energy

efﬁciency;

• investing in research, development and improved technology;
• pursuing business opportunities in promising, innovative energy

technologies;

12

• supporting ﬂexible and economically sound policies and mechanisms that

protect the environment.

In addition, we continue to integrate analysis of GHG emissions into the
planning of all major capital projects.

Having completed our ﬁrst post-merger GHG emissions inventory in 2002,
we engaged KPMG and URS to perform an independent review of the GHG
data quality for both 2002 and 2003. This process will enable us to set GHG
emissions goals with the assurance that the goals are based on sound and
robust baseline data. The KPMG/URS report is available on our Web site at
www.chevrontexaco.com/greenhousegas/. 

During 2003, we also revised our emissions inventory protocol to align with
the emerging guidelines described in the International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association, American Petroleum Institute, 
and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers report entitled
“Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions.”

As a result of revisions to our emissions inventory protocol and data
adjustments arising from the review of our data, we are restating our 2002
emissions numbers. We also are reporting our 2003 numbers for the ﬁrst
time. For 2003, ChevronTexaco’s total net emissions were approximately 
64 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents. This is based on ChevronTexaco’s
equity share in those businesses and operations in which it has ﬁnancial
interests and over which it either has operational control or which report
GHG emissions using a compatible protocol. In 2003, 89 per-cent of CO2
equivalent emissions were from CO2 and approximately 11 percent from
methane, with trace amounts of nitrous oxide. 

In 2003, ChevronTexaco’s oil and gas production, as well as reﬁnery input,
declined over the previous year, in part due to asset dispositions. We made
improvements in energy efﬁciency, though total energy consumption in-
creased due to a variety of factors, including increases in steamﬂooding.
An increase in net imported electricity, as well as slight increases in ﬂaring
and venting, also contributed to the rise of emissions in 2003. Altogether,
these factors contributed with an increase of about 500,000 metric tons of
CO2 equivalents in 2003 as compared with our restated 2002 net emissions 
of approximately 63 million metric tons.  See chart

i

ChevronTexaco’s preliminary corporatewide emissions goal for 2004 is 63
million metric tons of CO2 equivalents. This projected slight decrease from

2003 will be achieved primarily through divestitures of some production
facilities – while maintaining or growing production in other parts of the
base business – as well as through increased efﬁciency. 

In June 2004, ChevronTexaco announced the transfer of ownership of its
SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions Estimating System software, at no charge,
to the American Petroleum Institute (API) to promote the standardization of
GHG emissions accounting. API will be able to make the SANGEA™ software
available without charge to the worldwide energy industry.

ChevronTexaco continues to advocate for consistency in GHG emissions
measurement and reporting across the oil and gas industry. For example, 
we played a leading role in helping shape the “Petroleum Industry Guide-
lines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions” and we have led the API
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimating Work Group for the past two years.

ChevronTexaco personnel also have been selected as lead author and
review editor in two scientiﬁc review processes by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), including one on the revisions of national
emissions inventory methodologies. The review results will have a signiﬁcant
impact on the accurate accounting and reporting process for greenhouse
gas emissions by national governments. 

CO2 Sequestration
ChevronTexaco views CO2 capture and storage, or sequestration in geo-
logic formations, as a vital technology to ensure a safe, reliable supply of
energy to meet the world’s needs. Being a leader in CO2 sequestration is an
essential element of ChevronTexaco’s medium- to long-term GHG emissions
management strategy. This focus on CO2 sequestration reﬂects our prag-
matic, action-oriented approach to advancing energy technologies. It
emphasizes ﬁnding new ways to produce cleaner, lower-carbon energy
from fossil fuels today, while at the same time developing renewable
energy and infrastructure technology necessary for an emerging hydrogen
economy in the long term. 

We participated in several major ongoing CO2 sequestration initiatives
during 2003 with the aim of building our own knowledge and advancing
the technology associated with this practice. In these initiatives, Chevron-
Texaco contributes signiﬁcant funds, people and other resources to advance
the state of the art of this promising technology, which we believe will be a
key component of a smooth transition to a low-carbon future. 

In 2003, ChevronTexaco continued to demonstrate the effectiveness of 
CO2 injection technologies at our ongoing enhanced oil recovery project in
Rangely, Colorado. We have been injecting CO2 at this site since 1986, with
an estimate of more than 19 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents safely
stored underground.

The ChevronTexaco-operated Gorgon Project also continued to move forward
during the year. In this gas development project offshore Western Australia,
ChevronTexaco and the project’s partners are committed to a comprehen-
sive greenhouse gas management strategy that could include the reinjection
of 2 million to 3 million metric tons of CO2 per year, subject to technical
feasibility studies that are now ongoing.

The KPMG/URS independent assurance report on ChevronTexaco’s
2002 and 2003 GHG data, and the company’s plans for improving
the reliability and veriﬁability of the data, are available on our
Web site at www.chevrontexaco.com/greenhousegas/.

i

Greenhouse Gas Emissions*
Millions of metric tons CO2 equivalents

2002

2003

63.4

63.9

By sector:

Upstream

Downstream

Other

Total

By type:

Direct

Indirect

Grid Credits

Total

2002

2003

36.5

24.3

2.6

63.4

2002

62.8

1.5

(0.9)

63.4

37.0

23.7

3.2

63.9

2003†
62.6

2.1

(0.9)

63.9

*Emissions totals exclude our interests in Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc. and Caltex Australia, entities
over which we do not have full operational control and which
do not follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or a
compatible protocol.

In 2002, ChevronTexaco had equity share emissions (as
estimated and provided by the operator) of about 3 million
metric tons of CO2 equivalents from Chevron Phillips Chemical
Company and about 1 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents
from the Caltex Australia reﬁneries. The totals include direct
emissions, indirect emissions and grid credits. Indirect emis-
sions account for emissions associated with electricity and
steam imported by ChevronTexaco, less credits for emissions
associated with electricity and steam exported by Chevron-
Texaco. Grid credits account for the fact the electricity exported
by certain ChevronTexaco facilities is produced more efﬁciently
than the regional or national electricity grid. “Other” includes
emissions from the shipping, coal and power businesses as
well as from administrative and corporate services.
†Due to rounding, individual ﬁgures do not sum to the total.

j

Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Millions of metric tons CO2 equivalents

Combustion 39 (61%)

Flaring and venting 16 (25%)

Other* 9 (14%)

*“Other” includes acid gas
removal, coke combustion,
crude oil transport, crude oil
storage, ﬂashing, fugitives,
glycol dehydrators, indirect
emissions and sulfur recovery. 

13

Previous page (left), employees of Brazil’s Society for Wildlife Research and

Environmental Education monitor the planting of seedlings in a ﬁeld as part

of a reforestation project. Previous page (right), inspecting tree plantings in

the Lower Mississippi River Valley.

Left, Manuel Aprieta Vargas, platform supervisor on Platform Chuchupa A
offshore Colombia.

We also continued to actively participate in the following CO2 sequestration
initiatives:

• the Global CO2 Capture Project, a joint industry–government initiative

supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, the European Commission,
the Norwegian government and eight member companies. Together,
supporters of the project have contributed US$24 million in ﬁnancial
support and an additional US$26 million of in-kind support. The project
has identiﬁed technologies that can reduce the cost of capturing CO2 for
sequestration by over 50 percent compared with existing technologies.
The project also works to identify methods for ensuring storage integrity
and addressing regulatory and public policy issues related to seques-
tration technology.

• the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum, a multigovernmental forum
consisting of 17 national governments or intergovernmental bodies such
as the European Commission with an agreed vision of developing and
deploying CO2 capture and storage technology. ChevronTexaco staff
provide expert input into the policy development aspects crucial to facili-
tating the necessary monitoring, veriﬁcation and public acceptance of the
deployment of CO2 capture and geologic storage technology.

• the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Special Report on CO2
Capture and Storage. ChevronTexaco staff appointed a review editor in
this scientiﬁc review process to determine the latest status of numerous
aspects of this technology development, further formulating a policy-
relevant basis for decision-makers to review, approve and deploy widely
this type of technology. 

• the Cooperative Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies in

Australia. This joint industry–government effort researches the logistic,
technical, ﬁnancial and environmental issues associated with the develop-
ment of CO2 capture technology and with storing industrial carbon dioxide
emissions in deep geologic formations.

• the GEOSEQ project, a joint venture between three U.S. national laborato-
ries and the Weyburn CO2 Project, an International Energy Agency, U.S. and
Canadian government–industry initiative.

Air Emissions
ChevronTexaco continues to work to reduce the emissions produced by our
operations. For several years, we have collected data on the emissions of
nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) from our reﬁning operations in the United States. In 2003, for the
ﬁrst time, we estimated the global emissions of NOx and SOx for all our
operations worldwide. These emissions were estimated using methods
developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the American
Petroleum Institute and other sources.

Globally, our 2003 emissions of NOx and SOx were estimated to be approx-
imately 126,000 metric tons of NOx and 141,000 metric tons of SOx.

Flaring
We continue to pursue activities to reduce the ﬂaring
or venting of the gas that is unavoidably produced in
association with oil. Such reductions will make a sig-
niﬁcant contribution to cutting our GHG emissions, as
ﬂaring and venting accounted for approximately 25
percent of our 2003 total GHG emissions. See chart

j

In 2003, work was initiated or continued on several
major capital projects that incorporate ﬂaring re-
duction or elimination elements. For example, the
US$1.9 billion Sanha Condensate Project in Angola
and the planned Angola Liqueﬁed Natural Gas Proj-
ect are both part of our commitment to eliminate
routine ﬂaring from our Angolan operations. The West
Africa Gas Pipeline will move natural gas, which pre-
viously would have been ﬂared, from Nigeria into
Togo, Benin and Ghana. In addition, expansion of 
the existing Escravos Gas Plant and a gas-to-liquids
project at Escravos are being evaluated as a means
of further reducing ﬂaring.

We also continued to support the World Bank Global
Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GGFRP), through
our role on the steering committee and providing a
seconded employee to the partnership team. 

Looking ahead, we anticipate ﬁnalizing a new gas-
flaring standard for our international upstream
operations. The standard, which will be aligned with
the voluntary one recently proposed by the World
Bank GGFRP, aims to eliminate continual venting 
and ﬂaring.

Offshore Drilling Discharge Standard 
In 2003, we ﬁnalized our International Offshore
Drilling Discharge standard, which prohibits the
discharge of oil-based mud and cuttings. Where
nonoil-based muds are used, the standard requires
drilling projects to complete a risk-based assessment
that incorporates a number of site-speciﬁc factors,
including water depth, currents and proximity to
sensitive habitat, to minimize the impacts of our
operations on the environment. It also requires that
all offshore drilling rigs using nonwater-based
drilling ﬂuids be equipped with advanced cuttings-
cleaning systems. 

14

Artist's rendering of an innovative 
hydrogen energy station planned for Oakland,
California, in a cooperative agreement between
ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures and the
Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District. 

Advancing Energy
Technologies

Advancing energy technologies in ways that 
are market-driven and economically sound is 
an integral part of responsibly supplying energy. 
As part of our comprehensive energy develop-
ment strategy, we are actively pursuing invest-
ments in alternative and renewable technologies,
energy efﬁciency, cleaner fuels, gas-to-liquids,
and a variety of other promising, practical
energy solutions.

Our approach to managing technology is focus-
ed on deploying technologies to enhance the
performance of our core hydrocarbon business-
es while developing technologies to expand
business opportunities. Because hydrocarbons
will continue to play the central role in energy
supply for the next several decades, we view
ﬁnding ways to produce cleaner, more efﬁcient
energy from oil and natural gas as one of our
most important responsibilities.

Our approach is founded on the belief that new
technologies and energy sources must be able
to compete in the marketplace, and that such
technological investments must be considered
in the context of our broad energy development
strategy. ChevronTexaco’s objective is to main-
tain a balanced, economically sound energy
portfolio while continually working to minimize
the environmental impacts of energy develop-
ment and use.

Highlights of our recent activities include:

Managing Technology. In 2003, we merged 
our formerly separate technology groups into 

an enterprisewide Energy Technology Company
(ETC), creating an organization unique in our
industry and one that delivers integrated
technology solutions to our core business
sectors. ETC is making key advances in areas
including reservoir management, deepwater
exploration and production, seismic imaging,
clean fuel production, and next-generation 
gas-to-liquids conversion technology.

Hydrogen. ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures,
a wholly owned unit within ChevronTexaco,
continued to explore new, advanced energy
technologies, with a particular focus on hydro-
gen. In 2003, Technology Ventures was awarded
a cost-shared grant of approximately US$5.9
million by the U.S. Department of Energy to
explore new hydrogen fuel-processing appli-
cations as part of a larger research and develop-
ment initiative.

In early 2004, ChevronTexaco and its project
partners, Hyundai Motor Company and UTC Fuel
Cells, were selected by the U.S. Department of
Energy to lead a ﬁve-year “Controlled Hydrogen
Fleet and Infrastructure Demonstration and
Validation Project,” designed to showcase
practical application of hydrogen energy
technology. Under the project, ChevronTexaco
intends to provide the design and construction
of up to six hydrogen fueling stations to be
operated primarily in California. 

ChevronTexaco also announced an innovative
cooperative agreement with the Alameda-
Contra Costa Transit District (AC Transit, Oakland,
California) to build a state-of-the-art hydrogen
energy station in Oakland that will produce
hydrogen fuel for fuel cell ﬂeets. The station 
will have the additional capability of utilizing
excess hydrogen production to generate high-
quality electrical power from a stationary fuel cell.

Emerging Energy. ChevronTexaco Technology
Ventures formed a new Emerging Energies
group tasked with identifying and assessing
strategic and commercial opportunities to advance
or apply a wide variety of energy technologies,
such as solar, wind, biomass and geothermal.
Additionally, ChevronTexaco’s Venture Capital
group invests in early-stage technology
companies whose innovations could beneﬁt
ChevronTexaco's existing businesses or lead 
to new growth opportunities.  

Distributed Generation and Integrated
Energy Solutions. Chevron Energy Solutions
(CES), a wholly owned unit within Chevron-
Texaco, acquired Energy Masters International
and Viron Energy Services. CES provides, among
other services, energy conservation, efﬁciency
and power generation improvements to edu-
cational institutions, government agencies, and
commercial and industrial businesses around
the world. CES also installs distributed or back-
up generation, including proven alternative
technologies such as fuel cells and solar power.
In addition to helping schools and government
institutions improve energy efﬁciency and reduce
energy costs, CES projects for its clients reduced
CO2 emissions by 235,000 metric tons in 2003. 

In early 2004, CES was awarded contracts from
the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S.
Department of Energy to engineer and install
facility improvements at three military bases.
The improvements are expected to save U.S.
taxpayers approximately US$150 million and
reduce GHG emissions by nearly 1.4 million metric
tons over the course of the 18-year contract.

15

Left, Caspian Pipeline Consortium’s (CPC) terminal, Novorossiysk, Russia. 

The US$2.6 billion CPC project consists of a 935-mile pipeline.

Right, a supply vessel makes a delivery to Genesis Platform in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico. Far right, Allen Hein, maintenance team leader,
communicates with a co-worker. 

Preliminary data on global VOC emissions have been collected and are
currently being validated internally. These data will appear in our 2004
Corporate Responsibility Report. See chart

k

While nonGHG air emissions are best managed at the business unit,
country or facility level, in developing our global benchmark we aim to
address these emissions in a more systematic and measurable way across
all our operations. Within our U.S. reﬁning operations, our installation of
control technology in many facilities in recent years has resulted in a con-
tinued reduction in both NOx and SOx emissions, while in the last year, 
VOC emissions remained roughly constant. On a normalized, per-barrels-
of-reﬁned-product-produced basis, emissions of NOx, SOx and VOC stayed
roughly ﬂat from 2002 to 2003.  See chart

l

Environmental Expenditures, Fines and Litigation
Environmental Expenditures
Using deﬁnitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum
Institute, and as we reported to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, we estimate our worldwide environmental spending in 2003 at
US$1.1 billion for ChevronTexaco consolidated companies. Included in these
expenditures are US$305 million of environmental capital expenditures and
US$820 million of costs associated with the control and abatement of
hazardous substances and pollutants from our ongoing operations.

Environmental Fines and Settlements
At times in 2003, our facilities did not meet all governmental environmental,
health and safety requirements, resulting in ﬁnes and penalties. We are
committed to improving and learning from our mistakes. In 2003, we paid
nearly US$4.7 million in environmental, and health and safety ﬁnes and
settlements. See chart

m

The number of such settlements rose from 278 in 2002 to 470 in 2003,
mainly due to an increase in health and safety ﬁnes in the United States
and Europe. Health and safety settlements accounted for 375 of the total,
representing some US$1 million, while the remaining 95 ﬁnes and settle-
ments were for environmental issues accounting for US$3.7 million.

The most signiﬁcant expense in 2003 was US$2.86 million, which related to
the settlement of two lawsuits that alleged violations of the U.S. Clean Water
Act in the Permian Basin. As part of the settlement, ChevronTexaco agreed
to equipment upgrades, which accounted for the majority of the expense. 

In 2003, as part of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA)
Petroleum Reﬁnery Initiative to reduce air emissions from the nation’s
reﬁneries, Chevron U.S.A. Inc. entered into a voluntary agreement with the
EPA and the states of Hawaii, Mississippi and Utah and the Bay Area
Quality Management District in California. It is estimated the agreement
will require the company to spend up to US$275 million to install and
implement innovative control technologies to reduce emissions at its
reﬁneries. The company also will pay a US$3.5 million civil penalty and
spend more than US$4 million on further emissions controls and other
environmental projects in communities around the company’s reﬁneries.
While the company disagrees with the underlying allegations made 

k

Global NOx and SOx Emissions (2003)
Metric tons

NOx

SOx

125,630

141,446

NOx

SOx

Upstream

100,046

111,050

Downstream

Other

Total

13,109

12,475

29,010

1,386

125,630

141,446

2003 is the ﬁrst year that total SOx and NOx data
were collected at the corporate level.

l

U.S. Reﬁning Emissions
Metric tons

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

NOx

SOx

VOC

20 

11,955

10,745

10,105

11,733

12,411

9,326

11,358

11,295

7,793

8,213

7,990

11,356

10,501

8,535

8,555

Metric tons per million barrels processed

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

40

30

20

10

20 

NOx

SOx

VOC

39

35

30

35

37

28

33

32

22

24

33

25

24

31

25

The 2003 data contain 2002 data for the Hawaii Reﬁnery and 2002
VOC data for the Pascagoula Reﬁnery.

against it in the case, it believes that the voluntary settlement provided 
a resolution that emphasizes environmental beneﬁt and is consistent with
the company’s ongoing work to control emissions. 

Litigation in Ecuador
ChevronTexaco remains the subject of litigation in Ecuador stemming from
the involvement of a subsidiary in an oil producing consortium from 1964 to
1992. The lawsuit, which alleges environmental damage, is now before a
court in the Oriente region of Ecuador. The company is vigorously challenging
the lawsuit on the grounds that Texaco Petroleum Company (TexPet) satisﬁed
all its obligations and commitments and was released by the government
of Ecuador from all claims and obligations after TexPet completed a US$40
million remediation program in 1998. In addition, the company maintains
that the state oil company should be the responsible party since it was the
majority partner in the consortium and has owned and operated the oil
ﬁelds exclusively for more than a decade. The trial commenced in October
2003, and no decision is expected before the end of 2004.

Spills
Our continued efforts to reduce oil and chemical spills in 2003 resulted in 
a signiﬁcant performance improvement from the previous year. The volume
of oil released in spills, equivalent to 26,540 barrels, fell by more than 50
percent, exceeding our year-over-year target of a 20 percent reduction. At
the same time, the number of petroleum spills fell from 1,502 incidents to
1,145, a reduction of 24 percent in a year. Less than 1 percent of the spilled
oil went to water and a little less than half of the total spilled volume was
recovered immediately. A single pipeline spill in Texas accounted for 10,871
barrels, or 41 percent of the 2003 total spill volume. This spill resulted from 
a mechanical failure of a small ﬁtting.  See chart 

n

In 2003, our chemical spill performance improved in terms of the number 
of spills, down to 28 from 75 the previous year, but the volume of chemicals
involved in the spills rose to 708 kilograms from 135 kilograms in 2002. 

Our North American upstream operations have been proactive in spill pre-
vention, holding their second annual Oil Spill Prevention Forum in 2003.
This forum, attended by more than 75 senior managers; operations staff;
engineers; and health, environment and safety professionals, focused on
the sharing and adoption of successful practices and technologies. Outside
North America, the company also has undertaken a concerted effort to im-
prove spill performance – and is seeing signiﬁcant positive results. For
example, in 2000, Saudi Arabian Texaco (SAT), together with its partners,
formed a team tasked with reducing oil spills. Between 1997 and 2003, 
SAT reduced the volume of oil spilled at the Wafra Field in the Partitioned
Neutral Zone by 95 percent and the number of spills by 67 percent. This
dramatic improvement was accomplished through an aggressive inspection
program using state-of-the-art techniques, including Magnetic Flux Leakage
and Guided Wave Ultrasonic detection to assess ﬂow-line conditions.

We remain committed to achieving world-class performance by 2006, 
which for us translates into a continued target of 20 percent year-over-year
reduction in volume of petroleum spilled.

m

Environmental, and Health and Safety Fines
and Settlements

Total paid (US$million)

Total number of ﬁnes

1999

0.94

792

2000

1.44

519

2001

0.95

388

2002

4.28

278

2003

4.69

470

1999–2000 data are Chevron. 2001–2003 data are ChevronTexaco.

n

Petroleum Spills

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

160,000

120,000

80,000

40,000

20 

Volume of spills 
(barrels)

164,686

34,460

54,834

54,696

26,540

Volume recovered 
(barrels)

–  –

–  – 

48,348

27,805

10,659

Number of spills

2,169

1,553

1,428

1,502

1,145

1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco. Prior to 2001, volume recovered was not
tracked at the corporate level.

“We recognize that many of the
issues of importance to our
company and our stakeholders
are long-term, and there is still
much to be done. I can assure
you that ChevronTexaco people
everywhere are committed to
continuing our work in these
areas and looking for new
solutions that will improve the
lives of people everywhere.”
Dave O’Reilly
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer

17

ChevronTexaco Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324

www.chevrontexaco.com

This report is printed using 
soy-based ink on Forest
Stewardship Council-certiﬁed
Monadnock Astrolite PC100,
which is composed of 100
percent post-consumer 
recycled paper and is proc-
essed chlorine-free.

© 2004 
ChevronTexaco Corporation
All rights reserved

913-0386A 25M 9/04

