2017  
corporate responsibility  
report highlights

for complete reporting, visit  
chevron.com/reporting

we are in the business of progress

At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global  
energy company most admired for its people, partnership  
and performance. We enable human progress by developing the  
energy that improves lives and powers the world forward.

read more  chevron.com/chevronway

Our business success is tied to the progress and prosperity 
of the communities where we work. Through our operations, 
we have created local jobs and developed local workforces. 
We also partner with more than 26,000 suppliers across  
the globe, such as Marine Platforms in Nigeria. There, we 
operate under a joint-venture arrangement with the Nigerian  
National Petroleum Corporation and other parties on proj- 

ects like Agbami. This year marks a decade of production 
from our Agbami Field, where we operate one of the world’s 
largest floating production, storage and offloading vessels.

On the cover: Offshore Subsea Engineer Emeka Njokanma and Marine  
Platforms’ Remotely Operated Vehicle Supervisor Olawale Okuntola 
work together on projects for Agbami. To learn more about our  
suppliers worldwide, see chevron.com/supplychain.

contents

  1  a message from our chairman and CEO
  2  chevron and the united nations SDGs
  4  governance and ethics
  6  employee engagement, diversity and inclusion
  8  managing operational risk
 10  preventing serious incidents and impacts
 12  addressing climate change
 14  protecting the environment and community health
 16  managing water resources
 18  respecting human rights
 20  creating prosperity
 24  performance data
 30  additional information

prioritizing issues  
for our reporting

Our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on environ-
mental, social and governance issues that matter to our 
business and our stakeholders—investors, customers, host 
governments, local communities and employees. We use a 
formal issue prioritization process to select the content  
for this report and the corporate responsibility section of 
chevron.com. 

A description of this process is available online at  
chevron.com/reporting.

a message from our chairman 
and chief executive officer

Over the past five years, we’ve invested $167 billion in goods 
and services around the world, which has created jobs, built 
businesses and strengthened local economies. In that same 
period, we’ve invested more than $1.1 billion globally in social 
investment partnerships and programs with a significant 
focus on health, education and economic development.

Across our operations, we support our workforce, our 
stakeholders, the communities where we operate and the 
environment by doing business the right and responsible 
way. We engage openly and often with stakeholders and 
stockholders to understand their perspectives on important  
environmental, social and governance issues, some of which  
we address in our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Highlights. This includes the work we’re doing to manage 
risk; operate safely and reliably; address climate change; 
protect the environment; respect human rights; and 
promote diversity and inclusion in our workforce.

Chevron appreciates that climate change is a concern to our 
stakeholders, as it is to people who invest in our company. 
We’ve published our second report detailing the framework  
we use to think about climate change issues. I invite you to  
read this year’s report—Climate Change Resilience: A Frame-
work for Decision Making at chevron.com/climatechange.

I believe that businesses can both contribute to society 
and be profitable, by delivering results that matter to 
stakeholders as well as stockholders. Throughout our long, 
distinguished history, we’ve always strived to enable  
progress and prosperity for people everywhere—and we 
always will. Enabling human progress is why we work.

Thank you for your interest in our company.

Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer
May 2018

For nearly 140 years, Chevron has been in the business  
of progress—providing the reliable, affordable and ever-
cleaner energy necessary to raise living standards for  
billions of people around the world.

Chevron takes great pride in our role in an industry  
responsible for the greatest advancements in economic 
development and human progress in recorded history.  
And we take seriously our responsibility to help meet the 
needs of people who aspire to a better quality of life.

To fulfill this responsibility, we are guided by The Chevron 
Way. Its vision, values and strategies guide us as we  
fulfill our purpose: enabling human progress by develop- 
ing the energy that improves lives and powers the  
world forward.

Energy is one of the world’s most complex industries. 
Delivering the energy of today in a socially and environ-
mentally responsible way while innovating the energy 
solutions of tomorrow requires a network of partners and 
relationships built on trust and integrity.

As described by the United Nations Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals, the world continues to strive for progress  
to benefit global societies. Chevron is contributing to this 
progress, working with business, government and nonprofit 
partners to help address stakeholder needs while creating 
value for our stockholders.

chevron.com/cr
1

Example location of Chevron’s 
contribution to the SDGs

Upstream exploration area

Upstream production

Downstream manufacturing 
facilities (refineries, chemicals)

Locations are approximate

17

6

13

4

3

3

contributing to the  
united nations sustainable 
development goals

Chevron is proud to contribute to the achievement of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our primary contribution is 
safely developing and delivering the affordable, reliable energy that is 
necessary for social and economic progress. 

We also contribute through our work in protecting people and the envi-
ronment and through our investments in health, education and economic 
development. Below are select examples of Chevron’s contributions 
around the world.

learn more  chevron.com/SDGs

Working with partners, we  
support initiatives that build 
local capacity and deliver 
lasting gains in the fight 
against devastating diseases. 
For example, we partner with 
Baylor College of Medicine 
International Pediatric AIDS 
Initiative at Texas Children’s 
Hospital to provide training 
and health care to medically 
underserved populations  
in Africa and Latin America.  
chevron.com/health

If people and communities  
are to thrive, education and job 
training are of critical impor-
tance. We partner around the 
globe to develop and support 
innovative programs—such as 
Emprered, in Venezuela—that 
invest in tomorrow’s workforce. 
Globally, Chevron has invested 
more than $400 million in 
education since 2013.  
chevron.com/education

Our operations promote  
the efficient use of water 
in water-constrained areas 
through conservation,  
reuse and recycling. In the 
Permian Basin, more than  
95 percent of the water used  
in our well completions is  
from brackish water sources.  
chevron.com/water

Chevron is a leader in supply-
ing liquefied natural gas (LNG), 
a relatively lower-carbon-
intensity fuel. Combined, our 
Gorgon and Wheatstone assets 
are expected to produce more 
than 24 million metric tons 
of LNG per year—enough to 
supply 16 percent of Japan’s 
electricity and reduce GHG 
emissions from power genera-
tion by around 11 percent if 
used in lieu of coal.  
chevron.com/australia

chevron.com/cr
2

17

8

3

17

3

7

17

17

15

15

7

Among Chevron’s most power-
ful tools for creating prosperity 
are our supply chain and 
workforce investments. Much 
of Chevron’s spending is on 
goods and services provided 
by locally owned companies. 
For example, in 2017, the 
Chevron-led Tengizchevroil 
joint venture spent more than 
$2.5 billion on Kazakhstani 
goods and services.  
chevron.com/
creatingprosperity

Chevron is a founding 
partner of The Environmental 
Partnership, a voluntary 
industry initiative led by the 
American Petroleum Institute 
with the goal of accelerating  
improvements to reduce 
methane and volatile organic 
compound emissions.  
For information on other 
actions we are taking, see 
our report Climate Change 
Resilience: A Framework  
for Decision Making.  
chevron.com/climatechange

We’ve been producing energy 
on Barrow Island for more  
than 50 years, and it remains 
one of Australia’s finest  
Class A Nature Reserves.  
We also promote and protect 
biodiversity through our  
global social investments,  
such as our Maratua 
Ecotourism for Sustainable 
Small Island program in  
East Kalimantan, Indonesia.  
chevron.com/biodiversity

Our partnership initiatives 
around the world strengthen 
local economies through  
programs that provide 
microloan services, support 
enterprise and workforce 
development, and improve 
education. Among these are 
the Niger Delta, Appalachia, 
Bangladesh and Thailand 
partnership initiatives. 
chevron.com/
creatingprosperity

chevron.com/cr
3

integrity and trust

getting results  
the right way

chevron is committed to  
strong governance and the highest  
standards of ethics

learn more  chevron.com/corporategovernance 

board diversity
different perspectives make  
our Board’s decision making and 
oversight more effective

40% overall diversity
(30% ethnically diverse)
(30% women)

At May 30, 2018

board of directors

Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s 
business and affairs. Among the many duties of the Board 
is oversight of Chevron’s policies and practices to ensure 
that appropriate risk management systems are employed 
throughout the company. It regularly considers critical  
risk topics as part of its deliberative decision-making 
process, and annually, as part of Chevron’s Enterprise Risk 
Management process, it reviews financial, operational, 
market, political and other risks inherent in our business. 

The Board has four standing committees, each composed 
solely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating 
and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public 
Policy. Each committee fulfills important responsibilities to 
help Chevron manage risks enterprisewide and compete 
more effectively to help build long-term stockholder value. 
For example, the Public Policy Committee assists the Board  
in fulfilling its oversight of risks that may arise in connec-
tion with the social, political, environmental, human rights 
and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business, including 
climate change.

The Executive Committee is a committee of corporate officers  
chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in 
managing the company’s business. To assist in discharging 
its duties, the Executive Committee has established five  

chevron.com/cr
4

environmental, safety, social and policy issues. Fostering 
long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder trust 
and goodwill is a core Chevron objective.

business ethics 

Strong financial results and a solid safety record were  
hallmarks of our company performance in 2017. These suc-
cesses were achieved through the demonstration of The 
Chevron Way behavior and a commitment to The Chevron 
Way values—diversity and inclusion, high performance, 
integrity and trust, partnership, and protecting people and 
the environment. It is on these values that the foundation  
of our company is built. Below are two examples of how  
we apply our core values to business decisions and position 
ourselves for success. For more, visit chevron.com/BCEC.

Antibribery
Bribery of any government official in any country is strictly 
against Chevron policy. Chevron requires that internal 
controls be in place and functioning and that accurate and 
complete transaction records be kept within the company.

Supplier expectations
Suppliers and contractors play vital roles in our success,  
and we rely heavily on them to help us deliver leading  
business results. We expect our suppliers and contractors  
to conduct their business in a manner that protects people 
and the environment and that complies with Chevron 
policies as well as all applicable laws and regulations.  
We expect our suppliers to treat their employees and to 
interact with communities in ways that respect human 
rights. Our standard language for procurement contracts 
includes a requirement for our suppliers and contractors to 
comply with applicable laws and keep accurate books and 
records. Where appropriate, our procurement contracts 
contain specific antibribery commitments. Through our 
Contractor Health, Environment and Safety Management 
process, we work with suppliers to increase accountability 
and improve performance.

additional resources
chevron.com/SCM

subcommittees that specialize in various matters  
important to the company. One such committee, the  
Global Issues Committee, oversees strategic corporate 
responsibility policy issues.

Director nomination process
An experienced, talented and diverse board is critical to 
Chevron’s success. In identifying Director nominees, the 
Board Nominating and Governance Committee utilizes a 
skills and qualifications matrix to maintain a balance of 
knowledge and experience across key dimensions. The 
committee particularly considers leadership experience; 
expertise in science, technology, engineering, research or 
academia; extensive knowledge of governmental, regula-
tory, legal or public policy issues; expertise in finance, 
financial disclosure or financial accounting; experience in 
global business or international affairs; and environmental  
experience. The committee considers other factors as  
appropriate to meet the current needs of the Board and  
the company. The Board seeks to achieve diversity of  
age, gender and ethnicity and recognizes the importance  
of Board refreshment, as demonstrated by our current 
average Board tenure of 4.3 years.

director skills and expertise
number of directors 
with relevant skills

CEO/senior exec./leader of significant business operations: 8

Science/technology/engineering/research/academia: 8 

Government/regulatory/legal/public policy: 8

Finance/financial disclosure/financial accounting: 10

Global business/international affairs: 9

Environmental: 7

At May 30, 2018

Governance
For Chevron, good corporate governance means having 
structures and processes in place to ensure that decisions 
and actions are in the best interests of our stockholders.  
It also means being responsive to our stockholders. Through 
our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance depart-
ments, we engage with many of our stockholders to discuss 
operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, 

chevron.com/cr
5

diversity and inclusion

valuing diversity  
and inclusion

we value the uniqueness  
and diversity of individual talents,  
experiences and ideas

learn more  chevron.com/diversity

33.7%

women and non-caucasian men  
represented at senior  
executive levels, globally

Above: Mike Wirth celebrates and promotes diversity with PJ Vaughn,  
Nicole Colley and Adelesan Olanrewaju at a black history awareness event  
in San Ramon, California.

chevron.com/cr
6

diversity and inclusion

Diversity and inclusion are cornerstones of The Chevron  
Way values. We believe that a diverse workforce and  
an inclusive culture strengthen business performance, drive 
innovation, increase employee engagement and lead us  
to greater long-term success. 

Reinforcing the inherent importance of diversity and  
inclusion to business performance, The Chevron Way 
advances diversity at all levels of the company. Many of  
our employees, including the CEO, have diversity action 
plans as part of their annual performance evaluations.

100%

In 2017, we achieved a  
score of 100 percent on the  
Human Rights Campaign  
Corporate Equality Index for  
the 13th consecutive year.

men advocating  
real change (MARC)

MARC is a Catalyst initiative created for and led by men and 
women in partnership to achieve gender equality through 
workplace inclusion. In 2017, the Chevron Women’s Network 
and now-CEO Mike Wirth brought MARC programming to  
Chevron, beginning with a pilot in Houston. Chevron’s MARC  
programming now includes more than 750 employees in seven  
Chevron locations globally, with additional growth planned.

developing a diverse talent pipeline

We focus on hiring the best and the brightest, both  
recent college graduates and candidates with experience. 
Through our University Partnerships Program, Chevron 
works with colleges and universities to help attract and 
develop the talented students and teachers needed for a 
technically proficient workforce. Chevron partners with 
more than 30 diversity-focused professional associations, 
provides scholarships to 120 or more diverse students every 
year, and has supported historically black colleges and 
universities for more than 40 years.

texas A&M–chevron  
engineering academies

Recognizing that many talented, diverse engineers get their 
start in community colleges, Chevron partners with Texas 
A&M to connect students from five community colleges  
to Texas A&M’s College of Engineering. Students accepted 
into the Texas A&M–Chevron Engineering Academies attend  
community college for two years, where core engineering 
courses are taught by A&M faculty, before transferring to 
Texas A&M College of Engineering for their final two years. 
Launched in 2015, the first class of Texas A&M–Chevron 
Engineering Academies is 45 percent female, 26 percent 
Hispanic and 19 percent black/African American. We are 
collaborating with other university partners to implement 
similar innovative programs in other parts of the country.

employee networks and diversity councils

In 2017, more than 19,000 employees—nearly 40 percent  
of our regular workforce—participated in Chevron’s  
employee networks that celebrate and promote diversity. 
These networks act as a resource for attracting and retaining 
talent and enhance Chevron’s reputation through com-
munity activities and outreach. They also provide formal 
mentoring programs and offer opportunities for skill build-
ing and career development. In addition, Chevron hosts 
more than 15 diversity councils across its business units and 
corporate functions that actively support Chevron’s strategic 
approach to diversity.

inclusion

To support business value, Chevron strives to provide an 
inclusive work environment, one in which each employee 
is valued and respected and all employees feel welcome to 
bring their full and authentic selves to work every day.  
Our strong corporate culture is reflected in the results of  
our most recent employee survey, which found a total  
employee engagement score of 90 percent—among the 
best in the oil and gas industry. In addition, 94 percent of 
employees surveyed reported that they “believe strongly 
in the goals and objectives of Chevron” and 93 percent 
reported being “proud to be a part of Chevron.”

additional resources
chevron.com/culture

chevron.com/cr

6

chevron.com/cr
7

protect people and the environment

managing  
operational risk

understanding high-consequence  
risks, implementing safeguards, and assuring  
safeguards are in place and functioning

learn more  chevron.com/OE

chevron operational  
excellence focus areas

Chevron’s updated Operational Excellence Manage- 
ment System (OEMS) establishes 35 expectations 
that are organized into six focus areas with support-
ing objectives.

workforce  
 safety 
and health

Eliminate fatalities, serious 
injuries and illnesses

process safety, 
reliability  
and integrity

Eliminate high-consequence 
process safety incidents  
and operate with industry-
leading reliability

environment

efficiency

Assess and manage signifi-
cant environmental risks

Use energy and  
resources efficiently

security

stakeholders

Prevent high-consequence 
security and  
cybersecurity incidents

Address OE business  
risks through stakeholder 
engagement and issues 
management

We strive to manage operational risk to eliminate  
high-consequence personal and process safety events.  
This means no fatalities or serious injuries and no fires,  
spills or explosions that can affect people or communities. 
To help achieve this objective, in 2017 we developed the  
first significant update to our OEMS since its deployment  
in 2004. 

operational excellence management system

Through application of our OEMS, we work to understand  
and recognize hazards and risks in each area of our 
operations, implement appropriate safeguards, and then 
assure that the safeguards are in place and functioning. 
Our updated OEMS incorporates more than a decade of 
learnings and increases our focus on our risk and assurance 
programs, all in support of our continued efforts to prevent 
high-consequence incidents and impacts.

Across our company, we’ve deepened the integration of  
risk management through our recently updated Operational 
Excellence (OE) Risk Management process. By applying 
this process, our business units consider a broad range of 
risks, including safety and health exposures, environmental 
issues, facility integrity, security of personnel and assets, 
and community and political issues. This evaluation includes 
assessing facility-, activity- and product-related risks across 
the life cycle of our business. 

Building on the culture established in The Chevron Way,  
we have also reemphasized the value of leadership as a 
critical success factor in achieving OE results. Leaders must 
cultivate and drive our OE culture through their values, 
competencies and behaviors. They are responsible for 
understanding and mitigating risks and maintaining and 
assuring safeguards for their business.

At Chevron, we apply and sustain a variety of safeguards 
that interrupt a cause-event-consequence sequence, such as  
alarms and pressure relief systems. We have developed 
assurance programs to monitor these safeguards through 
testing programs, maintenance inspections, operator routine  
duty results, and internal and external audits. These programs  
are designed to recognize signs of safeguard weaknesses 
and trigger actions to strengthen them.

additional resources
chevron.com/OEMS
chevron.com/healthsafety

Opposite: John Woodman and Sreejith Thekkeveedu perform  
ultrasonic testing to measure the thickness of a pipeline as part  
of our ongoing efforts to ensure safe, reliable operations.

chevron.com/cr
9

protect people and the environment

preventing  
serious incidents  
and impacts

everything we do begins with safe  
and reliable operations

learn more  chevron.com/healthsafety

We prepare for emergencies and natural disasters  
through asset inspections and site-specific response plans.  
In the case of an approaching hurricane, our personnel  
are safely evacuated and facilities like Jack/St. Malo  
are secured in such a way as to minimize the potential for  
damage to the environment and company property.

chevron.com/cr
10

We are focused on providing a safe and healthy work- 
place for our employees and contractors. Our highest  
priority is to eliminate fatalities and prevent serious injuries 
and illnesses.

personal safety

In 2017, we matched the record low for our Days Away  
From Work Rate (0.16) and set a new record low for our 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (0.13). Regrettably, we  
experienced six fatalities in our Upstream operations.  
These tragedies remind us of the inherent risk in our work 
and our commitment to never be satisfied until everyone  
in our workforce goes home safely every day. 

Building on our ongoing efforts to prevent high-consequence 
incidents and impacts, our Upstream segment recently com- 
pleted a comprehensive review of critical workforce safety 
processes and safeguards. A series of verification tools were 
deployed to reduce the rate of human error during high-risk 
work. These tools are patterned after the Essential Check-
lists tool used by our Downstream & Chemicals segment. 

We continued efforts to deploy industry-recognized  
Human Performance tools that decrease reliance on human 
actions as safeguards and reduce the risk of error. We 
also deployed an instructor training program, which has 
been adopted by several business units. For example, our 
Lubricants supply chain organization established learn-
ing teams to complete a review step after work has been 
completed. This step enabled the teams to determine which 
safeguards worked and which ones needed to be improved, 
as well as the modifications that were needed while the 
work was being performed.

process safety

Since the early 1990s, Chevron has taken a management  
system approach to addressing process safety risks. 
Through ongoing execution of our Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS), we have improved our 
personal and process safety performance to become an 
industry leader in several key areas. See Page 28 for our  
five-year health and safety performance data.

In our drive to achieve zero serious incidents and fatalities 
and attain world-class performance in process safety,  
we accomplished two key milestones in 2017. First, we com- 
bined OEMS expectations for process safety, reliability and  
integrity into a unified focus area to help integrate all aspects  
of process safety across the life of our assets. Second, we 
created a Complex Process Facilities organization to provide 
technical expertise, promote best practices and strengthen 
global organizational capability across all such facilities in 
both Upstream and Downstream.

chevron.com/cr
11

emergency  
preparedness and  
response

Chevron’s emergency management process 
addresses the safety of our workforce and the 
integrity of our assets. Regional crisis management  
committees (CMCs) composed of cross-functional 
experts report to our corporate CMC, and a robust 
emergency management community of practice 
contributes valuable input and learnings from 
around the globe.

Each regional CMC is responsible for having an 
emergency management plan in place for all 
high-risk scenarios involving Chevron facilities and 
operations, including potential natural disasters, 
such as hurricanes and earthquakes. 

These plans address three areas of preparation: 

•   Risk assessment and scenario development 
•   Business continuity, crisis management and 

response for all relevant scenarios

•   Assurance of safeguard effectiveness through 

regular exercises and drills

Hurricane Harvey 
In 2017, our emergency management process  
was tested by Hurricane Harvey, the strongest 
storm to hit Texas in 57 years. As the storm 
escalated, Chevron promptly activated CMCs to 
monitor status of employees and operations and 
initiated 25 business continuity plans across the 
company. These well-planned actions enabled 
the company to sustain operations and minimize 
impacts. Most important, Chevron experienced  
no serious injuries or fatalities among employees.

additional resources
chevron.com/healthsafety
chevron.com/emergencymanagement

protect people and the environment

addressing  
climate change

we believe that managing climate change risks  
is an important element of our strategic focus to return  
superior value to stockholders, and we take prudent,  
practical and cost-effective actions to address these risks

learn more  chevron.com/climatechange

the following four principles  
guide our actions and  
policy views on climate change:

1

Reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions is a  
global issue that requires  
global engagement  
and action.

2

Policies should be balanced 
and measured to ensure 
that long-term economic, 
environmental and energy 
security needs are all met; 
that costs are allocated  
in an equitable, gradual and  
predictable way; and that 
actions consider both GHG 
mitigation and climate 
change adaptation.

3

Continued research,  
innovation and application 
of technology are essential 
to enable significant and 
cost-effective mitigations  
to climate change risks  
over the long term.

4

The costs, risks, trade-offs 
and uncertainties associ-
ated with GHG reduction 
and climate change 
adaptation efforts must 
be transparent and openly 
communicated to global 
consumers.

chevron.com/cr
12

              
upstream methane intensity*

greenhouse gas management

0.18%

0.12%

0.06%

0%

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

 *Total Upstream methane emissions divided by total oil and gas production 
(metric tons/metric tons).

Direct (Scope 1), operated basis.

Our Upstream operations have reduced their methane  
intensity by 47 percent since 2013.

climate change 
resilience

a framework for decision making

continuing the conversation

Chevron strives to contribute to the ongoing conver-
sation about climate change. To that end, we issued 
the report Climate Change Resilience: A Framework 
for Decision Making in March 2018. In this report, we 
address Chevron’s governance, risk management  
and strategic decision making with respect to climate  
change. The report also highlights actions we are 
taking in the areas of energy efficiency, carbon cap- 
ture and storage, renewable energy, flaring reduction,  
methane emissions reductions, water resources 
management, and investment in the innovations and 
innovators of tomorrow.

We are addressing the GHG emissions in our operations  
and integrating GHG emissions management into the  
execution of our business activities. Below is a summary of 
recent activities to reduce our emissions.

Methane management
Methane from process emissions, vented sources and com-
bustion sources (including flares) accounted for 5.5 percent 
of Chevron’s total GHG emissions in 2017. Fugitive sources  
of methane comprised 1.6 percent.**

Chevron is a founding partner of The Environmental 
Partnership, led by the American Petroleum Institute.  
The partnership is an industry initiative with the goal of 
accelerating improvements to reduce methane and volatile 
organic compound emissions. The voluntary initiative, 
which launched in December 2017, includes more than 
25 operators. It will initially focus on reducing emissions 
associated with the removal of liquid buildup in wells; 
retrofitting high-bleed pneumatic controllers with low- or 
zero-emitting devices; and implementing the monitoring 
and repair of fugitive emissions.

Flaring reduction
In 2017, we reduced our enterprisewide flare gas volume 
rate by 18.7 percent, primarily due to improvements made in 
equipment reliability in our Australasia, Nigeria/Mid-Africa 
and Southern Africa Strategic business units. Since 2013, we 
have reduced flaring by 26.6 percent.

Energy efficiency
Chevron’s Pipeline & Power organization collaborates with 
the company’s Upstream and Downstream businesses to help 
lower their energy costs, test new technologies, achieve effi- 
ciency gains, manage emissions and improve power reliability.

Biofuels
Chevron is actively evaluating options for biomass proc-
essing as part of our transportation fuels businesses, 
particularly in California. To date, our work, as well as that  
of others, to produce second-generation biofuels that are 
economical at scale without subsidies has not been success-
ful. This included creating a joint venture with Weyerhaeuser, 
then the largest landowner in the United States, to try to 
commercialize cellulosic biofuels. We are exploring leverag-
ing our current manufacturing facilities to produce biofuels 
along with our traditional petroleum products.

See Pages 24–26 for climate-related  
performance data.

** Process emissions, vented sources, combustion sources and fugitive sources 

are defined by API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies 
for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2004, 2009); CO2-equivalent, direct 
(Scope 1), operated basis.

chevron.com/cr
13

protect people and the environment

protecting the 
environment and 
community health

we manage environmental and  
related community health  
risks across the life of our assets

learn more  chevron.com/environment

To support our Future Growth and Wellhead Pressure 
Management Project (FGP/WPMP) in Kazakhstan,  
we designed and implemented conservation actions 
that contribute to the protection and conservation  
of key habitats and species. This included the removal 
of more than 5 tons of abandoned fishing nets from 
beaches and cargo transport routes in the Bautino 
Harbor and the Seal Archipelago.

Protecting the environment and community health  
through responsible design, development, operations and 
asset retirement is the central purpose of environmental 
management at Chevron. We assess and manage our  
significant environmental and related community health 
risks and address potential acute and cumulative impacts 
of our operations through the implementation of our 
Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS).

The objectives of the Environment Focus Area of our OEMS  
are met, in part, through processes and standards estab- 
lished at the corporate and sector levels and are implemented  
by regional and local management. The processes and 
standards provide our business with the flexibility to focus 
on the risks and potential impacts to the environment and 
community health most salient to the specific locations 
where we operate.

community health

Air monitoring is one of the tools used to measure emissions 
and help the public better understand local air quality.

Community air monitoring program in California
Since 2013, our refinery in Richmond, California, has funded  
a community air monitoring program. The program, which  
is operated by independent expert Argos Scientific, pro-
vides real-time data 24 hours a day about air quality in the  
community. Data are collected and reported from three  
stations along the Richmond Refinery’s fence line and  
three neighborhood stations—North Richmond, Atchison 
Village and Point Richmond. Since the launch of the  
program, the air monitors have continuously tracked air 
quality. Results show that air quality in Richmond is on par 
with other Bay Area communities, including the city of  
San Francisco and Marin County.

biodiversity conservation

We recognize the importance of biodiversity conservation 
and support it through our values, performance, communi-
cation and engagement. 

Conservation actions in Kazakhstan 
To support our integrated FGP/WPMP in Kazakhstan,  
vessels will be traveling through the northeastern Caspian 
Sea to deliver cargo necessary for completion of the project. 
The northeastern Caspian is an area with high biodiversity 
value. We designed and implemented conservation actions 
that contribute to the protection of key habitats and species. 
For example, the endangered Caspian seal and five criti- 
cally endangered sturgeon species are present in the area.  

In partnership with government agencies and nongovern-
mental organizations, Chevron has worked to support the 
protection of these species, including by working with the 
Ural-Atyrau sturgeon hatchery to increase the wild sturgeon 
population and by removing abandoned fishing nets that 
can entangle seals and other marine fauna.

environmental  
management  
expectation

The Environmental Management Expectation of 
the updated OEMS Environment Focus Area calls 
for our organizations to: 

Protect the environment and community health 
using a risk-based approach that addresses  
potential acute and cumulative impacts. 

Apply environmental design standards and  
the mitigation hierarchy to guide selection of  
safeguards that: 

•   Prevent accidental releases 
•   Reduce air emissions
•   Conserve energy and reduce greenhouse gases
•   Manage wastes and wastewater, including those 

disposed of at third-party facilities

•    Conserve and protect water and natural resources*
•   Retire idle assets and reclaim impacted sites.

Conduct monitoring, analyze performance, and 
identify and address gaps.

 *Natural resources include land, water and biodiversity.

additional resources
chevron.com/OEMS
chevron.com/biodiversity

chevron.com/cr
15

protect people and the environment
protect people and the environment

managing  
water resources

chevron recognizes the value of water as a  
fundamental societal, environmental  
and economic resource and is committed to  
responsible water management

learn more  chevron.com/water

fresh water withdrawn

s
r
e
t
e
m
c
i
b
u
c
n
o

i
l
l
i

M

100

75

50

25

0

as a global company, we 
know that access to  
water is essential for the  
communities where we  
operate and for our business 

To produce energy around the world,  
we rely on access to sufficient sources of 
water, including both fresh water  
and water of lower quality.*

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Upstream

Reﬁning

Other

 *Water of lower quality could include: seawater; brackish groundwater or surface 
water; reclaimed wastewater from another municipal or industrial facility; 
desalinated water; or remediated groundwater used for industrial purposes.

Our Upstream operations have reduced their fresh  
water withdrawn by 39 percent since 2013.  
See Page 24 for more on Chevron’s water usage.

chevron.com/cr
16

 
 
water risk management

We have systems, processes and standards to manage this 
critical natural resource. The expectations in our updated 
Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) call for 
our organizations to conserve and protect water resources 
using a risk-based approach that addresses potential 
acute and cumulative impacts across the life of our assets. 
Organizations monitor and analyze performance to verify 
that the safeguards designed to conserve and protect  
water in water-constrained areas are in place.

Our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 
(ESHIA) process and our Upstream-specific Natural 
Resources Environmental Performance Standard (EPS)  
are two examples of how the water-related expectations  
of our OEMS are executed. Our Natural Resources EPS  
is applied across our onshore Upstream business and capital 
projects and calls for a water resources screening assess-
ment. Together with our ESHIA process, these tools help 
to identify potentially significant environmental and social 
impacts associated with our water use. The water resources 
screening assessment evaluates and helps us manage the 
following risks that may be associated with our water use:

•   Water availability
•   Competition for water resources
•   Impact of water withdrawal on source water quality  

or quantity

•   Sociopolitical risks
•  Regulatory restrictions

Where there is potential for significant impact, a water 
resources management plan (WRMP) is developed.  
The WRMP helps our operations identify and implement 
measures that reduce water withdrawals when possible.

promoting efficient use of water

Our operations promote the efficient use of water in water-
constrained areas through conservation, reuse and recycling.

Water-sharing agreements in Appalachia
Our operations in Appalachia have created partnerships  
with select local operators to engage in water-sharing 
agreements. These agreements facilitate reuse of our 
produced water** by other operators for their drilling and 
hydraulic fracturing activities. This practice has multifaceted 
benefits, including maximizing water recycling to offset 
freshwater demands and limiting disposal to injection wells. 

Since the execution of agreements in March 2017, Chevron 
Appalachia has shared approximately 21 million gallons  
of water.

Using brackish water in the Permian
In the Permian Basin, we use brackish water in lieu of fresh 
water when possible. More than 95 percent of the water 
used in our well completions in the Permian Basin is from 
brackish water sources.

water use in  
well completions  
permian basin

100%

75%

50%

25%

0%

Fresh water

Brackish water

2015

2016

2017

2018

Recycling industrial-used water in Singapore
In 2017, Singapore’s national water agency awarded the 
Singapore Refining Company (SRC)*** the inaugural Water 
Efficiency Award in the Refining category for its efforts in 
water recycling. The SRC built a recycling plant that further 
manages treated wastewater that would otherwise be dis- 
charged to the sea. The plant uses ceramic microfiltration 
and reverse osmosis, removing suspended solids, oil, grease 
and other contaminants from the used water. Water from 
the new plant meets both industrial and potable water 
specifications and is recycled back to the refinery’s boiler 
feed water. The plant currently meets approximately  
20 percent of the SRC’s water demand.

Fresh

Brackish

additional resources
chevron.com/waterpositionstatement

** Water that is brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas.

** *A 50 percent–owned joint venture.

chevron.com/cr
17

integrity and trust

respecting  
human rights

we respect the rights of our community  
members, the workers in our supply  
chain, our employees and other rights holders  
who may be affected by our operations

learn more  chevron.com/humanrights

Guided by The Chevron Way, we conduct our business  
in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, 
respecting the law and universal human rights to benefit  
the communities where we work. Our approach to human  
rights is informed by the United Nations Guiding Prin- 
ciples on Business and Human Rights.

Below are some of the enterprisewide policies, processes 
and procedures that embed our Human Rights Policy in  
the way we operate.

labor relations policy 

Chevron’s enterprisewide labor relations policy is con- 
sistent with the International Labour Organization’s core 
labor principles concerning freedom of association and 
collective bargaining. If Chevron employees choose union 
representation, a Works Council or labor organization  
representation, Chevron’s policy is to attempt to establish  
a positive, cooperative business relationship with the 
certified representative of choice. We seek to adopt labor 
relations strategies that foster cooperation, open com-
munication, and both employee and union participation in 
meeting the goals of the company. Our business units are 
expected to make labor relations decisions consistent  
with The Chevron Way, the business unit’s strategies and 
business plans, and local government regulations.

addressing potential community impacts 

We recognize that our operations have the potential to 
affect the well-being of the communities in which we work. 
That is why Chevron’s Operational Excellence Management 
System includes an Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment (ESHIA) process, which applies to capital 
projects within Chevron’s operational control. The ESHIA 
process provides a systematic and risk-based approach to 
identifying, assessing and managing potentially significant 
impacts, including human rights–related issues. 

The assessments consider potential impacts our activities 
may have on surrounding communities, natural resources, air 
quality, and community health and livelihoods. They incor- 
porate human rights due diligence to help the company con-
sider how to safeguard the rights and interests of potentially 
affected communities. Obtaining input from communities 
and partners is central to the ESHIA process and occurs 
throughout a project’s life cycle. If further assessment is 
needed, Chevron teams can conduct more detailed Human 
Rights Impact Assessments.

When potential issues related to resettlement of com-
munities or engagement with indigenous peoples are 
identified, Chevron’s Resettlement Guidance and Indigenous 
Peoples Guidance provide our business units with a road 
map for how to navigate those situations in a manner that 
respects potentially affected rights holders. Our Grievance 
Mechanism Guidance and existing operational-level griev-
ance mechanisms enable our business units to identify and 
respond to community concerns that may call for remedy.

chevron.com/cr
18

Above: Chevron is Colombia’s largest producer of natural gas,  
and much of it comes from La Guajira, home to the indigenous 
Wayúu people. Chevron supports the concept of free, prior  
and informed consultation as part of our work engaging stake-
holders to foster trust and build relationships.

our supplier  
expectations

We expect our suppliers to adhere to the 
International Labour Organization’s Declaration  
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.  
That means we expect our suppliers to have policies 
and practices in place that allow their employees 
freedom of association and that protect against 
forced labor, child labor and workplace discrimi-
nation. We seek to implement this expectation 
through a variety of due diligence and performance 
management processes that we apply to current 
and potential suppliers. For example, in 2017, we 
disqualified two companies competing for a contract 
after learning of forced labor in their operations.

20,000+

Chevron launched human  
rights training in 2012.  
Since then, the training has  
been taken more than  
20,000 times.

additional resources
chevron.com/hrsupplierletter

chevron.com/cr
19

partnership

creating  
prosperity

we are committed to running our business  
the right way and unlocking potential  
for progress within the communities where we  
operate—we call this the business of progress

learn more  chevron.com/creatingprosperity

$167 billion

in total goods and  
services spent globally  
in the past five years

In the United States in 2017, we spent 
approximately $600 million with woman- and 
minority-owned businesses and more than 
$1.5 billion on goods and services from small 
businesses. See Page 26 for further informa-
tion on our goods and services spending.

Above: John Page with NTC Contracting provides earthmoving and civil 
works services to Chevron’s Wheatstone asset. Due to this partnership,  
NTC has increased its capabilities, improved its health, environment and 
safety standards, and expanded its local workforce from about 30 to 
more than 120 during peak construction.

chevron.com/cr
20

Bringing our products to global markets generates  
direct benefits for the communities in which we operate.  
Chevron seeks to increase opportunities for these  
community members to earn a livelihood through local 
workforce development and hiring initiatives as well  
as supplier development and contracting programs.  
Through our strategic social investments, we also partner 
with communities to support fundamental economic  
development, education and health programs that contrib-
ute to our mutual success.

building local capacity

Chevron’s supply chain and workforce investments are 
among our most powerful tools for creating prosperity.  
We spent more than $24 billion in total goods and services 
in 2017, much of it going to locally owned companies in  
the communities where we operate. With that often comes  
a further investment of our time and technical capabil- 
ities to help build the capacity of these local businesses,  
enabling them to win future work with us and other com- 
panies. Our investments can help these local businesses 
grow, creating new jobs and bringing more resources into 
the local community. 

Other direct investments benefiting the communities in 
which we work are our workforce development and job 
training initiatives. We strive to hire locally as much as pos-
sible, which often means helping develop the skills of the 
local labor force. In 2017, 95 percent of Chevron employees 
worked in their home country.

25,000+

kazakhstanis employed

In 2017, more than 25,000 Kazakhstanis  
worked on Chevron’s Future Growth  
and Wellhead Pressure Management Project,  
the newest megaproject in Chevron’s  
portfolio and the next phase of expansion for  
the Tengiz Field. To learn more, visit  
chevron.com/worldwide/kazakhstan.

local economic impact

Chevron contributes to local communities by creating jobs,  
developing and sourcing from local suppliers, and employing  
local workforces. This helps build local economies and 
improve livelihoods.

richmond, california

In 2016, Chevron spent $183 million with suppliers from 
western Contra Costa County, California, where the 
Richmond Refinery is located, bringing contracts with  
local suppliers to $485 million from 2012 through 2016.  
The refinery has a special focus on providing opportunities 
for small, minority-owned and woman-owned businesses.  
In 2016, the refinery spent $62 million on such businesses  
in the Bay Area and $86.5 million overall. In the nine  
Bay Area counties, 79 small businesses provided the  
refinery with services, of which 14 were woman-owned,  
five minority-owned and four veteran-owned. To learn 
more, read our case study at chevron.com/crcasestudies.

Above: Sandra Escalante is the president and CEO of Laner  
Electric Supply, a certified small, woman-, minority- and LGBT- 
owned business. Clients include Chevron’s Richmond Refinery  
and the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency.

australia

Chevron’s Wheatstone asset is one of Australia’s largest 
resource developments. Since 2009, we have awarded 
more than 300 contracts to Australian companies, spending 
$15 billion on local goods and services. To learn more, visit 
chevron.com/australia.

chevron.com/cr
21

$1.1 billion

in global social investments  
over the past five years

social investment

Chevron makes strategic social investments that focus  
on education, health and better access to economic  
development. By partnering with host governments,  
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and public and  
private international organizations, we believe we can 
achieve common goals and improve the quality of life in  
the communities where we work.

Economic development
We work with local partners to support projects that focus 
on removing barriers to economic development to help  
ease the cycle of poverty, improving the capacity of civil 
society institutions, and empowering businesses, workers 
and their families. 

In Venezuela, we created the Emprered program in partner-
ship with Centro al Servicio de la Acción Popular–Banauge, 
a local NGO that provides microloans to small businesses. 
Over the past 10 years, Emprered has trained an average of 
1,100 people annually in planning, marketing, finance and 
other skills needed to create a successful business. Chevron 
also sponsors the Empremujer Award to encourage women 
entrepreneurs to develop and implement business ideas.

Above: In 2017 in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, 20 local women  
were each given a Holland Holstein calf, feed and a training course  
on how to raise her cow. This program, which is part of our overall 
contribution to economic development in the region, provides the 
women with financial resources and a unique skill set.

Left: In Nigeria, Peer Health Educators (PHEs) discuss health issues 
and how they can help their colleagues overcome them. Chevron has 
394 PHEs in Nigeria, Angola, London and Indonesia.

chevron.com/cr
22

bangladesh  
partnership initiative

In 2014, Chevron announced a commitment to create 
the Bangladesh Partnership Initiative (BPI), a multiyear 
program to support economic development for com-
munities in the Greater Sylhet region. By working with 
international development organizations, the BPI assesses 
local needs and establishes enterprise and workforce 
development programs. One program, the Uttoron Project, 
enrolled 475 local youths in vocational training, of whom 
80 percent graduated and were placed in jobs. BPI’s Jibika 
Project is enhancing quality of life for about 18,000 people 
by promoting entrepreneurship and training. Chevron’s  
BPI commitment is one of the largest corporate social 
investments ever made in Bangladesh.

Health
Chevron invests in programs aimed at improving health  
to unlock potential progress and prosperity in the com-
munities where we operate. We bring together the people, 
resources and expertise to deliver meaningful change.

When public health issues put employee productivity and 
community well-being at risk, it is a business issue that 
demands action. One way we promote the health of our 
workforce is through peer-based education programs. 
Peer Health Educators (PHEs) are well-trained, motivated 
employees who volunteer time to provide their peers with 
health-related education and activities. PHEs are trained 
to address personal health holistically and can engage the 
workforce and their communities to increase awareness of 
personal health and its impact on safety and productivity.

Education 
We believe our support for education helps whole commu-
nities prosper and gives everyone partnership in the process. 
We bring together the people, resources and expertise to 
develop innovative programs that invest in tomorrow’s work- 
 force by educating students, training teachers, providing  
classroom resources and preparing workers to excel in their  
jobs through workforce training. We do this because a trained  
workforce is needed to build our business, raise awareness 
of opportunities for youth, and give back in communities 
where we work. 

In 2011, Chevron Australia recognized the need to build its 
talent pipeline to help increase Aboriginal employment. 
We launched the Education to Employment (E2E) pathway, 
working with the Aboriginal community, schools, univer-
sities and employment pathway providers to help develop 
the skills to commence a rewarding career. Since its launch, 
more than 160 Aboriginal Australians have participated in 
the E2E pathway initiative, and Aboriginal employment  
with in Chevron Australia has increased from four employees 
in 2010 to 63 at year-end 2017.

volunteerism and giving

273,700+

U.S. volunteer hours

In the United States, Chevron encourages employee  
and retiree volunteerism and giving through 
Chevron Humankind. In 2017, 8,010 employees and 
retirees contributed 273,715 volunteer hours to  
2,349 charitable organizations in the United States, 
and a total of $33.1 million was contributed to  
U.S. nonprofit organizations through a combination 
of employee and retiree giving and company- 
matching funds.

natural disasters

In 2017, more than $5 million was directed to dis-
aster relief and recovery efforts in British Columbia, 
Texas, Florida, California, Mexico and Puerto Rico 
through contributions made by Chevron and the 
Chevron Global Community Fund.

Above: Stan Cross and other employees partnered with Houston 
Habitat for Humanity to build new homes after Hurricane Harvey.

additional resources
chevron.com/creatingprosperityvideo
chevron.com/culture

chevron.com/cr
23

high performance

performance  
data

These tables include our quantitative  
environmental, safety and social performance  
data. For complete reporting, including  
performance data, visit chevron.com/reporting.

Environmental performance 1 

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

Accidental release prevention and response

Petroleum spills to land and water 
(volume in thousand barrels) 2 

Total volume recovered

Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills) 2

Spills of significance (number of spills) 3

Natural resources – water

Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 4

Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters) 4

Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 4

Wastewater

3.4

3.1

59

13

74

73

41

Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water (parts per million) 5

Upstream

Refining

8

1

Total amount of oil discharged to surface water (thousand metric tons) 5

0.7

0.3

62

7

80

79

36

9

1

0.8

0.6

63

14

78

77

43

10

1

0.8

0.4

79

2.1

1.4

133

85

93

41

37

9

1

10

2

Upstream

Refining

0.9

0.04

1.2

0.04

1.3

0.04

1.3

0.05

1.3

0.08

footnotes are on Pages 29–30

chevron.com/cr
24

Environmental performance ,1 continued

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

Greenhouse gas

Equity basis

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), equity basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8 

GHG emissions from imported electricity and  
steam (Scope 2), equity basis (million metric tons  
of CO2-equivalent) 6, 8

GHG emissions from exported electricity and steam, 
equity basis (a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric  
tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 8

GHG emissions from third-party use of our products,  
equity basis (a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric  
tons of CO2) 6, 9

Operated basis

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8

GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam  
(Scope 2), operated basis (million metric tons of  
CO2-equivalent) 6, 8

Methane emissions, direct, operated basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 8

Upstream GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated  
basis (metric tons of CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels  
of oil-equivalent production) 8

Upstream direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated  
basis (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 8

Refining GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated  
basis (metric tons of CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels  
of crude oil and other refinery feed) 8

Refining direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 8

Average flare gas volume rate, direct, operated basis 
(million standard cubic feet per day) 10

Energy efficiency

Total energy consumption, operated assets and non- 
operated joint venture refineries (trillion BTUs) 11

Total energy consumption, operated assets

Total energy consumption, operated assets and non- 
operated joint venture refineries (million gigajoules) 11

Total energy consumption, operated assets

56

58

58

56

57

4

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

5

376

364

368

358

363

63

64

66

66

69

5

4

31

45

36

15

6

6

33

45

36

15

6

6

34

47

35

15

6

6

34

47

37

15

6

7

36

52

38

15

508

625

615

563

692

809

654

854

690

830

671

876

708

865

711

913

750

920

744

970

785

881

697

929

735

Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) (no units) 11

85.0

84.6

85.2

87.6

88.8

Upstream Energy Intensity (thousand BTUs per barrel  
of oil-equivalent) 11

303

308

330

341

344

chevron.com/cr

24

chevron.com/cr
25

footnotes are on Pages 29–30

Environmental performance ,1 continued

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

Energy efficiency, continued

Pipeline Energy Intensity (BTUs per barrel of oil- 
equivalent-mile) 11

Shipping Energy Intensity (BTUs per metric ton–mile) 11

Non-Manufacturing Energy Index (Oronite, Lubricants, etc.)  
(no units) 11

Air emissions

Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted  
(thousand metric tons) 12

Total sulfur oxides (SOx) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12

Total nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12

Waste

Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons) 13

Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons) 13

Hazardous waste recycled (million metric tons) 13

Fines and settlements

Number of environmental, health and safety fines paid and 
settlements entered into, equity basis 14

Cost of environmental, health and safety fines paid and 
settlements entered into, equity basis (millions of dollars) 14

13

39

77

200

56

159

0.4

0.3

0.1

20

43

75

147

66

148

0.6

0.4

0.3

24

32

79

144

84

148

0.7

0.3

0.4

29

49

86

134

112

138

1.0

0.8

0.1

31

51

82

147

141

147

0.9

0.8

0.1

101

102

135

292

284

$40.5

$6.7

$3.9

$57.1

$119.2

Supply chain 15, 16

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

Total goods and services spending (billions of dollars)

$24.8

$27.3

$35.8

$40.9

$38.8

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based  
businesses (billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based small  
businesses (billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based  
woman- and minority-owned businesses (billions of dollars)

$11.2

$10.7

$13.5

$15.4

$15.3

$1.6

$1.7

$2.1

$2.3

$2.4

$0.6

$0.5

$0.7

$0.9

$0.9

footnotes are on Pages 29–30

chevron.com/cr
26

Global employee diversity 17

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

Number of regular employees at year-end

48,596

51,953

58,178

61,456

61,345

Number of service station employees at year-end

3,298

3,248

3,316

3,259

3,205

Number of U.S. employees at year-end

22,048

23,418

26,448

28,666

28,974

Percent U.S. employees represented by unions

Percent women in total workforce 

Percent women represented at mid-level and above

Percent women and non-Caucasian men represented at  
senior executive levels

Percent employees working in their home country

Percent workforce in North America

Percent workforce in Asia-Pacific

Percent workforce in Africa

Percent workforce in Europe/Middle East

Percent workforce in South America

U.S. Equal Employment  
Opportunity Commission statistics 17

Percent minorities among total employees

Percent women among total employees

Percent minorities among executives and senior managers

Percent minorities among first- and mid-level managers

Percent women among executives and senior managers

Percent women among first- and mid-level managers

Percent minorities among professionals (women and men)

Percent women among professionals

11

25

16

34

95

44

28

14

8

3

11

24

15

31

94

45

28

14

7

4

10

24

14

31

93

45

29

13

7

4

10

25

14

31

92

46

29

13

6

4

10

24

13

30

91

46

29

13

6

4

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

39

30

16

32

19

29

35

33

38

30

13

30

18

29

35

33

37

30

13

29

17

28

35

33

36

30

12

29

16

29

34

32

36

29

12

27

16

28 

33

32

chevron.com/cr

26

chevron.com/cr
27

footnotes are on Pages 29–30

Health and safety performance 18

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

Total Recordable Incident Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

0.13

0.26

0.09

0.23

0.15

0.28

0.14

0.26

0.10

0.24

0.16

0.27

0.18

0.23

0.10

0.24

0.20

0.22

Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees20

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Days Away From Work Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees 20

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Number of work-related fatalities

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

0.09

0.25

0.08

0.28

0.10

0.23

0.016

0.048

0.012

0.054

0.018

0.045

6

2

4

0.10

0.28

0.10

0.32

0.11

0.25

0.017

0.051

0.018

0.063

0.016

0.044

10

1

9

0.10

0.28

0.10

0.38

0.10

0.23

0.019

0.054

0.020

0.075

0.018

0.044

3

0

3

Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Contractors

1.32

0.85

1.77

1.17

2.03

2.23

0.82

2.44

0.51

0.63

0.00

0.67

0.18

0.33

0.10

0.28

0.21

0.36

0.11

0.36

0.06

0.39

0.12

0.35

0.021

0.070

0.011

0.077

0.023

0.067

3

0

3

0.49

0.78

0.00

0.63

0.21

0.35

0.15

0.29

0.23

0.38

0.13

0.38

0.14

0.42

0.12

0.36

0.020

0.072

0.026

0.083

0.018

0.067

16

2

14

2.71

1.84

1.44

3.11

Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with 
employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)

1.32

0.81

0.51

0.49

1.02

Motor Vehicle Crash Rate  
(workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven) 21

Number of process safety Tier 1 events  
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance) 22, 23

Upstream

Downstream and chemicals

Midstream

0.04

0.03

0.02

0.04

0.04

22

14

7

1

22

16

6

0

29

18

10

1

19

15

3

1

36

22

10

4

footnotes are on Pages 29–30

chevron.com/cr
28

notes to pages 24 through 28

  1  This section reflects 2017 data collected as of April 13, 2018.  

All data are reported on an operated basis, unless otherwise noted. 

associated with electricity and steam that Chevron exports to third 
parties and emissions from third-party use of our products.

  2  Chevron reports petroleum spills to land and water to conform to 
the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance. Spills to land and water  
that are greater than or equal to one barrel are included. Spills to 
secondary containment and chemical spills are excluded.

  7  Direct GHG emissions related to production of energy in the form  
of electricity or steam exported or sold to a third party have  
been included in the reported Scope 1 emissions to conform to the 
2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance.

  Of the 3.4 thousand barrels of petroleum spilled to land and water, 
1.9 were spilled as a result of events outside Chevron’s operational 
control, such as sabotage.

  8  2017 direct GHG emissions, on both an equity and operated basis, 
decreased primarily due to reductions in flaring and asset divest-
ments. Refer to Page 13 of this report for additional information. 

  3  The 13 spills of significance that Chevron experienced in 2017 

ranged in size from 0.01 to 1.7 thousand barrels. Of the 5.3 thousand 
barrels spilled in total, 4.8 were spilled to secondary containment.

  Corrections were made to the number of spills of significance 
reported for 2015 and 2016.

  For purposes of conforming to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, 
Chevron defines a spill of significance as a process safety Tier 1 
loss-of-primary containment (LOPC) event (as defined by American 
National Standards Institute/American Petroleum Institute [ANSI/
API] Recommended Practice [RP] 754) with a consequence of a 
release of material greater than the threshold quantities described 
in Table 1 of ANSI/API RP 754 in any one-hour period. Spills to  
secondary containment, regardless of actual environmental impact, 
are included, as are chemical spills. Releases to air are excluded.

  4  Fresh water withdrawn totals decreased in 2017 (relative to prior 
years) in part due to leaks that were repaired and asset divest-
ments. In addition, our operations in the Permian Basin continued 
their transition to the use of brackish water in lieu of fresh water for 
well completions. This transition contributed to an enterprisewide 
decrease in fresh water withdrawn and an increase in nonfresh 
water withdrawn, as drilling activities increased in 2017. Refer to 
Page 17 of this report for additional information.

  2016 fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed and nonfresh 
water withdrawn have been restated to reflect additional informa-
tion that was received after the 2016 Corporate Responsibility 
Report was published.

  Produced water is excluded from fresh water withdrawn, fresh  
water consumed and nonfresh water withdrawn.

  Fresh water withdrawn from the environment is defined per local 
legal definitions. If no local definition exists, fresh water is defined 
as water extracted, directly or indirectly, from surface water, 
groundwater or rainwater that has a total dissolved solids con- 
centration of less than or equal to 2,000 mg/L. Fresh water  
withdrawn does not include effluent or recycled/reclaimed water 
from municipal or other industrial wastewater treatment systems,  
as this water is reported under nonfresh water withdrawn.

  Nonfresh water withdrawn could include: seawater; brackish 
groundwater or surface water; reclaimed wastewater from another 
municipal or industrial facility; desalinated water; or remediated 
groundwater used for industrial purposes.

  5  Oil concentration is determined by the sampling of effluent  

streams, using methods required or recommended by regulatory 
agencies or authorities, where applicable. Chevron reports the  
total cumulative amount of oil discharged to surface water exclud-
ing spills, which are reported separately.

  6  The World Resources Institute/World Business Council for 

Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard defines three “scopes”  
that Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. Scope 1 includes  
direct emissions from sources within a facility. Scope 2 includes 
indirect emissions from electricity and steam that Chevron imports. 
Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions. Chevron reports 
information related to two types of Scope 3 emissions: emissions 

  Methane emissions decreased in 2017 due to a change in calculation 
methodology in our Thailand operations and asset divestments. 

  Refinements were made in the data reporting for 2015 and 2016 
equity and operated GHG emissions.

  All six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous 
oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydrofluoro-
carbons—are included in Chevron’s Scope 1 emissions. CO2, CH4  
and N2O are accounted for in Chevron’s Scope 2 emissions and in  
Chevron’s Scope 3 emissions related to the electricity and steam 
that Chevron exports to third parties. 

  The following entities are not currently included in the 2017 
Chevron corporate GHG inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., 
the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, a polyethylene pipe plant and a 
valve plant in Kazakhstan, and other nonoperated assets in which 
Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent or less. Emissions from 
the Wheatstone asset have been included in the inventory where 
Chevron has operational control, as defined by Australia’s National 
Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007.

  Information regarding GHG emissions from Chevron Phillips 
Chemical Company LLC can be found at cpchem.com.

  Additional GHG emissions data can be found at chevron.com/
ghgmanagement.

  9  Chevron calculated emissions from third-party use of our products  
by multiplying total 2017 Upstream liquids and gas production 
by emissions factors from API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry 
(2004, 2009).

 10  The 2017 enterprisewide flare gas volume rate decreased due to 

improvements made in equipment reliability and lower production 
in our IndoAsia business unit.

  The 2016 average flare gas volume rate has been restated to  
correct an error.

  In 2017, 15 percent of Chevron’s total direct (Scope 1), operated  
GHG emissions were from process emissions and vented  
sources, as defined by API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry 
(2004, 2009).

 11  Total energy consumption and intensity decreased primarily  

due to asset divestments and four cogeneration plants that were 
not operating in 2017. 

  The 2016 energy data have been restated to correct an error  
and account for additional information that was received after  
the publication of the 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report.

  Refining energy performance is measured by the Manufacturing 
Energy Index (MEI), which is calculated using the Solomon Energy 
Intensity Index methodology. MEI includes operated assets and  
nonoperated joint venture refineries.

  Energy performance for Oronite, Lubricants, Americas Products 
and International Products is measured by the Non-Manufacturing 
Energy Index, which is the energy required to produce Chevron 
products compared to the energy that would have been required to 
produce the same products in 1992 (the index’s base year).

chevron.com/cr

28

chevron.com/cr
29

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
notes to  
pages 24 through  
28, continued 

 12  VOC and NOx emissions increased in 2017 due to the startup of 

major capital projects. SOx emissions decreased due to reductions 
in flaring and refinements made in data collection processes.

  Refinements were made in the data reporting for 2016 NOx and 
VOC emissions.

  For compiling and reporting air emissions data, Chevron follows 
regulatory definitions of VOC. SOx emissions include SO2 and SO3, 
reported as SO2-equivalent. NOx emissions include NO and NO2 
(reported as NO2-equivalent) and exclude N2O.

  Additional air emissions data can be found at chevron.com/air.

 13  Hazardous waste generated, disposed of and recycled decreased  
due to differences in the types of activities conducted by our  
operations in 2017.

  To conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, and where 
appropriate information and data exist, our hazardous waste  
numbers starting in 2015 exclude remediation waste generated,  
disposed of and recycled.

  Hazardous waste amounts are quantified using methods required 
or recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where 
applicable. In other instances, similar methods are used, including 
direct measurement onsite or at the point of shipping, engineering 
estimates, and process knowledge. Chevron follows the regulatory 
definitions of hazardous waste applicable to the jurisdictions  
in which we operate, including de minimis specifications (below  
which hazardous waste quantities do not need to be reported).

14   Data are based on information that was received from the regula-
tory agency and recorded internally prior to the publication of  
this report.

15   This section reflects data collected as of March 19, 2018.

 16  Historical data have been restated to exclude spending that is  

ultimately shared with our partners.

 17  Global Employee Diversity data and data from the U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission have been rounded to  
the nearest integer for 2017 and previous years.

 18  This section reflects Chevron data collected as of March 12, 2018.

 19  Health and safety performance rates include both injury- and 
illness-related incidents. The API’s Benchmarking Survey of 
Occupational Injuries, Illnesses and Fatalities in the Petroleum 
Industry data are used as industry benchmarks.

 20 The 2016 Lost-Time Incident Frequency and Days Away From  

Work Rates were revised due to two incidents reclassified as Days 
Away From Work incidents.

 21  Data include catastrophic and major incidents only. 

 22  Process safety Tier 1 (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled 
releases resulting in consequences equivalent to those specified 
by ANSI/API RP 754 and International Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) 
Report 456: Process Safety Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators.

 23  2013 Tier 1 event count was revised based on revision of the fire  

cost threshold to align with industry guidelines.

forward-looking statements warning

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING 
INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS 
OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This report contains forward-looking statements relating to 
Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current 
expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemi-
cals and other energy-related industries. Words or phrases such as 
“anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “forecasts,” 
“projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,” “positions,” 
“pursues,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “budgets,” “outlook,” “trends,” 
“guidance,” “focus,” “on schedule,” “on track,” “is slated,” “goals,” 
“objectives,” “strategies,” “opportunities” and similar expressions 
are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These 
statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject 
to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are 
beyond the company’s control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, 
actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is 
expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The 
reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking 
statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Unless 
legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new informa-
tion, future events or otherwise.

Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those in the forward-looking statements are: changing 
crude oil and natural gas prices; changing refining, marketing and 
chemicals margins; the company’s ability to realize anticipated cost 
savings and expenditure reductions; actions of competitors or regula-
tors; timing of exploration expenses; timing of crude oil liftings; the 
competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; 
technological developments; the results of operations and financial 
condition of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners and equity 
affiliates, particularly during extended periods of low prices for crude 
oil and natural gas; the inability or failure of the company’s joint-
venture partners to fund their share of operations and development 
activities; the potential failure to achieve expected net production 
from existing and future crude oil and natural gas development 
projects; potential delays in the development, construction or start-
up of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of 
the company’s operations due to war, accidents, political events, 
civil unrest, severe weather, cyber threats, terrorist acts, crude oil 
production quotas or other actions that might be imposed by the 
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or other natural or 
human causes beyond its control; changing economic, regulatory and 
political environments in the various countries in which the company 
operates; general domestic and international economic and political 
conditions; the potential liability for remedial actions or assessments 
under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; 
significant operational, investment or product changes required by 
existing or future environmental statutes and regulations, including 
international agreements and national or regional legislation and 
regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions; the 
potential liability resulting from other pending or future litigation; the 
company’s future acquisition or disposition of assets or shares or the 
delay or failure of such transactions to close based on required closing 
conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions 
or impairments; government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitali-
zations, industry-specific taxes, changes in fiscal terms or restrictions 
on scope of company operations; foreign currency movements com-
pared with the U.S. dollar; material reductions in corporate liquidity 
and access to debt markets; the impact of the 2017 U.S. tax legislation 
on the company’s future results; the effects of changed accounting 
rules under generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by 
rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to identify and mitigate the 
risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy industry; 
and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” on Pages 
19 through 23 of Chevron’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other 
unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could 
also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.

chevron.com/cr
30

 
 
 
 
 
LRQA Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate  
Responsibility Report for the Calendar Year 2017

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in 
accordance with our contract, but is intended for the readers of this Report.

Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by 
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide 
independent assurance on its processes used in the creation of the  
Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for calendar year 2017 to a reason-
able level using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:

•   Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health,  
environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.

•   Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry 

guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) industry guidelines. 

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data 
and information reported in the CRR.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LRQA disclaims any liability or 
responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s  
management was responsible for preparing the CRR and for maintaining 
effective internal controls over the reporting processes and CRR. LRQA’s 
responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting 
processes in accordance with our contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the  
CRR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Chevron.

LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting proc-
esses were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for 
assessing corporate performance and reporting information consistent 
with common reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas 
industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level  
of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment of  
the Verifier. 

LRQA’s Approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our 
Verification procedure; the following tasks were undertaken as part of  
the evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement:

•   Visiting Chevron Corporation in San Ramon, California, to review  

data collection and checking processes. Reviewing Chevron Upstream  
and Midstream and Chevron Downstream & Chemicals to assess  
business-unit understanding and implementation of Chevron’s HES  
reporting requirements.

•   Visiting Deepwater Exploration and Projects in Houston, Texas; Chevron 
Pipe Line Company in Houston, Texas; and the Salt Lake Refinery in  
Utah to assess local understanding and implementation of Chevron’s 
HES reporting requirements.

•   Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of 

Chevron’s reporting requirements, including key persons responsible  
for drafting the CRR.

•   Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate 

consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of 
the HES performance indicators.

•   Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the 

reporting processes.

•   Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry 

guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance  
engagement, are:

•   Processes were in place to ensure that personnel contributing to HES 
metrics understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.

•   Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly 

defined and communicated.

•   Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood  

and carried out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels 
were checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics.

•   Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 

was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.

LRQA’s Competence and Independence
LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based  
on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all  
verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed  
by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous 
and transparent.

LRQA is one of Chevron’s certification bodies for ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 
and greenhouse gas emissions verification. The certification assessments 
and verification are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron and as 
such do not compromise our independence or impartiality. 

Andrea M. Bockrath
LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
March 27, 2018

LRQA Reference: UQA4000679

 Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective 
officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no respon-
sibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document 
or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or 
advice, and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 

This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2018. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.

chevron.com/cr

30

chevron.com/cr
31

 
about this report

Additional  
environmental, social  
and governance reporting 
can be found at  
chevron.com/reporting

This report covers our owned and operated businesses 
and does not address the performance or operations  
of our suppliers, contractors and partners unless other-
wise noted. All financial information is presented in  
U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

This report contains forward-looking statements 
relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to 
conduct certain of its activities, based on management’s 
current plans and expectations. These statements are 
not promises or guarantees of future conduct or policy 
and are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other 
factors, many of which are beyond our control, includ-
ing government regulation and oil and gas prices. See 
Forward-Looking Statements Warning on Page 30.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including 
the development, implementation or continuation of 
any program, policy or initiative discussed or forecasted 
in this report, may differ materially in the future. As with 
any projections or estimates, actual results or numbers 
may vary. Many of the standards and metrics used in 
preparing this report continue to evolve and are based 
on management assumptions believed to be reasonable  
at the time of preparation, but should not be considered 
guarantees. The statements of intention in this report 
speak only as of the date of this report. Chevron under-
takes no obligation to publicly update any statements 
in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such 
terms as “the company,” “the corporation,” “their,” 
“our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may refer to one or more of 
Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all 
of them taken as a whole. All of these terms are used 
for convenience only and are not intended as a precise 
description of any of the separate entities, each of 
which manages its own affairs.

Chevron Corporation
Policy, Government and Public Affairs
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road  
Building G
San Ramon, CA 94583

chevron.com/cr
32

select 2017 memberships  
and associations

American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers*

American Petroleum Institute*

Business for Social Responsibility

Business Roundtable

Center for Responsible Shale Development

Consumer Energy Alliance*

Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative

International Association of Oil & Gas Producers

IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for  
environmental and social issues

National Association of Manufacturers*

United States Chamber of Commerce*

Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights

Western States Petroleum Association*

*Chevron’s 2017 corporate-level trade association memberships with dues  
paid of more than $500,000, where dues may be used for lobbying.

chevron.com/cr

32

Editor and writer Marian Macindoe Production manager Paige Gilbreath Millard 
Photography advisor Nikita Taimni Copy editor Joan D. Saunders 

Photo credits Cover, 8, 20, 21 and 23: Marc Marriott; 1: Eric Myer; 6: John Wright; 10: Wayne Hargrave Jr.;  
14: C.J. Kassenberg; 19: David F. Parra; 22: Marc Marriott, C.J. Kassenberg

learn more

This report and additional content can be  
found at chevron.com/publications. For our complete  
reporting, visit chevron.com/reporting.

If you are interested in learning more or 
continuing the conversation, we welcome you to  
engage with us on social media.

facebook.com/chevron

youtube.com/chevron

linkedin.com/company/chevron

@chevroncr

@chevroncr

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council®–certified  
Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-consumer waste.  
It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are  
expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel, New York

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

© 2018 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386O (5-18) (5M)

