2016 
corporate responsibility 
report highlights

for complete reporting, visit 
chevron.com/reporting

we develop the energy 
that improves lives and powers 
the world forward

The Chevron Way values are the foundation upon which our 
company is built. These values distinguish us and guide our actions to 
deliver results. We conduct our business in a socially and 
environmentally responsible manner, respecting the law and universal 
human rights to benefit the communities where we work.

Our values are: diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and 
trust, partnership, and protect people and the environment.

read more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/chevronway

contents

the business of progress

Operating responsibly
Prioritizing issues for our reporting
Governance and ethics
Managing risk
Preventing serious incidents and impacts
Addressing climate change risks
Advancing environmental stewardship

2 
4 
5 
6 
8 
10 
14 
16  Managing water resources
18 
20 
24 
30 

 Respecting human rights
Creating prosperity
Performance data
Additional information

Everywhere we work, we commit to running our business 
the right way, and we strive to build relationships and 
make investments that unlock the potential for progress 
and prosperity. We are committed to developing energy 
ethically and responsibly in ways that support and protect 
our people, the communities where we work and the 
environment around us. WellSafe and other programs in 
our Upstream business help assure that well and reservoir 
ﬂ uids are under control and not released and help us 
achieve our goal of zero signiﬁ cant incidents. See Page 9 
for a description of Chevron’s WellSafe program.

On the cover: Kenneth Sell, Appalachian Mountain water super-
visor, inspects equipment at a well site producing natural gas from 
shale formations in Pennsylvania’s Appalachian Basin. 

a message from our chairman and  
chief executive officer

we systematically investigate “near miss” events that had 
the potential to cause serious injuries or loss of containment 
and develop appropriate mitigations. Every member of our 
workforce is empowered with Stop-Work Authority—the 
right and responsibility to halt any potentially unsafe activity,  
without repercussion. Learn more about this on Page 8 of 
this report.

In addition, Chevron is working to manage greenhouse gas 
emissions and potential risks related to climate change.  
This includes investments in flare reduction, carbon dioxide 
injection and improved energy efficiency. Details are pro-
vided on Pages 10–13 and in our report on Managing Climate 
Change Risks at chevron.com/climateriskperspective. 

We know our business success is directly tied to the 
progress and prosperity of the communities in which we 
operate. In providing oil and natural gas, we create local jobs 
and develop local workforces. We develop supply chains 
by enhancing local suppliers’ capabilities to meet industry 
standards. In 2016, we spent $39 billion on goods and serv-
ices globally.

Beyond direct business investments and taxes, we unlock the  
potential for progress in these communities through social 
investments that focus on what we see as three crucial pillars:  
health, education and economic development. Last year,  
we made more than $185 million in such social investments.

Our investments in health supported partnerships and 
programs that promote healthy communities by improving 
access to health care, strengthening health systems and 
helping fight against infectious diseases. Our investments 
in education were directed toward inspiring young people 
to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and 
math—or STEM—a key building block of employability  
and economic development. Our investments in economic 
development promote self-sufficiency and job growth.

These are just some of the ways in which we demonstrate 
our commitment to responsible development of energy 
resources. The 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Highlights provides additional details, illustrating our com-
mitment to developing energy ethically and responsibly.  
Thank you for your interest in Chevron.

May 2017

John S. Watson
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer

For over 138 years, we have provided affordable, reliable 
energy that creates economic opportunity and improves 
lives. Our business success is driven by our people and  
their commitment to getting results the right way. The  
2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights is a 
summary of how we address safety and the environmental, 
social and governance issues that matter to our business 
and stakeholders.

The foundation of how we operate is The Chevron Way, 
which explains who we are, what we believe, how we 
achieve and where we aspire to go. It defines our values, 
which distinguish us from our competitors and make  
us the partner of choice. 

One of these values is to protect people and the environ-
ment. We demonstrate this value in a variety of ways, 
including through our commitment to human rights, which  
is embedded in our safety culture and participation in  
international human rights initiatives. 

The principles of “do it safely or not at all” and “there is 
always time to do it right” underpin how we conduct our 
work. As part of our continuous improvement process,  

chevron.com/cr
1

Corporate responsibility highlight

Downstream reﬁ nery

Downstream major chemical 
manufacturing facility

Upstream exploration area

Upstream production

Locations are approximate.

Mississippi

Texas

operating 
responsibly

our business success is driven 
by our people and their commitment 
to getting results the right way

From Upstream exploration and production to Midstream 
transportation, power and trading to Downstream 
manufacturing and retail, each of our businesses works in concert 
across virtually every facet of the energy industry.

Texas In the Permian Basin, we use 
brackish water in lieu of fresh water, when 
possible. More than 90 percent of the 
water used in our well completions in the 
Permian is from brackish water sources. 
See Page 17.

Mississippi In 2016, we performed a 
successful turnaround at our Pascagoula 
Reﬁ nery Fluidized Catalytic Cracking 
Unit that was completed with no ﬂ aring 
during shutdown, unit cleanup or unit 
startup. See Page 15.

Angola On the Cabinda coastline of Angola, 
we developed and applied a Land Manage-
ment Plan prior to execution of our Malongo 
Dock Project to prevent any potential impact 
on the sea turtle nesting season, which 
includes three diff erent species that nest 
along the Malongo beach. Learn more about 
Chevron in Angola at chevron.com/angola.

chevron.com/cr
2

Kazakhstan

Japan

Angola

Australia

guided by the chevron way

Guided by The Chevron Way, we operate responsibly, 
execute with excellence and conduct our business in a socially 
and environmentally responsible manner, respecting 
the law and universal human rights to beneﬁ t the communities 
where we work. Below are corporate responsibility examples 
from just a few of our locations around the world.

Kazakhstan During the largest-ever 
planned maintenance program at 
our Tengizchevroil joint venture, we had 
zero Days Away From Work injuries 
among 8,800 workers over a 40-day 
period. See Page 9.

Japan To support Chevron’s growing 
position, the company expanded its 
ﬂ eet of technologically advanced lique-
ﬁ ed natural gas carriers to safely and 
reliably deliver cargoes to customers 
in Japan and elsewhere. Learn more at 
chevron.com/shipping.

Australia The Gorgon Project involves 
the design, construction and operation of 
facilities to reduce the project’s annual 
greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 
4 million metric tons per year. See Page 13.

chevron.com/cr
3

Midcontinent drill site managers Thomas Wilder 
and Kristina Sanclemente oversee drilling operations 
in Midland, Texas. 

prioritizing issues for our reporting

Our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on environ-
mental, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter 
to our business and our stakeholders—investors, customers, 
host governments, local communities and employees. 
To select the content for our 2016 Corporate Responsibility 
Report Highlights and the corporate responsibility section 
of chevron.com, we used an issue prioritization process 
that involved the following steps:

Step 1: A team of employees from across functions and 
business segments identiﬁ ed and validated ESG topics 
that are salient to our stakeholders and our business, using 
the outcome from our 2015 issue prioritization process 
as a basis. The team considered internal and external 
sources, including international reporting guidelines and 
frameworks, ESG analytics, topics addressed in previous 
Corporate Responsibility Reports, feedback received on 
the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights, media 
analysis, industry peer reviews, and learnings from a range 
of internal and external stakeholder engagements.

Step 2: The team conducted an initial prioritization of 
ESG issues based on relevance to our business.

Step 3: The team sought feedback on the initial prioritiza-
tion of issues through dialogues with internal subject matter 
experts and external stakeholders.

Step 4: The team determined the issues that are of highest 
priority for our reporting.

Step 5: Chevron’s Global Issues Committee, a subcommittee 
of Chevron’s Executive Committee, reviewed and validated 
the team’s assessment and prioritization. We discuss the 
issues of highest priority in this report or on our website.

Our prioritized issues reﬂ ect topics covered in the 2015 
edition of the IPIECA/API/IOGP* Oil and gas industry 
guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. For 2016, 
Chevron reported on all 34 indicators. An IPIECA/API/IOGP 
content index is available on Page 30 of this report and 
at chevron.com/IPIECA.

 * *IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental 
and social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association 
of Oil & Gas Producers.

chevron.com/cr
4

integrity and trust

delivering results 
the right way

guided by the chevron way, our 
board is committed to strong governance 
and the highest standard of ethics

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/corporategovernance 

board of directors

governance

For Chevron, good corporate governance means having 
structures and processes in place to ensure that decisions 
and actions are in the best interests of our stockholders. 
It also means being responsive to our stockholders. Through 
our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance depart-
ments, we engage with many of our stockholders to discuss 
operational, ﬁ nancial, governance, executive compensation, 
environmental, safety, social and policy issues. Fostering 
long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder trust 
and goodwill is a core Chevron objective.

business ethics 

Diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and trust, 
partnership, and protecting people and the environment 
are all core values of The Chevron Way that underpin our 
business conduct. We believe that when we apply our ethical 
principles to our business decisions, the company is posi-
tioned for success. We expect our suppliers and contractors 
to conduct their business in a manner that protects people 
and the environment and that complies with all applicable 
Chevron policies and with applicable environmental, health 
and safety laws and regulations. For more, see our Business 
Conduct and Ethics Code and Business Conduct and 
Ethics Expectations for Suppliers and Contractors, both 
available on chevron.com.

Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s 
business and aff airs. Among the many duties of the 
Board is oversight of Chevron’s risk management policies 
and practices to ensure that appropriate risk manage-
ment systems are employed throughout the company. 
It regularly considers critical risk topics as part of its 
deliberative decision-making process, and annually, as 
part of Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process, 
it reviews ﬁ nancial, operational, market, political and 
other risks inherent in our business. 

The Board has four standing committees, each composed 
solely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating 
and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public 
Policy. Each committee fulﬁ lls important responsibilities 
to help Chevron manage risks enterprisewide and compete 
more eff ectively to help build long-term stockholder 
value. The Public Policy Committee assists the Board in 
fulﬁ lling its oversight of risks that may arise in connection 
with the social, political, environmental, human rights 
and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business.

director nomination process

An ethical, knowledgeable and diverse board is critical to 
Chevron’s success. In identifying Director nominees, the 
Board strives to maintain a balance of individuals with 
business acumen, broad experience and expertise at the 
policy-making level in various areas, including science, 
technology, engineering, research or academia, and 
environmental aff airs; with extensive knowledge of gov-
ernmental, regulatory, legal or public policy issues; and 
with expertise in ﬁ nance, global business or international 
aff airs. The Board also seeks to achieve diversity of age, 
gender and ethnicity.

chevron.com/cr
5

protect people and the environment

managing risk

we place the highest priority 
on the health and safety of our workforce 
and protection of our assets, 
communities and the environment

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/OE

Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process pro-
vides corporate oversight for identifying major risks to the 
company and ensuring that mitigation plans are in place. The 
ERM process includes an annual risk review with executive 
management and the Board of Directors that identiﬁ es 
ﬁ nancial, operational, market, political and other risks inher-
ent in our business. Critical among these is operational risk.

We believe that incidents are preventable, and we have 
policies, expectations, processes and tools in place to help 
achieve our goal of zero serious incidents. Our systems 
support a culture of safety, environmental stewardship and 
top performance in which risk management, assurance and 
learning are foundational. We call this Operational Excellence 
(OE), and it is fundamental to all of our operations.

Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 
provides a disciplined approach to systematically manage 
process safety, personal safety and health, the environment, 
reliability, and effi  ciency. Through rigorous application 
of the OEMS, we are able to identify and mitigate risks by 
integrating OE processes, standards, procedures and 
behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS is aligned 
with ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007.* Chevron also 
maps its process safety eff orts to the Center for Chemical 
Process Safety’s Vision 20-20 guidelines.

Management is accountable for running the OEMS to deliver 
results the right way, in accordance with our Chevron Way 
values. Leadership is the single most important factor for 
success in OE. Leaders at every level manage risk, drive 
execution, reinforce our OE culture and instill operational 
discipline to ensure that everyone in their organization 
complies with OE requirements. 

Underscoring our eff orts to manage risk, we have an OE 
Assurance process that applies across all of our operations, 
including work conducted by contractors. This process 
serves a dual purpose: (1) it establishes systems to assure 
that the company maintains compliance with internal and 
external requirements; and (2) it establishes systems of 
veriﬁ cations to demonstrate that safeguards are in place and 
functioning when they are most needed, thereby reducing 
the risk of incidents. These veriﬁ cations may include a 
combination of audits, inspections and routine duties.

We adopt and share best practices with our business and 
industry partners and continually take action to improve our 
practices and meet our commitments. In 2016, we contin-
ued to emphasize our focus on serious incident and fatality 
prevention as our most important priority.

 * * Attestation: In 2015, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. attested that 
our OEMS meets the requirements of the International Organization for 
Standardization’s environmental management system standard and the 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series’ management system 
specification and verified that the OEMS is implemented throughout 
the corporation.

managing 
contractor health, 
environment 
and safety

Contractors are a critical part of the Chevron work-
force. On any given day, we may have more than 
177,000 contractors on the job, complementing 
our employee base of approximately 52,000.

Chevron’s Contractor Health, Environment and 
Safety Management (CHESM) process estab-
lishes clear accountabilities and facilitates active 
engagement with contractors to help keep 
them, and our entire workforce, safe.

The CHESM process helps us:

•   Select contractors that are qualiﬁ ed for speciﬁ c 

work activities; 

•   Share Chevron Health, Environment and Safety 

(HES) standards with contractors;

•   Communicate clear HES performance expecta-

tions to contractors; and

•   Engage with our contractors as work progresses 

to conﬁ rm our joint commitments to safe 
work standards and continuous improvement 
in HES performance.

additional resources
chevron.com/OEMS
chevron.com/healthsafety

Opposite: Contractor surveyor Yerlan Kussainov determines 
the location for key infrastructure at the Future Growth Project–
Wellhead Pressure Management Project in Kazakhstan.

chevron.com/cr
7

protect people and the environment

preventing 
serious incidents 
and impacts

everything we do begins 
with a commitment to 
safe and reliable operations

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/healthsafety

stop-work authority

Every person involved in our operations—
employee, contractor and business partner alike—
is empowered to stop work any time there 
is concern that work conditions are unsafe and 
any time an unsafe act has occurred or is 
about to occur. We call this Stop-Work Authority, 
and it is a responsibility that is exercised 
without repercussion.

Above: At our Richmond Reﬁ nery in California, process engineers 
Nicole Fannin and Thomas Lee review Chevron’s Preventing Serious 
Injuries and Fatalities Field Guide, a quick-reference handbook 
to help personnel involved in critical activities identify and control 
the potential hazards unique to each activity and job.

chevron.com/cr
8

personal safety

In 2016, we set record lows in our Days Away From Work 
Rate (0.016) and Total Recordable Incident Rate (0.14). 
The largest-ever planned maintenance program at our 
Tengizchevroil joint venture was perhaps the greatest 
singular achievement in personal safety for the year, with 
zero Days Away From Work injuries among 8,800 workers 
over a 40-day period.

Overshadowing our otherwise strong performance were 
10 fatalities (nine contractors, one employee) that resulted 
from four incidents. One of the incidents—a helicopter 
crash off  the coast of Angola—accounted for six of the lives 
lost. Any loss of life is unacceptable to us, and we are deter-
mined to eliminate fatalities throughout our operations.

process safety

Chevron continues to improve performance in preventing 
incidents that result in a loss of primary containment, 
including petroleum spills and vapor releases. Programs 
like WellSafe in our Upstream business and Essential 
Checklists in our Downstream and Chemicals (DS&C) 
operations support our eff orts to achieve zero signiﬁ cant 
incidents and fatalities.

In DS&C, Essential Checklists pinpoint key tasks that 
must be completed the right way every time for potential 
high-consequence activities, such as vacuum truck 
operations and conﬁ ned-space entry. These key tasks are 
veriﬁ ed by a co-worker who conﬁ rms in the ﬁ eld that we 
have safeguards in place and functioning immediately 
before work begins. Our manufacturing facilities and some 
of our complex Upstream plants use this same method 
of safeguard veriﬁ cation.

Across all of our operations, we seek to learn from past 
incidents and to improve our procedures, training, 
maintenance programs and designs. We share lessons 
learned throughout the company and with industry 
organizations, such as the American Petroleum Institute 
and the Center for Chemical Process Safety.

maintaining 
well 
control

Chevron has developed and implemented 
WellSafe, a program to assure well and reservoir 
ﬂ uids are under control and not released, poten-
tially impacting people and the environment. 
The program applies to all drilling operations and 
those completion and workover operations that 
are under the operational control of Chevron’s 
Drilling and Completions (D&C) organization. 

WellSafe requires four levels of certiﬁ cation. 
Each certiﬁ cation has speciﬁ c requirements, or 
safeguards, that must be met: 

•   Business Unit Certiﬁ cation is focused on 

having technical standards in place. 

•   Rig Certiﬁ cation requires that the proper 

equipment and procedures are utilized and 
that competent personnel are on the rig sites.

•   Well Design Certiﬁ cation is attained when 

the well plans have been veriﬁ ed to conform 
to the business unit’s technical standards.
•   Well Execution Certiﬁ cation occurs when 

the well operations are veriﬁ ed to have been 
performed in adherence with the certiﬁ ed 
well design.

Chevron’s Upstream Capability D&C Assurance 
group is responsible for verifying that all business 
units achieve and maintain their certiﬁ cations.

Please refer to Page 25 for an in-depth look 
at our health and safety performance data.

chevron.com/cr
9

protect people and the environment

addressing climate 
change risks

we take prudent, practical and cost-eff ective actions 
to address climate change risks as part of 
our commitment to running our business the right 
way and to unlocking the potential for 
progress and prosperity everywhere we work

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/climatechange

climate principles

Our climate change policy principles guide us in 
evaluating approaches to addressing climate change.

1

Reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions is 
a global issue that requires 
global engagement 
and action.

2

3

4

Balanced and measured 
policies can ensure 
that long-term economic, 
environmental and energy 
security needs are met; 
costs are allocated equitably, 
gradually and predictably; 
and actions consider both 
GHG mitigation and climate 
change adaptation.

The costs, risks, trade-off s 
and uncertainties associated 
with GHG reduction and 
climate change adaptation 
eff orts and policies must 
be transparent and 
openly communicated to 
global consumers.

Continued research, 
innovation and application 
of technology are essential 
to enable signiﬁ cant and 
cost-eff ective mitigations to 
climate change risks over 
the long term.

chevron.com/cr
10

climate risk management and disclosure 

Chevron believes that climate change is a global issue. 
We share the concerns of governments and the public about 
climate change risks and recognize that the use of fossil 
fuels to meet the world’s energy needs contributes to the 
rising concentration of greenhouse gases in Earth’s atmos-
phere. GHGs contribute to increases in global temperatures. 
We take prudent, practical and cost-eff ective actions to 
address climate change risks as part of our commitment to 
running our business the right way.

Reliable and aff ordable energy is necessary for improving 
standards of living, expanding the middle class and lifting 
people out of poverty. Oil and natural gas will continue to 
fulﬁ ll a signiﬁ cant portion of global energy demand for 
decades to come—even in a carbon-constrained scenario.

Even under an 
aggressive climate policy 
scenario such as 
the IEA’s 450 Scenario, 
oil and natural gas 
will meet 44 percent 
of global energy 
demand by 2040.

managing risk

Chevron utilizes a number of processes to 
manage risk, including risks that may be 
associated with climate change. These include 
Enterprise Risk Management, Strategic and 
Business Planning, Portfolio Management, and 
assessments of commodity pricing.

•   Chevron uses an internal outlook of carbon 

prices in the economic evaluations supporting 
major capital project appropriation approvals.

•   We use a risk-based approach to address pos-

sible physical impacts to our critical infrastructure.

•   We continually refresh our portfolio taking 

into account our views of future market and 
regulatory conditions. Chevron has the ability 
to adjust investment patterns, and portfolio 
composition will reﬂ ect the evolving nature of 
possible demand and regulatory changes.

In view of the continuing global demand for 
oil and gas, the substantial future investment 
required to meet that demand, and the way 
investment decisions to explore for and develop 
resources are phased and made with a market 
view in mind, the risk exposure to the company 
in a GHG-restricted scenario is minimal.

Chevron has analyzed the impacts of supply, demand 
and resultant pricing levels under a reduced-demand/
GHG-constrained scenario, including consideration of the 
International Energy Agency (IEA) 450 Scenario. This 
analysis has shown:

•   The pricing levels modeled for the IEA 450 Scenario 

generally align with the low end of the price trajectory 
range already being used throughout our various 
planning processes. 

•   Although certain high-cost assets around the world 

could be impacted by a hypothetical GHG-constrained 
case, those high-cost assets for which a ﬁ nal investment 
decision has yet to be made would not ﬁ nd a place in 
our investment portfolio given our risk management 
processes. Lower-cost assets remain competitive, 
speciﬁ cally, those assets already producing, which 
would continue to produce.

We have undertaken a number of steps to manage GHGs, 
including investments in ﬂ are reduction, investments in CO2 
injection, improved energy effi  ciency and activity in biofuels. 

We believe that our current risk management and busi-
ness planning processes are suffi  cient to mitigate the risks 
associated with climate change. These processes are 
appropriate to enable us to continue to monitor and adjust 
accordingly as climate policy developments unfold.

For more, see our report Managing Climate 
Change Risks: A Perspective for Investors 
at chevron.com/climateriskperspective.

chevron.com/cr
11

2016 GHG emissions by sector*
66 million metric tons

Transportation

Reﬁ ning

Power
Other

Upstream

Transportation includes Chevron Pipe Line Company and Chevron Shipping 
Company. Power includes Chevron Power and Energy Management Company. 
Other includes Americas Products, International Products, Chevron Lubricants, 
Chevron Oronite Company, Chevron Building and Real Estate Services, 
Chevron Aviation Services, Chevron Environmental Management Company, 
and Chevron Information Technology Company.

2016 GHG emissions by type*
66 million metric tons

Methane

Other

C02

greenhouse gas management

We are committed to managing our GHG emissions by 
improving energy effi  ciency, reducing ﬂ aring and venting, 
and ﬁ xing methane leaks when they occur. We are also 
investing in two of the world’s largest carbon dioxide injec-
tion projects.

We are addressing the GHG emissions in our operations 
and integrating GHG emissions management into the execu-
tion of our business activities. Further, we maintain and 
report inventories of our emissions, undertake projects to 
manage operating emissions, and apply innovative technol-
ogies to improve the energy effi  ciency of our operations. 
We also assess the GHG emissions of our capital projects. 
When developing and approving major capital projects, we 
estimate a project’s incremental emissions proﬁ le, assess the 
potential ﬁ nancial impact of GHG regulations and examine 
the emissions reduction options. 

Across our operations, the primary sources of our GHG 
emissions are combustion of fuels and, in some locations, 
ﬂ aring and venting of the natural gas (methane) that is 
extracted along with crude oil.

Methane
Methane accounts for approximately 9 percent of Chevron’s 
total greenhouse gas emissions.* Approximately one-quarter 
of Chevron’s enterprisewide methane emissions are consid-
ered fugitive emissions; of the remaining emissions, most 
are generated by ﬂ aring and venting.

It is in Chevron’s business interest to minimize fugitive 
methane and to maximize the volume of natural gas that 
we can commercialize. We design, construct and operate 
our facilities with an eye toward reducing emissions 
from our operations. We also have design requirements 
to reduce or minimize fugitive emissions from our new 
major capital projects. We monitor and verify the integrity 
of our wells and production equipment with regular 
inspections and safety tests. We have formal programs 
in a number of locations to inspect our facilities for leaks. 
To more effi  ciently track fugitive emissions, we use infrared 
cameras in select oil and gas operations around the globe 
to help pinpoint leak locations so that we can address 
them. In many locations where we operate, we implement 
procedures to comply with regulatory requirements per-
taining to leak detection and repair.

 *CO2-equivalent, direct (Scope 1), operated basis.

chevron.com/cr
12

2016 GHG emissions by source*
66 million metric tons

Other

Venting

Flaring

Combustion

Above: The power generation and transmission facility 
at Duri Field, Sumatra, Indonesia, has been a focus of energy 
effi  ciency improvements in our IndoAsia business unit.

Carbon dioxide injection
Chevron Australia’s Gorgon Project incorporates facil-
ities to safely inject reservoir carbon dioxide more than 
1.2 miles (2 km) below the surface of Barrow Island. Carbon 
dioxide occurs naturally in the gas being produced and is 
extracted as a routine part of the processing operations. 
In most gas processing plants, these gases are vented 
to the atmosphere. When fully operational, it is anticipated 
that greenhouse gas emissions from the Gorgon Project 
will be reduced by up to 4 million metric tons per year, or 
100 million metric tons over the life of the project. 

In Alberta, Canada, Chevron is a co-venture partner of 
the Quest Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) project—
the ﬁ rst CCS project in the Canadian oil sands. This innova-
tive project is designed to capture and safely store more 
than a million metric tons of carbon dioxide each year—
equivalent to taking 250,000 cars off  the road annually. 
Commercial operations at the Quest CCS project began in 
November 2015.

Venting and ﬂ aring
Chevron ﬂ ares and vents natural gas for safety and opera-
tional purposes and in areas where pipelines or other gas 
transportation infrastructure and utilization alternatives 
do not exist. We are working to reduce natural gas ﬂ aring 
and venting and the resulting GHG emissions. We have 
developed internal country-speciﬁ c plans to minimize gas 
ﬂ aring, and we are a member of the World Bank–led Global 
Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership. Since 2008, activities 
carried out by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation/
Chevron Nigeria Limited joint venture have reduced routine 
gas ﬂ aring by more than 90 percent in the Niger Delta. We 
have also made signiﬁ cant progress in reducing ﬂ are gas 
volumes in Angola through the execution of various projects. 
For example, our Nemba Enhanced Secondary Recovery 
Project reduced ﬂ aring at the South and North Nemba ﬁ elds 
by almost 34 million standard cubic feet per day in 2016. 
In total, ﬂ are gas volume rates in Angola have been reduced 
by more than 50 percent since 2012. 

energy efficiency

Using energy more effi  ciently helps preserve our ﬁ nite natural 
resources, lower energy costs and reduce carbon emissions. 

Reduction in energy intensity in IndoAsia business unit 
Due to the size and nature of the operations, managing 
energy consumption in our IndoAsia business unit 
(IBU) is a critical focus area. The IBU continues to make 
signiﬁ cant improvements in energy effi  ciency and has 
reduced its energy intensity by 27 percent from 2014 to 
2016. This improvement was achieved in part through the 
establishment of an Integrated Optimization Decision 
Support Center (IODSC) in the IBU’s Sumatra opera-
tions in Indonesia. The IODSC monitors the day-to-day 
energy performance of the surface facilities and provides 
recommendations for optimizing energy effi  ciency.

additional resources
chevron.com/GHGmanagement
chevron.com/energyeffi  ciency

Please refer to Pages 26 and 27 for data on 
GHG emissions and energy consumption.

chevron.com/cr
13

protect people and the environment

advancing 
environmental 
stewardship

we conduct our business in a socially and 
environmentally responsible manner, respecting 
the law and universal human rights to 
beneﬁ t the communities where we work

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/environment

Our Natural Resources Environmental Performance Standard 
helps us consider and address potential impacts on species 
such as this South American gray fox (Lycalopex griseus) that 
was observed in our El Trapial Field in Argentina.

Chevron places the highest priority on the health and safety 
of our workforce and protection of our assets, communities 
and the environment. We are committed to continually 
improving our environmental performance and reducing 
the potential impacts of our operations through the imple-
mentation of our Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS). Similar to how we apply the OEMS to safe-
work practices, our leaders are accountable for assessing 
strengths and gaps, completing risk-reducing actions, and 
enabling and delivering environmental performance.

Chevron’s expectations for environmental stewardship 
address all Core Corporate Environmental Aspects* 
of our environmental performance across the life of our 
assets. These expectations are met through environmental 
processes and standards established at the corporate 
and sector levels and are implemented by regional and 
local management. The processes and standards provide 
our business with the ﬂ exibility to focus on the potential 
risks and impacts to the environment most salient to 
the speciﬁ c areas and communities where we operate.

We continually seek risk-based, ﬁ t-for-purpose opportunities 
to improve our environmental performance, and as such, we 
have developed desired states for each of our Core Corporate 
Environmental Aspects. To help us meet our desired states, 
we have also established objectives and actions that are 
speciﬁ c to each aspect. Our current and future enterprise-
level work focuses on pursuing these desired states.

oil spills to land or water**

45

30

15

s
l
e
r
r
a
b
f
o
s
d
n
a
s
u
o
h
T

maintaining high-quality environmental data 

We rely on our environmental data to understand our 
performance and help identify potential areas of improve-
ment. We have invested in processes, systems and training 
to meet our objective of maintaining high-quality environ-
mental data. For example, we conduct detailed onsite 
and desktop peer reviews of local data collection processes, 
with a focus on operations that contribute the most to 
our enterprisewide data. These peer reviews verify that all 
sources have been accounted for and reported in accord-
ance with Chevron’s Operational Excellence Data Reporting 
Standard. Our peer review process and independent reviews 
by third parties continue to provide ongoing assurance of 
our data quality to enable informed business decisions.

environmental 
principles

We have four environmental principles that are 
implemented across the life of our assets:

•   Include the environment in decision making 
•   Reduce our environmental footprint
•   Operate responsibly 
•   Steward our sites

Operating responsibly at our Pascagoula Reﬁ nery
Our reﬁ neries periodically execute turnarounds, 
which are planned years in advance. These shut-
downs are used to perform maintenance, test and 
replace materials, and repair and replace equip-
ment. To mitigate potential environmental risks 
from turnaround activities, our reﬁ neries prepare 
and execute comprehensive and detailed environ-
mental turnaround plans that identify the speciﬁ c 
actions that will be taken to minimize air emis-
sions, ﬂ aring, water use, wastewater discharge 
and waste generation. In 2016, a turnaround at our 
Pascagoula Reﬁ nery Fluidized Catalytic Cracking 
Unit was successfully completed with no ﬂ aring 
during shutdown, unit cleanup or unit startup.

1

22

1

1

Year 

2012 

2013 

2014 

2015 

2016

Chevron ranking relative to competitors, 
1 being the lowest rate

Competitor range: British Petroleum plc, 
ExxonMobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell

 *Consistent with ISO 14001, we defined seven types of environmental activities, or 
Core Corporate Environmental Aspects: accidental release prevention and response, 
air emissions, energy efficiency and greenhouse gas, natural resources (including 
land, water and biodiversity), site residual impacts, waste, and wastewater.

 ** Source: Annual company sustainability reports: British Petroleum plc (BP), ExxonMobil 
Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell. When needed, units converted to thousands of barrels 
(bbl) based on the following assumptions: 1 bbl oil = 0.134 metric tons = 0.159 cubic 
meters; 1 cubic meter = 1,000 liters. BP spill volume excludes oil recovered.

chevron.com/cr
15

 
 
protect people and the environment

managing 
water 
resources

chevron recognizes the value of 
water as a fundamental social, environmental 
and economic resource and is 
committed to responsible water use

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/water

chevron.com/cr
16

As a global company, we know that access to adequate 
supplies of water is essential for the communities where we 
operate as well as for our ability to produce energy around 
the world. As users of this critical natural resource, we must 
manage it responsibly.

Chevron strives to use the lowest quantity of fresh water 
practicable in its operations. We also seek opportunities 
to reuse water where operational, regulatory and business 
conditions permit.

water management

Our Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 
(ESHIA) process and our Upstream-speciﬁ c Natural 
Resources Environmental Performance Standard (Natural 
Resources EPS) help us manage our water use across 
the life of our operated assets.

The ESHIA process is used by local project teams early 
in the life of the project to assess the potential impacts and 
beneﬁ ts of our activities on natural resources, including 
water. An important part of this process is assessing exist-
ing environmental and social conditions, such as how local 
communities are using water. This information is used during 
project planning to help us consider and address potentially 
signiﬁ cant water use by our operations in relation to local 
water availability.

Our Natural Resources EPS is applied across all of our 
onshore Upstream businesses and capital projects and 
requires a water resources screening assessment to identify 
potentially signiﬁ cant environmental and social impacts 
associated with our water use. Where there is potential for 
signiﬁ cant impacts, a water resources management plan 
(WRMP) is developed. The WRMP helps our operations 
identify and implement measures that reduce water with-
drawals when possible. 

water use in hydraulic fracturing

Chevron strives to reduce the amount of fresh water used 
in our hydraulic fracturing operations.

Using brackish water in the Permian
In the Permian Basin, we use brackish water that is not 
suitable for human consumption or agricultural usage in lieu 
of fresh water, when possible. More than 90 percent of the 
water used in our well completions in the Permian Basin is 
from brackish water sources.

Opposite: Employees inspect a remote terminal unit for 
the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition telemetry system. 
The unit monitors Chevron’s 1 million-gallon-capacity water 
storage tanks, which have eliminated the use of in-ground water 
storage pits in our Marcellus operations in Pennsylvania.

water use in 
well completions 
permian basin

100%

75%

50%

25%

Fresh water

Brackish water

Year 

2015 

2016 

2017

By using brackish water, we were able 
to reduce the amount of fresh water used.

Collaboration on water management in Argentina
In the Loma Campana concession in Argentina, our activities 
required the use and disposal of large volumes of water in 
2016. These operations were subject to stringent regulatory 
requirements around water management. In order to address 
these challenges, subject matter experts from Chevron’s 
Energy Technology Center and our Upstream Latin America 
business unit collaborated with our partner YPF, S.A., who 
operates the project. Through this work, ﬁ t-for-purpose, 
reliable and cost-eff ective alternatives were identiﬁ ed to 
treat and reuse the water that is brought to the surface 
when extracting oil and gas, in lieu of disposal. These alter-
natives were designed to meet regulatory requirements and 
the needs of external stakeholders while also contributing 
to sustainable business development.

additional resources
chevron.com/freshwaterpositionstatement
chevron.com/operations/shale

chevron.com/cr
17

integrity and trust

respecting 
human rights

chevron respects human rights and partners 
with host governments to complement 
their responsibility to protect human rights 

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/humanrights

respect for human rights

Chevron’s Human Rights Policy applies to all of our em-
ployees and operations and guides our respect for human 
rights across the business. Chevron regularly identiﬁ es and 
manages potential impacts through processes and tools, 
including global and context-speciﬁ c impact assessments. 
Training provides guidance to our teams to help manage 
potential impacts in the communities where we operate, 
the provision of security, the administration of our work-
force, and the procurement of products and services. 
Our Human Rights Policy is governed by Chevron’s Global 
Issues Committee (a subcommittee of Chevron’s Executive 
Committee), involves oversight by our Board of Directors, 
and adheres to the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights.

stakeholder engagement 

We build trusting relationships by collaborating with 
communities, governments, customers, suppliers and 
business partners. Chevron’s Stakeholder Engagement 
process requires that systems and plans be in place 
at the operational level to manage community input and 
issues, including the use of grievance mechanisms, as 
appropriate. Go to chevron.com/worldwide/myanmar 
to see an example of a grievance mechanism.

provision of security 

As a founding member of the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights Initiative* (VPI), Chevron has 
long demonstrated dedication to responsible security. 

Government, civil and business organizations work 
together within the VPI to empower security forces protect-
ing assets to work in a manner that respects human rights. 
Chevron’s Operational Excellence Management System 
provides a comprehensive framework to identify and 
mitigate security risk and aligns security operations with 
our Human Rights Policy. In 2016, thousands of public and 
private security personnel associated with Chevron’s global 
operations received training on the Voluntary Principles.

labor relations 

We treat our employees with dignity and respect and pro-
mote diversity and inclusion. Our policies and procedures 
adhere to applicable domestic laws and are consistent with 
the International Labour Organization’s principles around 
supporting association and bargaining and prohibiting 
discrimination, forced labor and underage workers.

contracting and procurement 

We contractually require suppliers to treat their 
employees and interact with communities in ways that 
respect human rights and adhere to domestic laws. 
We regularly communicate with key suppliers to reinforce 
our human rights commitment.

 *The VPI consists of governments, extractive companies and civil society 
organizations that join together to proactively implement security principles 
that prioritize respect for human rights.

chevron.com/cr
18

diversity and inclusion

100%

In 2016, we achieved a score 
of 100 percent on the Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the 
12th consecutive year. Learn more about 
our diverse, engaged and capable 
workforce at chevron.com/diversity.

human rights–
related guidance 
on community

Indigenous peoples
Chevron’s Indigenous Peoples Guidance outlines 
building blocks for eff ective management of 
relations with indigenous peoples, including: 
stakeholder identiﬁ cation, deﬁ ning the regulatory 
framework, pre-consult and determine the pre-
ferred method of engagement, assess potential 
impacts and beneﬁ ts, conduct community 
consultations, and develop and implement 
indigenous peoples plans. 

Resettlement
Chevron’s Resettlement Guidance provides a 
framework for projects and operations to utilize 
when considering resettlement, from assessment 
and planning to implementation. Resettlement 
objectives include informed business decision 
making, partner alignment and consultation with 
aff ected persons.

Operational-level grievances
Chevron’s Grievance Mechanism Guidance 
outlines steps for operations to design or update 
an operational-level grievance mechanism that 
strives to be legitimate, accessible, predictable, 
equitable, transparent and rights-compatible. 
The mechanism should be based on engagement 
and dialogue and promote continuous learning.

As critical stakeholders, Myanmar 
ﬁ shing communities were frequently 
consulted during engagements 
around seismic exploration activities 
in 2015 and 2016.

engagement with indigenous 
peoples in Canada
Chevron Canada Limited works with approximately 
40 Aboriginal groups across the proposed Kitimat 
liqueﬁ ed natural gas (LNG) and Kaybob Duvernay 
projects. Through these relationships, Chevron Canada 
has developed innovative agreements, programs 
and opportunities for Aboriginal communities to directly 
beneﬁ t from our projects. For example, the proposed 
Kitimat LNG Project’s First Nations Limited 
Partnership has already provided 16 First Nation groups 
with signiﬁ cant beneﬁ ts, including economic 
beneﬁ t payments, education and training programs, 
and employment and contracting opportunities.

chevron.com/cr
19

partnership

creating 
prosperity

we are committed to running our business 
the right way and unlocking 
potential for progress with our communities—
we call this the business of progress

learn more(cid:2)(cid:2)chevron.com/creatingprosperity

$39B

in total goods and services 
spent globally in 2016

In the United States, we spent more 
than $570 million with woman- and minority-
owned businesses and more than $1.8 billion 
on goods and services from small 
businesses. See Page 28 for further information 
on our goods and services spending.

Above: The Future Growth Project–Wellhead Pressure Management 
Project (FGP-WPMP) will leave a legacy of new capabilities for 
Kazakhstan’s future—in engineering, high-tech equipment servicing, 
project management, construction and fabrication. At peak construc-
tion and fabrication, FGP-WPMP will generate around 20,000 jobs.

chevron.com/cr
20

At Chevron, we believe that our business succeeds best 
when the people we work with and the communities in 
which we operate succeed too. So we work to create pros-
perity and contribute to progress everywhere we invest. 
The primary way we do this is by providing aff ordable, 
reliable energy. Supporting economic development, health 
and education is also fundamental to our mutual progress. 
Therefore, we bring together the people, resources and 
expertise to deliver lasting change on a local level through 
direct business investments, sourcing and hiring decisions, 
and strategic social investments. 

building local capacity

Among Chevron’s most powerful tools for creating 
prosperity in our communities are our supply chain and 
workforce investments. Much of Chevron’s total goods and 
services spending is on goods and services provided by 
locally owned companies (local content). For example, in 
2016, the Chevron-led Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture 
spent more than $1.9 billion on Kazakhstani goods and 
services. In Nigeria, we spent $2.5 billion on local content. 
This represented 65 percent of our total Nigerian goods 
and services expenditures for the year. Chevron invests in 
building the capacity of local companies to help them win 
new business from us and our major international suppli-
ers. We do so through partnerships with national and local 
governments, national oil companies, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs), and development agencies. Chevron 
employees work to enhance local suppliers’ capabilities to 
meet industry standards, especially when it comes to health, 
environment and safety performance.

Chevron recognizes that the positive local impact of our 
supply chain investments can be ampliﬁ ed by the sourc-
ing decisions of our suppliers. So we encourage our major 
international suppliers of goods and services to form joint 
venture partnerships with local businesses and to maxi-
mize the purchase of local goods and services. These joint 
ventures create an opportunity for local businesses to 
gain access to new technology, bring their processes up to 
international standards and train their people on the latest 
industry practices.

Chevron is also committed to investing in workforce training 
and job skills development in the communities where we 
work. Building the capabilities of local workforces not only 
helps us sustain a strong employee base, but also leaves 
a lasting positive impact on communities as they gain new 
skills and knowledge.

sourcing in Kazakhstan
In Kazakhstan, the Chevron-led TCO joint venture 
has worked to increase the positive local impact of our 
supply chain investments by collaborating with 
our international supplier Nabors Industries Ltd., one 
of the world’s largest oil and gas drilling contractors. 
With encouragement from TCO, Nabors Industries 
has partnered with the Kazakhstani-owned KMG 
Drilling & Services. The new entity, KMG Nabors Drilling 
Company LLP (KMG Nabors), is one of the ﬁ rst 
Kazakhstani drilling companies to meet the standards 
and requirements of large operators such as TCO, 
and it has hired more than 100 Kazakhstani employees 
to support the contract with TCO. KMG Drilling 
& Services is also beneﬁ ting from the partnership 
thanks to improved safety processes and practices as 
well as signiﬁ cant technology transfer; the local 
company now has two world-class drilling rigs, one 
of which is the most advanced in the region.

local economic impact

Beyond local sourcing and hiring, Chevron contributes to 
the growth of local economies in many ways, most funda-
mentally by providing them with reliable, aff ordable energy. 
Taken together, our operations can contribute signiﬁ cantly 
to a country’s economic progress and prosperity. With the 
help of independent research and analysis ﬁ rms, we can 
quantify those contributions to demonstrate the positive 
impacts we have on local economies and livelihoods.

contributing in the United Kingdom*
Chevron’s 50-year partnership with the 
United Kingdom continues to create a positive economic 
ripple eff ect throughout the country. In 2015, 
Chevron directly employed more than 1,000 people, 
indirectly supporting the equivalent of more 
than 51,700 U.K. jobs and adding around $2.7 billion 
to the country’s gross domestic product. In the 
10-year period to year-end 2015, Chevron’s North Sea–
related activities generated a tax contribution 
to the U.K. government of more than $5.9 billion.

 *In 2015, Chevron commissioned a study independently administered by 
Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce in collaboration with the Fraser 
of Allander Institute to provide an assessment of Chevron’s overall economic 
impact in the United Kingdom.

chevron.com/cr
21

appalachia partnership initiative
Chevron, along with regional partners, established the 
Appalachia Partnership Initiative (API) to address education 
and workforce development skills gaps in Pittsburgh’s 
Tri-State area (Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia).

The API works with local partners to make investments 
in K–12 science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
education as well as in post-secondary training and 
apprenticeship programs. For example, Chevron is working 
with ShaleNET, a workforce training program for the 
energy and advanced manufacturing industries, to provide 
scholarships to students at community colleges in the 
region. The partnership also focuses on connecting 
high school education programs and workforce training 
through career and technical curriculum resources, supply 
chain connections, post-secondary training programs, 
and trade certiﬁ cations. The goal is to be a catalyst 
to enable generations of families to stay and thrive in 
their communities by preparing them for energy and 
advanced manufacturing jobs and careers.

Above: Holly Schweitzer practices technical skills at Stark State 
College in North Canton, Ohio. This training program is supported 
by the Appalachia Partnership Initiative.

social investment

Chevron takes a collaborative approach to social invest-
ment by partnering with NGOs, government leaders, and 
public and private international organizations. Through 
these partnerships, we off er funding, technical expertise, 
local capabilities and convening power to bring stake-
holders together around common goals. In 2016, Chevron 
contributed more than $185 million around the world 
and has contributed more than $1.2 billion over the past 
ﬁ ve years. This level of social investment demonstrates 
our commitment to investing in programs that strengthen 
economic development, health and education, which 
together are the foundation of strong communities.

Economic development
We aim to foster economic stability and address local 
needs by making social investments in economic devel-
opment programs that promote self-suffi  ciency and job 
growth. In Indonesia, our multiyear PRISMA (Promoting 
Sustainable Integrated Farming, Small Enterprise Cluster 
and Microﬁ nance Access) program provides small grants, 
capacity-building training, technical assistance and access 
to loans through microﬁ nance institutions to local farmer 
groups, small businesses and cooperatives in 11 regions 
throughout Indonesia. In total, the program supports more 
than 1,500 beneﬁ ciaries and off ers assistance in 36 sectors, 
including agriculture, ﬁ shery, processed food commodities, 
weaving and batik making, and eco-cultural tourism villages.

Health
Chevron is committed to supporting partnerships and 
programs that promote healthy communities by improving 
access to health care, strengthening health systems and 
helping ﬁ ght against infectious diseases. For example, we 
partner with the Baylor College of Medicine International 
Pediatric AIDS Initiative at Texas Children’s Hospital, which 
works to provide treatment and training to medically 
underserved populations in Africa and Latin America. 
This partnership helped create a ﬁ ve-year pediatric health 
care program in La Guajira, Colombia, that focuses on 
decreasing the high morbidity and mortality rates for 
mothers and children from the remote Wayúu indigenous 
community there. 

Prevention of HIV/AIDS continues to be a major focus 
of our health eff orts, as some of our largest operations are 
located in countries where HIV is prevalent. We partner 
with organizations such as the international NGO Pact to 
help develop programs focused on prevention of mother-
to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV. These initiatives work 
with community-based organizations and governments to 
provide education, testing services and capacity building. 
Since our partnership with Pact began in 2012, 735 individ-
uals have been trained on state-of-the-art PMTCT approaches 
throughout the state of Bayelsa, Nigeria.

chevron.com/cr
22

Education 
STEM education is a key building block of employability 
and economic development. Working with our partners, we 
take a holistic approach to our investments in education 
by inspiring young people to pursue STEM careers and by 
supporting educational standards, proven curricula and 
teacher professional development. We bring together the 
people, resources and expertise to promote lasting change 
on a local level by championing educational programs from 
kindergarten through college, as well as career and technical 
training for the workforce. Visit chevron.com/education 
for more information on our global education partnerships 
and programs.

$1.2 billion+
in global social 
investments since 2012

Above: A Nigerian development practitioner supports cassava 
farmers as part of the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative’s economic 
development program, which builds the technical and business 
skills of agricultural associations to improve farming productivity. 
In 2016, more than 30,000 low-income households experienced 
increased income, and more than 1,900 jobs were created through 
the program.

Above: In Richmond, California, a community member learns 
construction skills through RichmondBUILD, a Chevron-sponsored 
workforce development program. Graduates of the 12-week 
program have the potential to be hired by construction companies 
in the San Francisco Bay Area.

314,500+

U.S. volunteer hours

chevron humankind
In the United States, Chevron encourages employee 
and retiree volunteerism and giving through 
Chevron Humankind. In 2016, 9,384 employees and 
retirees contributed more than 314,500 volunteer hours 
to 2,475 charitable organizations in the United States, 
and a total of $38 million was contributed to U.S. non-
proﬁ t organizations through a combination of employee 
and retiree giving and company matching funds.

global involvement
Chevron employees are also engaged in their 
communities globally. As part of the One Goal – One 
Team campaign in Thailand, more than 550 Chevron 
employees and family members joined community 
members to develop the ﬁ rst Pa Sak Model learning 
center, which promotes natural resource conservation at 
Huai Krathaek in the Lopburi province. Employees 
in the Luanda Chevron Volunteer Opportunities 
program in Angola helped reduce exposure to malaria 
for 100 children by painting the Mama Muxima 
Orphanage walls with insect-repellent paint.

chevron.com/cr
23

high performance

performance 
data

These tables include our quantitative 
environmental, safety and social performance 
data. For complete reporting, including 
performance data, visit chevron.com/reporting.

Global employee diversity

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Number of regular employees at year-end

51,953

58,178

61,456

61,345

58,286

Number of service station employees at year-end

3,248

3,316

3,259

3,205

3,656

Number of U.S. employees at year-end

23,418

26,448

28,666

28,974

27,471

Percent U.S. employees represented by unions

10.6

10.0

9.6

10.4

10.4

Percent women in total workforce 

24.2

24.3

24.7

24.3

23.8

Percent women represented at mid-level and above

14.9

14.1

14.2

13.4

12.5

Percent women and non-Caucasian men represented at 
senior executive levels

31.5

31.3

30.6

29.7

26.9

Percent employees working in their home country

94

93

92

91

Percent workforce in North America

44.6

44.9

45.8

46.2

45.8

Percent workforce in Asia-Paciﬁ c

28.1

28.9

29.3

28.4

28.1

Percent workforce in Africa

13.7

13.2

12.8

13.1

13.5

Percent workforce in Europe/Middle East

Percent workforce in South America

7.3

4.0

7.0

3.9

6

3.9

6.4

3.9

6.4

4.1

chevron.com/cr
24

 
Health and safety performance(cid:18)1

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Total Recordable Incident Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)(cid:18)2

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

0.14

0.26

0.10

0.24

0.16

0.27

0.18

0.24

0.10

0.24

0.20

0.24

0.18

0.33

0.10

0.28

0.21

0.36

Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours)(cid:18)2

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Days Away From Work Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)(cid:18)2

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Number of work-related fatalities

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

0.10

0.28

0.08

0.32

0.11

0.25

0.016

0.051

0.015

0.063

0.016

0.044

10

1

9

0.10

0.29

0.10

0.38

0.10

0.24

0.019

0.057

0.020

0.075

0.018

0.047

3

0

3

0.11

0.36

0.06

0.39

0.12

0.35

0.021

0.070

0.011

0.077

0.023

0.067

3

0

3

Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)(cid:18)2

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Contractors

2.03

2.23

0.82

2.44

0.51

0.66

0.00

0.67

0.49

0.78

0.00

0.63

0.21

0.35

0.15

0.29

0.23

0.38

0.13

0.38

0.14

0.42

0.12

0.36

0.020

0.072

0.026

0.083

0.018

0.067

16

2

14

2.71

1.83

1.44

3.11

0.24

0.38

0.20

0.31

0.25

0.42

0.15

0.39

0.13

0.39

0.15

0.39

0.027

0.075

0.024

0.075

0.027

0.074

8

1

7

1.48

1.47

0.76

1.71

Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with 
employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)

0.81

0.51

0.49

1.02

1.11

Motor Vehicle Crash Rate 
(workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven)(cid:18)3

Number of process safety Tier 1 events 
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance)(cid:18)4

Upstream

Downstream and chemicals

Midstream

0.03

0.02

0.04

0.04

0.07

22

16

6

0

29

18

10

1

19

15

3

1

38

24

10

4

76

58

15

3

chevron.com/cr
25

footnotes are on Pages 28–29

Environmental performance(cid:18)5

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Accidental release prevention and response

Petroleum spills to land and water 
(volume in thousand barrels)6 

Total volume recovered

Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills)(cid:18)6

Spills of signiﬁ cance (number of spills)(cid:18)7

Natural resources—water

Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)(cid:18)8

Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters)(cid:18)8

Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)(cid:18)8

Wastewater

0.7

0.3

62

9

78

77

38

Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water (parts per million)(cid:18)9

Upstream

Reﬁ ning

9

1

Total amount of oil discharged to surface water (thousand metric tons)(cid:18)9

0.8

0.6

63

13

78

77

43

10

1

0.8

0.4

79

2.1

1.4

1.7

1.2

133

146

85

93

88

41

37

35

9

1

10

2

10

4

Upstream

Reﬁ ning

Greenhouse gas

EQUITY BASIS

Net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, equity basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)10, 11, 12, 13, 15 

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), equity basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)10, 12, 13, 15

GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2), 
equity basis (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)10, 13

GHG emissions from exported electricity and steam, 
equity basis (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)10, 13

GHG emissions from third-party use of our products, 
equity basis (million metric tons of CO2)(cid:18)14

OPERATED BASIS

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)10, 12, 13

GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2), 
operated basis (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)10, 13

Methane emissions, direct, operated basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)(cid:18)13

Upstream GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated basis 
(metric tons of CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of 
oil-equivalent production)(cid:18)13

1.2

0.04

1.3

0.04

1.3

0.05

1.3

0.08

1.4

0.13

60

60

4

4

59

59

4

5

56

56

5

5

57

57

5

5

57

58

4

6

363

366

358

363

364

66

68

66

6

6

6

6

6

6

35

36

34

69

6

7

36

70

6

6

36

footnotes are on Pages 28–29

chevron.com/cr
26

Environmental performance(cid:18),5 continued

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

OPERATED BASIS, continued

Reﬁ ning GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated basis 
(metric tons of CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of crude oil 
and other reﬁ nery feed)(cid:18)13

Average ﬂ are gas volume rate, direct, operated basis 
(million standard cubic feet per day)(cid:18)15

Energy effi  ciency

Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated 
joint venture reﬁ neries (trillion BTUs)(cid:18)16

Total energy consumption, operated assets

Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated 
joint venture reﬁ neries (million gigajoules)(cid:18)16

Total energy consumption, operated assets

33

35

37

38

38

644

615

563

692

821

862

703

909

742

865

711

913

750

920

744

970

785

881

697

929

735

870

690

918

728

Manufacturing Energy Index (Reﬁ ning) (no units)(cid:18)16

84.2

85.2

87.6

88.8

88.9

Upstream Energy Intensity (thousand BTUs per barrel 
of oil equivalent)(cid:18)16

Pipeline Energy Intensity (BTUs per barrel of oil 
equivalent-mile)(cid:18)16

338

330

341

344

325

20.0

24.1

28.7

30.9

34.5

Shipping Energy Intensity (BTUs per metric ton-mile)(cid:18)16

43.4

32.4

48.7

50.5

55.2

Non-Manufacturing Energy Index (Oronite, Lubricants, etc.) 
(no units)(cid:18)16

75.6

79.1

86.0

81.9

73.7

Air emissions

Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted 
(thousand metric tons)(cid:18)17

154

144

Total sulfur oxides (SOx) emitted (thousand metric tons)(cid:18)17

Total nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted (thousand metric tons)(cid:18)17

Waste

Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons)(cid:18)18

Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons)(cid:18)18

Hazardous waste recycled (million metric tons)(cid:18)18

Fines and settlements

Number of environmental, health and safety ﬁ nes paid and 
settlements entered into, equity basis

Cost of environmental, health and safety ﬁ nes paid and 
settlements entered into, equity basis (millions of dollars)

66

151

0.6

0.4

0.3

102

6.7

84

148

0.7

0.3

0.4

135

3.9

134

112

138

1.0

0.8

0.1

147

141

147

0.9

0.8

0.1

159

123

146

0.9

0.5

0.4

292

284

339

57.1

119.2

91.1

chevron.com/cr
27

footnotes are on Pages 28–29

U.S. equal employment opportunity 
commission statistics

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Percent minorities among total employees

38.0

37.0

36.3

35.9

36.2

Percent women among total employees

29.9

29.9

29.7

29.3

29.7

Percent minorities among executives and senior managers

13.4

13.1

11.6

12.1

11.1

Percent minorities among ﬁ rst- and mid-level managers

30.2

29.5

28.6

27.4

27.9

Percent women among executives and senior managers

18.5

17.0

16.3

16.4

15.9

Percent women among ﬁ rst- and mid-level managers

29.0

28.3

28.8

27.5

28.1

Percent minorities among professionals (women and men)

34.8

34.5

33.9

33.0

32.3

Percent women among professionals

32.5

32.5

32.3

31.8

32.0

Supply chain management(cid:18)19

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

Total goods and services spend (billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spend with U.S.-based 
businesses (billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spend with U.S.-based small 
businesses (billions of dollars)(cid:18)20

Goods and services spend with U.S.-based woman- and 
minority-owned businesses (billions of dollars)(cid:18)20

$39

$12

$54

$15

$63

$18

$59

$17

$52

$16

$1.8

$2.3

$2.5

$2.6

$2.5

$0.57

$0.77

$0.98

$0.95

$0.86

notes to pages 25 through 28

  1  This section reflects data collected as 

of February 2, 2017.

  2  Health and safety performance rates 

include both injury- and illness-related 
incidents. API’s Benchmarking Survey 
of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses and 
Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry 
data are used as industry benchmarks. 
Benchmark data on competitor-average 
performance for 2016 were available at 
the time of publication.

  3  Data include catastrophic and major 

incidents only.

  4  Loss-of-primary-containment (LOPC) 

incidents are unplanned or uncontrolled 
releases resulting in consequences 

equivalent to those specified by ANSI/
API Recommended Practice [RP] 754 and 
International Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) 
Report 456: Process Safety Recommended 
Practice on Key Performance Indicators.

  7  The nine spills of significance Chevron 

experienced in 2016 ranged in size from 
0.4 barrels to 329 barrels. Of the 882 
total barrels spilled, 831 barrels were 
spilled to secondary containment. 

  5  This section reflects 2016 data collected as 
of April 14, 2017. All data are reported on 
an operated basis unless otherwise noted.

  6  Chevron reports petroleum spills to 

land and water to conform to the 2015 
IPIECA reporting guidance. Spills to 
land and water that are greater than or 
equal to one barrel are included. Spills to 
secondary containment and chemical 
spills are excluded.

  For purposes of conforming to the 2015 
IPIECA reporting guidance, Chevron 
defines a spill of significance as a process 
safety Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment 
(LOPC) event (as defined by American 
National Standards Institute/American 
Petroleum Institute [ANSI/API] RP 754) 
with a consequence of a release of 
material greater than the threshold quan-
tities described in Table 1 of ANSI/API 
RP 754 in any one-hour period. Refer to 
footnote 4 for the definition of an LOPC 

chevron.com/cr
28

 
notes to pages 24 through 28, continued

energy required to produce Chevron prod-
ucts compared to the energy that would 
have been required to produce the same 
products in 1992 (the index’s base year).

 17  VOC and NOx emissions increased in 
2016 because we began reporting 
emissions from MCPs that commenced 
operation. In addition, refinements 
were made in the data reporting.

  SOx emissions decreased in 2016 primarily 
due to the shut-in of production at facil-
ities in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait.

  2015 VOC, SOx and NOx emissions have 
been refined to include emissions from 
MCPs that started in 2015 and to align with 
data that were reported to regulatory 
agencies after the publication of Chevron’s 
2015 Corporate Responsibility Report.

  For compiling and reporting air emissions 
data, Chevron follows regulatory definitions 
of VOC. SOx emissions include SO2 and 
SO3, reported as SO2-equivalent. NOx 
emissions include NO and NO2 (reported 
as NO2-equivalent) and exclude N2O.

  Additional air emissions data can be found 
at chevron.com/air.

 18  Corrections were made to the amounts 
of hazardous waste generated and 
recycled in 2015 to include waste that 
was previously not reported.

  To conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting 
Guidance, and where appropriate 
information and data exist, our hazardous 
waste numbers starting in 2015 exclude 
remediation waste generated, disposed 
of and recycled.

  Hazardous waste amounts are quantified 
using methods required or recommended 
by regulatory agencies or authorities, 
where applicable. In other instances, 
similar methods are used, including direct 
measurement onsite or at the point of 
shipping, engineering estimates, and 
process knowledge. Chevron follows the 
regulatory definitions of hazardous waste 
applicable to the jurisdictions within which 
we operate, including de minimis speci-
fications (below which hazardous waste 
quantities do not need to be reported).

19   This section reflects data collected as of 

March 29, 2017.

 20  Some prior years’ data are restated due 

to improvements in data quality.

event. Spills to secondary containment, 
regardless of actual environmental impact, 
are included, as are chemical spills.

  The basis for the methane and GHG 
intensity data was changed from equity 
to operated.

  8  Produced water is excluded from fresh 

water withdrawn, fresh water consumed 
and nonfresh water withdrawn.

  Nonfresh water withdrawn totals 
decreased in 2016 (relative to prior years) 
due to lower demand from our operations 
in California and the Partitioned Zone 
between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

  9  2015 average oil concentration for 

Upstream has been restated to correct 
an error.

  Oil concentration is determined by the 
sampling of effluent streams. Chevron 
reports the total cumulative amount of 
oil discharged to surface water excluding 
spills, which are reported separately.

 10  The World Resources Institute/World 
Business Council for Sustainable 
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: 
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard defines three “scopes” that 
Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. 
Scope 1 includes direct emissions from 
sources within a facility. Scope 2 includes 
indirect emissions from electricity and 
steam that Chevron imports. Scope 3 
includes all other indirect emissions. 
Chevron reports information related to 
two types of Scope 3 emissions: emissions 
associated with electricity and steam that 
Chevron exports to third parties and emis-
sions from third-party use of our products.

 11  The GHG performance data that reference 
this footnote were calculated by adding 
direct (Scope 1) emissions to indirect 
(Scope 2) emissions and subtracting indi-
rect (Scope 3) emissions associated with 
electricity and steam that Chevron exports.  
Due to rounding, individual numbers may 
not sum to the total number.

 12  Direct GHG emissions related to produc-
tion of energy in the form of electricity 
or steam exported or sold to a third 
party have been included in the reported 
Scope 1 emissions to conform to the 
2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance.

 13  Refinements were made in the data 

reporting for 2015 equity and operated 
GHG emissions.

  2016 direct, operated GHG emissions 
decreased primarily due to variation in 
which assets were producing and reduced 
power generation and steam demand. 
In addition, the execution of two flare 
reduction projects in our Nigeria/Mid-
Africa and Southern Africa strategic 
business units contributed to the decrease.

  All six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide (CO2), 
methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur 
hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydro-
fluorocarbons—are included in Chevron’s 
Scope 1 emissions. CO2, CH4 and N2O 
are accounted for in Chevron’s Scope 2 
emissions and in Chevron’s Scope 3 emis-
sions related to the electricity and steam 
that Chevron exports to third parties.

  The following entities are not currently 
included in the 2016 Chevron corporate 
GHG inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical 
Co., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, 
the Chad–Cameroon pipeline joint venture, 
and other nonoperated assets in which 
Chevron has an equity interest of 16 per-
cent or less. 

  Information regarding GHG emissions 
from Chevron Phillips Chemical Company 
LLC can be found at cpchem.com.

 14  Chevron calculated emissions from third-
party use of our products by multiplying 
total 2016 Upstream liquids and gas 
production by emissions factors from 
API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Methodologies for the Oil 
and Natural Gas Industry (2004, 2009).

 15  The 2016 enterprisewide flare gas volume 
rate increased due to the startup of major 
capital projects (MCPs). It is anticipated 
that the enterprisewide flare gas volume 
rate will decrease after steady-state opera-
tion of the MCPs is achieved.

  The 2015 enterprisewide flare gas volume 
rate has been refined to include emissions 
from MCPs that started up in 2015.

  In 2016, facilities under Chevron’s opera-
tional control generated an enterprisewide 
average vent gas volume rate of 42 million 
standard cubic feet per day.

 16  Total energy consumption for 2014 and 
2015 has been restated to include con-
sumption by Chevron Power and Energy 
Management.

  2016 Pipeline Energy Intensity decreased 
due to changes in calculation methodology. 
2016 Shipping Energy Intensity increased 
because we began reporting energy con-
sumption from time-chartered vessels.

  Refining energy performance is measured 
by the Manufacturing Energy Index (MEI), 
which is calculated using the Solomon 
Energy Intensity Index methodology. MEI 
includes operated assets and nonoperated 
joint venture refineries.

  Energy performance for Oronite, 
Lubricants, Americas Products and Inter-
national Products is measured by the Non-
Manufacturing Energy Index, which is the 

chevron.com/cr
29

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IPIECA/API/IOGP content index

This index refers to the IPIECA/API/IOGP* 
sector-specific reporting guidance for the oil and 
gas industry. For 2016, Chevron reported on 
all 34 indicators. An expanded IPIECA/API/IOGP 
index is available at chevron.com/IPIECA.

Topic

IPIECA/API/IOGP

Page/s

Website

Reporting overview

A message from our chairman and CEO

Issue prioritization process

Performance data 

Assurance statement and About this report

Health and safety issues and indicators

Safety management

Workforce protection

Product health, safety and environmental risks(cid:16)

Process safety and asset integrity

HS1 (cid:16)HS2 (cid:16)HS3

HS4

HS5

Environmental issues and indicators

Environmental management

1

4

24–29 

31, 32

6–7

8–9, 25

chevron.com/reporting

chevron.com/OE

chevron.com/healthsafety

chevron.com/healthsafety

9, 25

chevron.com/healthsafety

6–7, 14–15

chevron.com/OE
chevron.com/environment

Climate change and energy

E1 (cid:16)E2 (cid:16)E3 (cid:16)E4

10–13, 26–27, 29

chevron.com/climatechange

Biodiversity and ecosystem services

Water

E5

E6 (cid:16)E7

Local environmental impacts

E8 (cid:16)E9 (cid:16)E10 (cid:16)E11

chevron.com/biodiversity

16–17, 26, 29

chevron.com/water

8–9, 14–15, 26–27, 
28, 29

chevron.com/environment
chevron.com/EMC

Social issues and indicators

Community and society

SE1 (cid:16)SE4

18–23

chevron.com/creatingprosperity
chevron.com/humanrights

Human rights

Local content

SE2 (cid:16)SE3 (cid:16)SE8 (cid:16)SE9 (cid:16)SE10

18–19

chevron.com/humanrights

SE5 (cid:16)SE6 (cid:16)SE7

20–23, 24

chevron.com/creatingprosperity

Business ethics and transparency

SE11 (cid:16)SE12 (cid:16)SE13 (cid:16)SE14

4–5

chevron.com/ethicsgovernance

Labor practices

SE15 (cid:16)SE16 (cid:16)SE17 (cid:16)SE18

5, 18–19, 24

chevron.com/diversity
chevron.com/BCEC

 *IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association of Oil & Gas Producers.

chevron.com/cr
30

LRQA Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate  
Responsibility Report for the Calendar Year 2016

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in 
accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report.

Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by 
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide 
independent assurance on its processes used in the creation of the  
Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for calendar year 2016 to a reason-
able level using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:

•   Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health,  
environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.

•   Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry 

guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) industry guidelines.

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data 
and information reported in the CRR.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LRQA disclaims any liability or 
responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s  
management was responsible for preparing the CRR and for maintaining 
effective internal controls over the reporting processes and CRR. LRQA’s 
responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting 
processes in accordance with our contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the  
CRR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Chevron.

LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting processes 
were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for assessing 
corporate performance and reporting information consistent with common 
reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance  
on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of  
assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the Verifier.

LRQA’s Approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our  
Verification procedure;* the following tasks were undertaken as part of the 
evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement:

•   Visiting Chevron Corporation in San Ramon, California, to review data 

collection and checking processes. Reviewing Chevron Upstream and Gas 
and Chevron Downstream and Chemicals to assess business-unit under-
standing and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•   Visiting three Chevron Upstream and Gas operations (Appalachian  

Mountain Business Unit in Pennsylvania, Canada Business Unit in Alberta 
and Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan) and one Downstream & Chemicals 
operation (Americas Products, Transportation and Operations in San 
Ramon, California) to assess local understanding and implementation of 
Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•   Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of 

Chevron’s reporting requirements including key persons responsible for 
drafting the CRR.

•   Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate 

consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of the 
HES performance indicators.

•   Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the 

reporting processes.

•  Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry 

guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015).

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance  
engagement, are:

•   Processes were in place to ensure that personnel contributing to HES 
metrics understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.

•   Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly 

defined and communicated.

•   Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood and 
carried out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels were 
checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics.

•   Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 

was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.

Recommendations 
Additional areas for improvement were provided in a separate report to 
Chevron Management. These recommendations do not affect our opinion.

LRQA’s Competence and Independence
 LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on 
their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification 
and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior manage-
ment to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.

LRQA is one of Chevron’s certification bodies for ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 
and greenhouse gas emissions verification. The certification assessments 
and verification are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron and as 
such do not compromise our independence or impartiality.

Andrea M. Bockrath
LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
April 11, 2017

LRQA Reference: UQA4000679

 *LRQA’s Verification procedure is based on current best practise and uses  
the principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness  
and Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000.

 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective 
officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no respon-
sibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document 
or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or 
advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

 The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 

 This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

 Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2017. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.

chevron.com/cr
31

 
about this report

This report covers 2016 data and activities. We also 
occasionally mention activities that took place before 
2016 and in early 2017 when they help provide a 
clearer picture of our performance. This report covers 
our owned and our operated businesses and does not 
address the performance of our suppliers, contractors 
and partners unless otherwise noted. All ﬁ nancial 
information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise 
noted. Our previous report was published in May 2016 
and covers 2015 data and activities.

We continue to be informed by reporting frameworks 
and guidelines, including the Oil and gas industry 
guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting, third 
edition, published in 2015 by IPIECA (the global oil and 
gas industry association for environmental and social 
issues), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the 
International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). 
An index to help readers ﬁ nd information corresponding 
to IPIECA/API/IOGP indicators can be found on Page 30 
of this report and at chevron.com/IPIECA.

This report, previous editions and additional informa-
tion can be found at chevron.com/cr. We welcome your 
comments and feedback.

Chevron Corporation
Policy, Government and Public Affairs
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road 
Building G
San Ramon, CA 94583

additional reporting on 
environmental, social 
and governance indicators 
can be found at 
chevron.com/reporting

cautionary statement relevant to 
forward-looking information 

This 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights by 
Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking state-
ments relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to 
conduct certain of its activities, based on management’s 
current plans and expectations. These statements are not 
promises or guarantees of future conduct or policy and 
are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, 
many of which are beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including 
the development, implementation or continuation of any 
program, policy or initiative discussed or forecast in this 
report, may diff er materially in the future. The statements 
of intention in this report speak only as of the date of 
this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly 
update any statements in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such 
terms as “the Company,” “the corporation,” “their,” “our,” 
“its,” “we” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s 
consolidated subsidiaries or affi  liates or to all of them 
taken as a whole. All of these terms are used for conven-
ience only and are not intended as a precise description 
of any of the separate entities, each of which manages 
its own aff airs.

chevron.com/cr
32

awards and recognition

corporate responsibility
Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 Best Corporate Citizens

Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America

Fortune Magazine 20 Most Generous Companies of the Fortune 500 

Newsweek Green Rankings

workforce
American Indian Science and Engineering Society Top 50 Workplaces 
for Native American STEM Professionals

Business Insider 50 Best Companies to Work For in America

CareerBliss 50 Happiest Companies in America

Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index 100 Percent 

Indeed Top Companies to Work For in 2016

National Business Inclusion Consortium Best-of-the-Best 
Top 30 Corporations for Inclusion

San Francisco Business Times 2016 Healthiest Employers 
in the Greater Bay Area

select 2016 memberships and associations

American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers*

American Petroleum Institute*

Business for Social Responsibility

Business Roundtable

Center for Responsible Shale Development

Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative

International Association of Oil & Gas Producers

IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for 
environmental and social issues

National Association of Manufacturers*

United States Chamber of Commerce*

Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights

Western States Petroleum Association*

*Chevron’s corporate-level trade association memberships with dues paid 
of more than $500,000, where dues may be used for lobbying.

Editor and writer Marian Macindoe(cid:17)Production manager Paige Gilbreath(cid:17)
Photography advisor Sarah Coon(cid:17)Copy editor Joan D. Saunders 

Photo credits Cover, 16 and 22: Nicolas S. Lockerman; 1: Eric Myer; 2: Ken Childress, William Colgin, 
Marc Marriott; 3: Georgy Trukhin, Marc Marriott, Darrell Brown; 4 and 9: Ken Childress; 6 and 20: Andrey Kulagin; 
8 and 13: Marc Marriott; 14: Eduardo Schutz; 19: Linsi Crain; 23: Andrew Esiebo, Charles Anderson

learn more

This report and additional content can be 
found at chevron.com/publications. For our complete 
reporting, visit chevron.com/reporting.

If you are interested in learning more or
continuing the conversation, we welcome you to 
engage with us on social media.

facebook.com/chevron

@chevroncr

linkedin.com/company/chevron

youtube.com/chevron

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council®–certified 
Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-consumer waste. 
It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are 
expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel, New York

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

© 2017 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386N (5-17) (5M)

