Energy Partnership

2007 Corporate Responsibility Report

How do you build sustainable 
partnerships that benefit 
communities while meeting  
the world’s growing demand  
for energy?

We believe lasting partnerships are built on ingenuity, collaboration and  
trust. These relationships are fundamental to our ability to develop 
energy that contributes to economic and social progress. In the lowlands 
surrounding our Bibiyana natural gas project in Bangladesh, we work closely 
with community members, local leaders and nongovernmental organizations 
to create programs that support family businesses, improve health care 
services and schools, and create jobs for local residents.

On the cover: Fisherman Rukum Uddin casts his net along the Norkhai River adjacent to 
Chevron’s Bibiyana natural gas project in Bangladesh.

This page: Tofayel Ahmed Pathan is one of several villagers who run family-owned fishing 
businesses near Chevron’s Bibiyana natural gas project in Bangladesh. He participated in 
the Livelihood Program, a partnership between Chevron and Friends in Village Development 
Bangladesh that supports local microbusinesses.

Introduction

	 1  Welcome
	 2  A Message From Our CEO
	 3  Chevron at a Glance
	 4  Performance Overview
	 6  How We Conduct Our Business
	 8  Stakeholder Engagement
	11  Executive Interview
	12  Priorities, Progress and Plans

Socioeconomic

	14  Introduction
	16   Global Strategic Workforce  

  Development

	18  Health and Safety
	21  Supply Chain Management
	22  Community Engagement
	25  Human Rights

 26  Case Study: Asia-Pacific

Environment and  
Climate Change

	28  Introduction
	30  Climate Change
	34  Renewable Energy
	36  Environmental Management

Resources

	39  About This Report

  Assurance Statement

	40  Glossary

   GRI and API/IPIECA Index

Welcome

Chevron’s sixth annual Corporate Responsibility Report 
provides descriptions, data and perspective on our 
socioeconomic and environmental performance for 2007. 
The initiatives and accomplishments described herein 
reflect our efforts toward achieving our vision, described 
in The Chevron Way, to be the global energy company 
most admired for its people, partnership and performance. 
That vision and the values and strategies that support it 
are the foundation for how and what we achieved in 2007.

1

	
	
A Message From Our CEO

Dave O’Reilly
Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer

Our mission is to find and produce the energy the world needs 
today and tomorrow in a way that is consistent with our values. 
Meeting the world’s demand for energy takes ingenuity, perform-
ance and partnership. At Chevron, the combined efforts of our 
59,000 employees around the world help economies grow and 
create a sustainable future. Continued progress toward this goal 
will require new levels of  collaboration and innovation.

Chevron’s 2007 Annual Report, titled Energy > Ingenuity, describes 
how we are rising to the challenge — every day — of meeting 
growing energy demand. From working at the frontier of ultra-
deepwater technology to reducing carbon emissions, Chevron is 
committed to developing more energy from more sources in an 
environmentally responsible way.

Our values guide our work every day. We recognize that how we 
conduct our work is fundamental to achieving our business goals. 
The vision, values and strategies in The Chevron Way are available 
in 14 languages for our employees. They are grounded in benefit-
ing communities, protecting the environment, supporting human 
rights and working in an ethical manner.

Partnerships help us achieve our mission and demonstrate our 
values. Chevron is engaged in partnerships that span the breadth 
of our business. In 2007, we met several milestones for  existing 
partnerships and established new ones to advance our work 
around the globe.

vocational training school in Indonesia. A new corporate process 
was launched to identify and develop sustainable solutions to  
the impacts of capital projects. Our support for the fight against 
HIV/AIDS continued with a new multimillion-dollar partnership. 
With others inside and outside our industry, we participated in the 
development of the U.S. National Petroleum Council’s comprehen-
sive study to evaluate the global energy outlook and recommend 
an integrated strategy to meet future energy challenges. We 
launched a new public awareness campaign on energy — facts, 
challenges and solutions. New research alliances were created to 
develop clean fuels, which help reduce carbon emissions.

During 2007, we remained focused on achieving our target of 
zero incidents. While our overall safety performance continued 
to improve, 17 people died working for us. We will continue to 
dedicate the work and resources necessary to meet our target and 
help our employees go home to their families safe, every day.

We conduct business in a complex global environment. The energy 
challenges we face as an industry and as a society are formidable. 
However, throughout our company’s history, we have embraced 
challenges as opportunities to achieve results, the right way.  
Our dedication to collaboration and innovation  supports our 
 commitment to be the partner of choice in the energy industry.

The Angola Partnership Initiative celebrated its fifth anniversary. 
We expanded our existing alliance with the Discovery Channel 
Global Education Partnership and began constructing a second 

Dave O’Reilly 
May 2008

2

 
 
 
 
Chevron at a Glance

Chevron is one of the world’s leading 
integrated energy companies, with sub-
sidiaries that conduct business across the 
globe. Our success is driven by the ingenuity 
and commitment of approximately 59,000 
employees who operate across the energy 
spectrum. We explore for, produce and 
transport crude oil and natural gas; refine, 
market and distribute transportation fuels 
and other energy products; manufacture 
and sell petrochemical products; generate 
power and produce geothermal energy; 
provide energy efficiency solutions; and 
develop and commercialize the energy 
resources of the future, including biofuels 
and other renewables. Our major business 
strategies are focused on developing lead-
ing integrated positions in growth areas 
of the world, as well as investing in renew-
able technologies.

Upstream and Gas
Chevron’s upstream strategy is to grow 
profitably in core areas and build new legacy 
positions. In 2007, our operations’ net oil-
equivalent production averaged 2.62 million 
barrels per day, including volumes produced 
from oil sands in Canada. Major producing 
areas include Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, 
Bangladesh, Denmark, Indonesia, Kazakh-
stan, Nigeria, the Partitioned Neutral Zone 
between Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, Thailand, 
the United Kingdom, the United States, and 
Venezuela. Major exploration areas include 
western Africa, Australia, Brazil, Canada, 
the Gulf of Thailand, the Norwegian Barents 
Sea, the international waters between 
Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela, the U.K. 
Atlantic Margin, and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.

Our gas strategy is to commercialize our 
equity gas resource base while growing a 
high-impact global gas business. We hold 
the largest natural gas resource position 
in Australia and have significant holdings 
in western Africa, Bangladesh, Indonesia, 
Kazakhstan, North America, South America, 
Thailand, and the United Kingdom.

Downstream
Chevron’s downstream strategy is to 
improve returns and selectively grow  
with a focus on integrated value creation.  
In 2007, we processed approximately  
1.8 million barrels of crude oil per day  
and averaged approximately 3.5 million 
barrels per day of refined products sales 
worldwide. Downstream’s most significant 
areas of operations are the Asia-Pacific 
region and North America. We hold interests 
in 18 fuel refineries and one asphalt plant 
and market under the Chevron, Texaco  
and Caltex motor fuel brands. Products  
are sold through a network of more than 
25,000 retail stations, including those of 
affiliated companies.

Renewable Energy
Chevron’s renewable energy strategy is to 
invest in renewable energy technologies 
and capture profitable positions. Through 
our geothermal operations in Indonesia 
and the Philippines, we are currently the 
world’s leading private producer of geo-
thermal energy. Chevron Energy Solutions 
Co.  delivers energy efficiency and power 
system solutions to external and internal 
clients. Chevron Technology Ventures LLC 
focuses on innovation, commercialization 

and integration of emerging technologies 
and related business models within Chevron. 
Its business development portfolio includes 
biofuels, hydrogen, venture capital and 
renewable energy applications.

Other Businesses
Chevron is engaged in additional  businesses 
across the energy value chain. Our 50-50 
joint venture Chevron Phillips Chemical 
Co. LLC is a leading manufacturer of 
petrochemicals. Chevron Oronite Co. LLC 
markets performance-enhancing products 
and supplies fuel and lubricant additives. 
Other businesses include mining and 
power generation.

Chevron is a publicly traded company listed 
on the New York Stock Exchange. Additional 
information on our corporate structure, 
operations and brands can be found on our 
Web site: www.chevron.com.

Photos below, left: In early 2008, Chevron 
coordinated with the U.S. Coast Guard, 
weather forecasters and others to predict a 
narrow weather and tidal window to tow the 
Tahiti production platform’s 24,000-ton hull. 
It was transported without incident from 
the Texas coast to deep water in the U.S. 
Gulf of Mexico. Right: In 2007, Chevron’s 
Burnaby Refinery in British Columbia, 
Canada, marked the 10th anniversary of 
its Community Advisory Panel. Through 
ongoing collaboration with neighbors, 
environmental regulators and community 
leaders, the refinery has made significant 
progress toward emissions reduction and 
other issues affecting the community.

3

Performance Overview

We strive to achieve world-class performance 
in our business by operating responsibly, 
according to the vision and values of The 
Chevron Way. Below are sum maries of impor-
tant performance achievements and events 
from 2007.

Corporate ESHIA
Chevron’s Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process was 
released in 2007 and is being implemented 
across the global enterprise. The process 
is being applied to all new capital projects 
to identify, analyze and develop measures 
to enhance benefits and mitigate environ-
mental, social and health impacts. Following 
the adoption of an updated Corporate 
Biodiversity Statement in 2007, biodiversity 
assessments are now part of ESHIA.

Community Engagement
During 2007, we invested $119 million in 
 community engagement initiatives globally. 
Approxi mately 68 percent was targeted to 
basic human needs, education and training, 
and support for local businesses. As part 
of our ESHIA process, we conducted social 
impact assessments and stakeholder engage-
ment trainings in eight countries. Progress 
was made with community groups in Nigeria’s 
Niger Delta to gradually shift control of com-
munity development programs to Regional 
Development Councils, which represent 
local communities. A five-year-anniversary 
report on our $25 million Angola Partnership 

Initiative demonstrated concrete results. 
Our Energy for Learning initiative invested 
more than $10 million in 23 Mississippi and 
Louisiana school districts as part of a three-
year, $18 million commitment. The Chevron 
Management Institute trained 46 leaders of 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in 
leadership workshops in the United States 
and Venezuela; more than 320 NGO leaders 
have been trained since 1995.

Operational Excellence
We continued to implement our Operational 
Excellence Management System (OEMS) by 
integrating OE environmental performance 
objectives and guidance into our operations. 
We launched programs to improve our  
ability to identify root causes of incidents, 
share best practices and improve perform-
ance. Training was expanded to improve the 
reliability and safety of our operations.

Health and Safety
In 2007, Chevron became the first Corporate 
Champion of the Global Fund to Fight  
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, allocating 
$30 million over three years to combat 
these diseases. More than 17,000  employees 
have been provided with HIV/AIDS preven-
tion and awareness training since the global  
implementation of our HIV/AIDS policy 
began three years ago. We continued to 
place a high priority on safety in our opera-
tions. However, we experienced 17 workforce 
fatalities in 2007 that resulted from nine  

incidents. We remain committed to reducing 
all incidents to zero.

Climate Change and Energy Efficiency
In early 2007, we adopted seven policy  
principles we believe are necessary for  
the development of flexible and economically 
sound climate change policies and continued 
implementing our Action Plan on Climate 
Change, now in its sixth year. We continued to 
work at the U.S. federal and state levels and 
internationally to build consensus on climate 
change policy and regulations. Our Gorgon 
liquefied natural gas  project off the coast 
of Australia, which includes a proposal to 
build one of the largest carbon dioxide (CO2) 
sequestration programs in the world, received 
environmental approvals. In 2007, Chevron 
emitted 60.7 million metric tons of CO2 
equivalent, performing better than our goal 
of 63.5 million metric tons. Energy efficiency 
has improved by 27 percent since 1992.

Renewable Energy
Chevron established two additional strategic 
alliances with government and academic 
institutions to research and develop new 
technologies for converting nonfood sources 
into biofuels. In early 2008, we announced  
a 50-50 joint venture with Weyerhaeuser Co. 
focused on developing renewable transpor-
tation fuels from nonfood sources. Also, 
our subsidiary Chevron Energy Solutions 
announced several renewable power and 
energy efficiency projects.

2007 Performance 
Recognition

Chevron’s 2007 practices 
and performance were 
acknowledged by 
several independent 
organizations.

4

•  The Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North America included Chevron for the 

third year in a row.

•  Fortune magazine ranked Chevron ninth among Fortune Global 100 companies 
for how well the company has integrated responsible business practices into its 
business. Chevron was the only U.S. company listed in the top 10.

•  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. rated Chevron in the top 4 percent of oil and 
gas companies for corporate governance in early 2008. Chevron received a rating 
of 9.5 out of 10 from GovernanceMetrics International, Inc.

•  The Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index gave Chevron a rating of 

100 percent on its Equality Index for the third straight year.

•  The Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria recognized 

Chevron’s efforts to help fight HIV/AIDS with its Award for Business Excellence on 
HIV/AIDS in the Workplace.

•  The Women’s Business Enterprise National Council named Chevron one of the top 

U.S. corporations providing growth opportunities to women business owners for the 
fifth consecutive year.

Key Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators

Socioeconomic 

Fatalities (workforce)  

Days Away From Work Rate (workforce incidents per 200,000 hours worked) 

Total Recordable Incident Rate (workforce incidents per 200,000 hours worked) 
Company motor vehicle incidents (per million miles driven)1 
Percent of females and non-Caucasian males at the senior executive level worldwide 

Percent of females at midlevel positions and above worldwide 

Total corporatewide spending in community investment (US$ millions) 

Environmental 

Number of petroleum spills 

Volume of petroleum spills (barrels) 

Global VOC emissions (thousands of metric tons) 

Global SOx emissions (thousands of metric tons) 

Global NOx emissions (thousands of metric tons) 

Number of environmental, health and safety fines and settlements 
Total GHG emissions (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent) 
GHG emissions from flaring and venting (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent)  
Energy efficiency performance (percentage improvement since 1992 baseline) 

2006	

2007 
Goals are shown 
in brackets

12	

0.09	

0.42	

0.82	

21.4	

10.3	

90.8	

803	

6,099	

384	

118	

138	

699	

61.5	

16.4	

27	

17	[0]	

0.07	[0.08]	

0.35	

0.82	

24.5	

10.6	

119	

826	

9,245	

261	

92	

145	

684	

60.7	[63.5]	

14.5	

27	[27]	

Page

18,	19	

18,	19 

18,	19 

20

16 

16

22,	23

36,	37 

36,	37	

37	

37	

37 

38

30,	31	

30–32	

30,	31

Key:  Area of performance improvement  Area of performance decline  Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline

VOCs (volatile organic compounds)  SOx (sulfur oxides)  NOx (nitrogen oxides)  GHGs (greenhouse gases)  CO2 (carbon dioxide)
1  2006 and 2007 data are based on a revised classification system adopted by the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers.

Financial Highlights
US$ millions, except per-share amounts

Operating Highlights 2

2006	

2007

2006	

2007

Net income 

$17,138		

$18,688

Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 

1,732	

1,756 

Sales and other operating revenues 
Capital and exploratory expenditures1 
Total assets at year-end 

Total debt at year-end 

Stockholders’ equity at year-end 

Per-share data

  — Net income — diluted 

  — Cash dividends 

  — Common stock price at year-end 

Return on average stockholders’ equity 

Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio 

Tax expense

  — U.S. income taxes 

  — International income taxes 

  — Taxes other than on income 

Research and development 

Stock repurchases 

1  Includes equity in affiliates 

$204,892	

$214,091

$16,611	

$20,026

$132,628	

$148,796

$9,838	

$7,232

$68,935	

$77,088

$7.80	

$2.01	

$73.53	

26.0%	

12.5%	

$8.77

$2.26

$93.33

25.6%

8.6%

$3,609	

$2,009

$11,229	

$11,470

$20,883	

$22,266

$468	

$562

$5,000	

$7,000

(Thousands of barrels per day)

Net production of natural gas (Millions of cubic feet per day) 

4,956	

5,019

Other produced volumes (Thousands of barrels per day) 

109	

27

Net oil-equivalent production  

(Thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day) 

Refinery input (Thousands of barrels per day) 

Sales of refined products (Thousands of barrels per day) 

Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate  
  and natural gas liquids (Millions of barrels)

  — Affiliated companies 

  — Consolidated companies 
Net proved reserves of natural gas3 (Billions of cubic feet)
  — Affiliated companies 

  — Consolidated companies 
Net proved oil-equivalent reserves3 (Millions of barrels)
  — Affiliated companies 

2,667	

1,989	

3,621	

2,619

1,833

3,484

2,512	

5,294	

2,422

4,665

2,974	

3,003

19,910	

19,137

3,008	

2,922

  — Consolidated companies 

Number of employees at year-end 

Total payroll (US$ billions) 

8,612	

7,855
  55,8824	 59,1625
4.02

3.50	

Employee benefit costs (US$ millions) 

1,742	

2,100

2  Includes equity in affiliates except number of employees, total payroll and 
  employee benefit costs
3  At year-end
4  Excludes approximately 6,600 service station personnel
5  Excludes approximately 5,900 service station personnel

5

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How We Conduct Our Business

The Chevron Way  
and Corporate Responsibility
The vision, values and strategies described 
in The Chevron Way serve as the founda-
tion for how we conduct our business. They 
provide a common understanding of who 
we are, what we believe, what we plan to 
achieve and how we plan to achieve it —  
for our employees and for all who interact  
with us.

Our definition of corporate responsibility  
is rooted in consistently applying the  
core values set out in The Chevron Way. 
Across our global enterprise, we believe 
in maximizing the positive impact of our 
operations on current and future genera-
tions. We integrate social, environmental 
and economic considerations into our 
core practices and decision making, which 
includes engaging and balancing the needs 
of stakeholders. These corporate responsi-
bility expectations support us in achieving 
our business goals.

Responsible and Ethical Conduct
Our management systems, processes 
and policies, which include our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, Business Conduct 
and Ethics Code, and Operational Excellence 
Management System, are aligned with  
The Chevron Way and are fundamental  
to our commitment to operate in a respon-
sible and ethical manner everywhere  
we work.

Corporate Governance
Chevron is committed to sound principles of 
corporate governance. These are primarily 
reflected in our Certificate of Incorporation, 
bylaws and Corporate Governance Guide-
lines. We actively monitor governance trends 
and revise our own governance practices as 
appropriate. For example, in 2007 we:

•  Eliminated the supermajority vote provi-
sions in our Certificate of Incorporation.

•  Amended our bylaws to require that in 

an uncontested election, a director must 
receive more “for” than “against” votes 
or must submit an offer of resignation to 
the board.

•  Amended our bylaws to require that the 
board chairman be elected annually by 
the board.

•  Amended our corporate governance 

principles to clarify the role and responsi-
bilities of the lead independent director.

stockholder proposal not supported by the 
board that receives a majority of votes cast 
at the annual meeting. Stockholders can 
recommend director candidates for consid-
eration by the board.

Business Ethics
Chevron conducts business in accordance 
with the highest ethical standards and  
in compliance with the letter and spirit  
of applicable laws in countries where we  
operate. Our Business Conduct and Ethics 
Code (BC&E Code) communicates to  
our employees the values that guide our 
actions and decision making worldwide.

Employees are required to read and 
acknowledge that they will abide by the 
BC&E Code, which is available in 12 lan-
guages. The code is reviewed, updated and 
redeployed  periodically. It will be updated 
in 2008 and will include Chevron’s Human 
Rights Statement.

We have shown our commitment to good 
governance in other ways as well. Five new 
directors have been added since 2004. All 
of our directors stand for election each year. 
A majority of our directors are independ-
ent. All board committees are composed 
of nonemployee directors and committee 
chairpersons, and assignments are rotated 
frequently. A lead independent director 
is selected annually to chair executive 
sessions. The board will reconsider any 

All employees are required to report any 
questionable conduct to management,  
legal counsel, Human Resources, Global 
Security, Internal Audit or the Chevron 
Hotline. Reports of questionable conduct 
may involve, for instance, violations of the 
law, the BC&E Code or company policies.

The Chevron Hotline is operated offsite by 
Global Compliance Services (AlertLine®), 
an independent agent. Employees and 

Chevron’s Piceance Basin natural gas project in 
the U.S. state of Colorado uses the company’s 
Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment process to determine possible impacts 
of proposed operations. Community outreach 
led to local safety improvements and continues 
to inform stakeholders about project plans. The 
operation uses the latest generation of directional 
drilling rigs, allowing multiple wells to be drilled 
from the same location to minimize the project’s 
footprint. To read more, please see page 36.

6

contractors can access the hotline 24 hours 
a day by the Internet, multilingual phone 
line or letter. All hotline reports are received 
and reviewed by the corporation’s chief 
compliance officer, chief corporate coun-
sel and the corporation’s hotline program 
coordinator. If appropriate, these matters 
are elevated to the Audit Committee of 
the Board of Directors. Submissions to the 
hotline can be made anonymously. Chevron 
does not tolerate any form of retaliation for 
reports made in good faith to the hotline.

In 2007, AlertLine® received 445 calls, 
compared with 262 calls in 2006 and 275 
in 2005. During 2007, we conducted a 
hotline employee-awareness campaign 
and took steps to improve ease of use and 
access to the hotline companywide. The 
largest percentage of calls pertained to 
three classifications:

56%
• People management issues 
15%
• Financial and internal controls 
12%
• Internet/mail incidents 
Internet/mail incidents refers to fraudulent proposals from 
non-Chevron representatives made to individuals, businesses 
and organizations.

Oversight of the compliance program is 
a companywide effort that extends from 
business units to the Board of Directors. 
The board’s Audit Committee, which is sup-
ported by the Corporate Compliance Policy 
Committee composed of senior executives, 
governs our companywide compliance 
program. Each reporting unit has its own 

compliance or audit committee to manage 
the responsibilities specific to that organiza-
tion. The board’s Audit Committee reviews 
the company’s internal auditing practices 
and is responsible for corporate compli-
ance oversight.

Operational Excellence
Our commitment to operational excellence 
(OE) is embodied in The Chevron Way value 
of protecting people and the environment. 
We define OE as the systematic manage-
ment of safety, health, the environment, 
reliability and efficiency. OE objectives 
are integrated at all levels of our global 
enterprise by our Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS).

To advance OE objectives globally, an 
Operational Excellence Governance Board 
endorses policy, processes and standards 
supported by the Health, Environment 
and Safety Steering Committee and the 
Reliability Steering Committee. Corporate 
OE reviews assess both the design and 
effectiveness of processes in meeting  
OE requirements. We continue to build  
OE capability: by the end of 2007, more than 
13,000 Chevron employees had completed 
OE training for leaders and 9,330 had 
achieved OE certification.

We will continue to place a priority on 
implementing our OE processes across our 
business over the next several years.

The Chevron Way

Vision
At the heart of The Chevron Way is our 
vision . . . to be the global energy company 
most admired for its people, partnership  
and performance.

Values
Our company’s foundation is built on our 
values, which distinguish us and guide 
our actions. We conduct our business in a 
socially responsible and ethical manner. We 
respect the law, support universal human 
rights, protect the environment and benefit 
the communities where we work.

Our values are: integrity, trust, diversity, 
ingenuity, partnership, protecting people 
and the environment, and high performance.

The Chevron Way also includes four  
major business strategies and three 
enabling strategies. To read more about  
The Chevron Way, please visit our Web site 
at www.chevron.com/about/chevronway/. 

In Kazakhstan, contractor Svetlana Pavlova is a 
safety management engineer with Tengizchevroil, 
in which Chevron is a 50 percent partner. As 
Kazakhstan’s largest private oil producer, Chevron 
holds important stakes in the nation’s two biggest-
producing oil projects — Tengiz and Karachaganak. 
In 2007, Tengizchevroil purchased approximately 
$1.2 billion in goods and services from local 
suppliers and contractors.

7

Stakeholder Engagement

Constructive dialogue with our stakeholders 
helps us identify, understand and man-
age issues and make informed decisions 
that contribute to our business success. 
Stakeholder engagement is integrated 
into our business processes and systems. 
During 2007, we engaged with a wide range 
of stakeholders — including  stockholders, 
governments, communities, external experts 
and nongovernmental organizations — 
as described in the table on page 9 and 
throughout this report.

ESHIA
Our Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process, 
deployed as a corporate process in early 
2007, requires that all new capital projects 
be evaluated for potential environmental, 
social and health impacts. ESHIA is used to 
anticipate and plan the manner in which sig-
nificant impacts are mitigated and benefits 
are enhanced during the planning, construc-
tion, operation and decommissioning of a 
project. Stakeholder engagement is central 
to the ESHIA process throughout the life of 
a project.

By early 2008, ESHIA was being applied to 
nearly 20 capital projects worldwide, includ-
ing the Piceance Basin project in western 
Colorado, described on page 36.

Political Contributions 
Chevron has strict policies and internal 
approval processes so that our decision 
making and reporting on political contri-
butions comply with the letter and spirit 
of all applicable laws. Contributions made 
by Chevron are planned, budgeted, legally 
reviewed and approved in advance by 

management, including approval by the 
Executive Committee.

In 2007, we made nearly $1.9 million in 
 corporate political contributions to candi-
dates and political organizations that 
support economic development, free 
enterprise and good governance. This total 
included contributions to support our views 
on local and state ballot measures.

Chevron employees, through the Chevron 
Employees Political Action Committee 
(CEPAC), contributed $255,000 in 2007  
to the election of candidates from both  
parties for U.S. federal office, as well as  
to local and state candidates in certain  
U.S. jurisdictions.

By policy, CEPAC does not contribute to 
presidential candidates or national political 
parties.

A listing of federal contributions made 
by CEPAC during this election cycle can 
be viewed on the U.S. Federal Election 
Commission Web site. In addition, each  
year we post a list of our corporate political 
contributions made during the previous  
year on our external Web site. 

Lobbying
Lobbying is an essential and  constructive 
part of the political process. We lobby 
ethically, constructively and in a bipartisan 
manner through direct communication  
with public officials. We also encourage our  
employees, stockholders and others to com-
municate with officials where permitted by 
law. Chevron complies with all registration 
and reporting regulations related to our 
 lobbying activities.

Engaging With Stockholders 
Chevron makes available quarterly, annual 
and periodic reports, press releases and 
other information to keep current and 
potential stockholders informed. We meet 
frequently with stockholders throughout  
the year to discuss governance, environ-
mental, social and policy issues. Qualifying 
stockholders also can submit proposals 
to be voted upon at our annual meetings. 
During the 2008 proxy season, we received  
10 stockholder proposals. Three were 
excluded because they did not meet the 
SEC’s legal requirements for  inclusion,  
and one was withdrawn after dialogue  
with the proponents. We expect the  
remaining proposals will be voted on at 
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 
May 2008.

Revenue Transparency
Chevron believes that public disclosure of 
payments made by extractive industries 
to governments and revenues received 
by governments could lead to improved 
governance in resource-rich countries. Good 
governance contributes to stable, long-term 
investment climates and the subsequent 
improvement of local economies and well-
being of communities. 

In 2007, Chevron continued to participate 
in the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative (EITI). Chevron served as a board 
member until April 2007, at which time it 
began service as an alternate. The company 
also helped support the establishment 
of the EITI’s Secretariat, which opened in 
September in Oslo, Norway.

The Pwllcrochan Environmental and Community Centre is an important 
part of the biodiversity action plan and community and stakeholder 
outreach efforts of Chevron’s Pembroke Refinery in Wales. After the 
refinery consulted with the Pembrokeshire County Council, the Orielton 
Field Study Centre and the U.K. Prince’s Trust charity, the center was 
opened on refinery property. Since 2001, more than 1,600 youth have 
volunteered to help build boardwalks through the marshland. Chevron 
sponsors programs led by environmental experts for students and 
the community.

8

Stakeholder

Profile

How We Engaged in 2007

Stockholders

Registered and beneficial stockholders  
of record

•  Annual Meeting of Stockholders
•  Annual Report
•  Discussions with proponents of stockholder proposals

Employees

Approximately 59,000 Chevron employees  
(as of December 31, 2007)

•  Global Employee Survey
•  Compliance hotline
•  Chevron ombudspersons
•  Worldwide employee teleconference with senior management
•  Monthly chairman’s letter
•  Employee networks 
•  Training and development programs
•  Onboarding process for new employees

Suppliers

Approximately $35 billion spent globally on 
goods and services in 2007 with a network 
of suppliers that range from multinational 
companies to small, locally owned businesses

•  U.S. and non-U.S. small business, supplier diversity and  

local content programs

•  Supplier development and safety forums
•  Participating in supplier-oriented organizations 

Governments

Governments in countries where we  
conduct business

•  Negotiating operating contracts 
•  Collaborating on global voluntary initiatives such as the  
  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
•   Participating in a study by the National Petroleum Council, an 

advisory committee to the U.S. secretary of energy

•  Engaging in direct dialogue
•  Attending conferences and meetings
•  Partnering in joint research and social development programs
•  Promoting road safety through Arrive Alive

Customers

Commodity markets, wholesale and retail 
customers

•  Regional and in-country customer service support offices
•  U.S. Retail Marketing Center and U.S. Consumer Connection Center 

Local communities

Numerous communities around the world 
where Chevron’s facilities are located

•  Community engagement programs and outreach
•  Input from and dialogue with communities before and  
  during major capital projects
•  Employee volunteerism and U.S. matching contributions program

Nongovernmental 
organizations

Numerous business forums, multilateral 
institutions, philanthropic foundations, 
academic institutions, think tanks, faith-based 
groups, and development organizations

•  Participating in multistakeholder forums and initiatives
•  Engaging in direct dialogue
•  Attending conferences and meetings

Pairin Raggatanyoo, Chevron’s assistant manager of 
Corporate Responsibility in Bangkok, Thailand, participated 
in an Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 
conference in Tangerang, Indonesia, in June 2007. The 
conference focused on reviewing regional case studies,  
sharing best practices and building the skills of social  
impact assessment practitioners from throughout Chevron’s 
Asia-Pacific operations.

9

 
Supporting Collaboration  
to Address Energy Security
Chevron supports collaborative efforts 
to develop solutions that will provide the 
energy for sustained global prosperity 
and growth. In 2007, our executives and 
other employees participated in the U.S. 
National Petroleum Council’s (NPC) study 
of global energy prospects and markets. 
The report, Facing the Hard Truths About 
Energy, included input by more than 1,000 
contributors from academia, government, 
nongovernmental organizations and the 
private sector. The NPC is an advisory 
committee on oil and gas issues to the 
U.S. secretary of energy.

The report detailed several “hard truths,” 
including the following: Coal, oil and natural 
gas will remain indispensable to meeting 
projected global demand through 2030. 
The world is not running out of energy 
resources, but there are accumulating risks 
to continuing expansion of oil and natural 
gas production from historically conven-
tional sources. To mitigate these risks, all 
economic energy resources — coal, nuclear, 
renewables and unconventional oil and 
gas — are needed. However, each carries 
challenges that include safety, environ-
mental, political and economic hurdles. 
The report stated that policies to curb 
carbon emissions will alter the energy mix, 
increase energy-related costs and require 
reductions in demand growth.

The report recommended immediate and 
sustained action by policymakers due  
to the long lead times required to make 
changes. A framework of five core strat-
egies included moderating demand by 
increasing energy efficiency; expanding and 
diversifying energy supplies; integrating 

5Facts 

About Energy 
Security

10

Raising Awareness  
of Global Energy Issues

We believe that an informed public will contribute to sound energy policies that  
encourage additional investment in energy supplies, improve energy security and  
foster economic growth.

In September 2007, Chevron launched a global advertising campaign designed to  
engage people in energy issues. We enhanced our corporate Web site www.chevron.com 
with discussion of issues of public interest such as climate change, renewable energy  
and HIV/AIDS.

We also launched Energyville, an online interactive game developed with The Economist 
Group, to help engage the public about the trade-offs and complexities associated with 
different energy sources. Individual players make energy decisions that have economic, 
environmental and security impacts on their city.

Energyville is hosted on willyoujoinus.com, an energy discussion forum created by 
Chevron in 2005. More than 2 million participants from 200 countries have visited the 
site since its launch. The Aspen Institute, an international nonprofit, provides an analysis 
of all discussions on willyoujoinus.com.

energy policy into trade, economic,  
 environmental, security and foreign pol-
icies; strengthening trade and investment;  
enhancing technology in all phases of 
the energy supply and demand system; 
and developing the legal and regulatory 
framework to capture and sequester 
carbon emissions. The study recognized 
that there is no single solution to energy 
security needs. For the United States, 
there can be no national energy security 
without global energy security. Instead, 
an integrated, collaborative and sus-
tained approach taking action on each 
of these recommendations is required. 
Additional information is available 
at www.npc.org/.

Executive Outreach
In addition to participation in the NPC study 
described above, during 2007 and early 
2008 our senior executives appeared in 
numerous public forums and media events 
discussing energy security and policy issues. 
Their outreach efforts were designed to 
educate public, government, nongovern-
ment and private sector stakeholders, as 
well as to engage in dialogue. For example, 
executives spoke at the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation’s Australia 2007 
Business Summit, the World Economic 
Forum’s 2008 Annual Meeting in Davos, 
Switzerland, the Aspen Ideas Festival, Town 
Hall Los Angeles, and the Commonwealth 
Club of California.

 1  Efficiency is the first and best source of  
    new energy.
2  Renewables will double in 25 years —  
    and we will still need fossil fuels to satisfy  
    85 percent of consumption.
3  Major investments are occurring to  
    meet demand. 
4  Substantial financial strength is required  
    to make large, long-term investments.
5  There is much untapped resource —  
    access is the issue.

Energy is critical to human progress, and 
addressing energy security is a complex chal-
lenge. The energy sector is one of massive 
scale, extended time horizons and vast distances 
involving a wide array of stakeholders —  
governments, nongovernmental organizations, 
communities, companies and consumers. The 
Five Facts About Energy Security was developed 
by Chevron and based on U.S.-government and 
other third-party sources. For more information, 
please go to www.chevron.com/globalissues/.

Executive Interview

Rhonda Zygocki
Vice President for Policy, Government  
and Public Affairs

Rhonda Zygocki is responsible for Chevron’s global government 
relations, internal and external communications, and initiatives  
to enhance Chevron’s reputation.

How has corporate responsibility evolved at Chevron  
in the six years that the company has published its report?

Within our company, supplying energy responsibly is at the heart 
of our value system — The Chevron Way. Reporting on our cor-
porate responsibility (CR) activities allows us to share the many 
ways we bring those values to life in our business. It is also a great 
way for employees to see the strong connection between their 
ongoing work and our CR objectives. Over the six years we have 
been reporting our CR successes, challenges and aspirations, I see 
two important trends. Internally, we are increasingly integrating 
action on CR issues into core business processes. For example, our 
recently implemented Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment process is being applied to capital projects to address 
multiple CR areas. Externally, energy security is receiving greater 
attention from governments, businesses, nongovernmental 
organizations and communities. There is growing consensus that 
secure energy supplies and environmental and socioeconomic 
performance are interdependent and must be addressed together 
through partnership and collaboration. We couldn’t agree more.

How has the CR Report changed to respond to these  
and other developments?

I think the report is more responsive to stakeholder interests.  
It has consistently reported on both ongoing work and new  
initiatives across a range of core CR issues as well as how all of 
these actions are integrated into the business. This is the fourth 
year we’ve included a summary table in the report that compares 
our intentions with our achievements. This format is an effective 

way to communicate our commitment to operating responsibly 
and show measured progress. In response to stakeholder feed-
back, we engaged Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance to verify  
our process for collecting health, environmental and safety data. 
And the report evolves in step with the issues. We have reported 
annually on our climate change–related actions in our operations. 
In 2007, we also shared our principles for sound climate policy, 
which is a topic of current debate. This year, we share our views  
on energy security, and as you read our sixth report, the theme  
of partnership and collaboration will be clearly evident.

How does Chevron’s commitment to operating in a  
responsible manner reflect how the company is engaging 
stakeholders and the public?

We believe energy is one of the critical issues of our time. There  
is unprecedented interest by governments, nongovernmental 
organizations, communities and the public in energy development. 
More than ever before, proactively engaging our stakeholders 
is integral to our success. Extensive stakeholder engagement is 
built into our processes for major capital projects, and community 
awareness and outreach are core elements of our Operational 
Excellence Management System. These engagements connect 
people — face to face — to build trust so that health, environmental 
and safety aspects of our operations and new energy develop-
ments will be managed in a responsible way. Recognizing the 
importance of stakeholder engagement, we have invested in 
tools and training to increase our effectiveness. Recognizing the 
importance of energy, we have also invested in innovative public 
awareness campaigns to foster dialogue on energy issues among 
people from around the world. As a responsible operator, we are 
extending engagement beyond our facilities to the issues of global 
energy delivery.

11

Priorities, Progress and Plans

Page

Priority Area

  What We Said We Would Do in 2007

  What We Did in 2007

  What We Plan to Do Next

6 Continuous Integration of 

Corporate Responsibility 
Into Our Business

8 Stakeholder  

Engagement

16 Global Strategic  

Workforce Development

18 Health and Safety  

(including HIV/AIDS)

22 Community  

Engagement

25 Human Rights
30 Climate Change,  

Renewables and  
Energy Efficiency

36 Environmental  

Management

A solar array at Chevron’s 
Fellows, California, operations.

12

• 

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 

Continue with Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 
implementation across the company.
Begin rollout of Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 
(ESHIA) process across our global operations.
Continue using OEMS self-assessment process.

Increase communication on our record of responsible corporate 
actions and policies, together with our business strategies,  
in recruiting efforts.
Deploy leadership development programs.
Conduct a Global Employee Survey with targeted questions  
on what makes employees stay with the company.

Continue safety focus, aiming toward long-term goal of  
zero incidents.
Continue companywide deployment of corporate standard  
process for managing risk.
Continue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy.
Collaborate with other companies to implement health initiatives.
Continue implementing the Arrive Alive road safety initiative.
Host fifth annual Operational Excellence (OE) Forum.

Use ESHIA process to further strengthen stakeholder engagement.
Conduct stakeholder engagement training and make tools available 
to business units.
Continue aligning our corporate responsibility (CR) and annual 
reporting processes.
Continue posting corporate political contributions made during  
the previous year on www.chevron.com.
Continue engaging with stakeholders to improve our CR reporting.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Advanced OEMS implementation across the company with ongoing training and 

Continue with OEMS implementation across the company.

certification, and strengthened OEMS compliance assurance capability.

Deployed ESHIA as a corporate standard for new projects.

Deploy corporate standard Compliance Assurance process.

Sustain rollout of ESHIA for new projects, including stakeholder  

Advanced commitment to good corporate governance by implementing a majority-

and community engagement components.

vote standard for election of directors in uncontested elections and by providing  

Roll out updated Business Conduct & Ethics (BC&E) Code  

for a director resignation provision.

to our employees.

Strengthened stakeholder engagement through ESHIA training.

Undertake stakeholder engagement activities to progress  

Integrated CR and Annual Report planning and production process.

Posted corporate political contributions on 

www.chevron.com.

Sought input from stakeholders to improve CR reporting. 

Engaged Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance for verification of data reporting process.

Launched global campaigns to engage the public on energy issues, including 

advertising and Energyville online game. 

CR approach and reporting.

verification.

Engage Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance for ongoing third-party 

Continue to engage the public in discussion on energy issues.

Provided new employment for more than 7,000 people across the globe.

Continue to provide new employment across our operations.

Expanded communication in recruiting efforts by emphasizing our values and culture.

Continue to implement global partnership programs to attract  

Added new programs to help attract the best talent from around the world, including  

and hire talented people.

a partnership with 18 universities and colleges.

Further implement our retention strategies and develop our 

Implemented three new leadership training programs to supplement existing programs.

employees’ capabilities.

Conducted 2007 Global Employee Survey of total employee population.

Maintain our focus on structured leadership development programs 

for our supervisors, managers and senior leaders.

Established new Centers of Expertise — Incident Investigation and Learning, and  

Sustain commitment to reduce all incidents to zero.

Motor Vehicle Safety.

Continue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy and collaborating 

Continued training on HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, management and treatment,  

with stakeholders on health initiatives for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis 

for a total of more than 17,000 employees trained over three years.

and malaria.

Added a new country program to the Arrive Alive road safety initiative.

Continue to address road safety.

Hosted fifth annual OE Forum for employees worldwide to share best practices.

Host sixth annual OE Forum.

Initiated a cardiovascular health program among employees in three countries.

Expand implementation of cardiovascular program companywide 

Launched a corporate standard process to confirm all employees are fit for duty.

over the next three years.

Deploy corporate standard Occupational Hygiene process.

Directed approximately 68 percent of total investments in CE initiatives to capacity 

Increase support and resources devoted to capacity building  

building and economic development programs.

Implemented SIA training and distributed CE tools.

Continued to implement development plans with RDCs in Niger Delta. 

Became first Corporate Champion of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis  

and Malaria, contributing $30 million over three years. 

Marked fifth anniversary of Angola Partnership Initiative with evaluation of projects  

to be improved and replicated.

Supported public education in 23 U.S. Gulf Coast school districts in second of three-

year, $18 million Energy for Learning initiative.

Provided scholarships for Saudi students selected by their government to pursue 

bachelor’s degrees at universities in the United States and elsewhere.

and economic development. 

Continue working with RDCs in the Niger Delta to execute 

development plans.

Move forward on second phase of Angola Partnership Initiative  

with funds committed through 2012.

Leverage partnerships and invest $30 million over three years  

to assist Global Fund.

Performed better than our 2007 goals in GHG emissions and energy efficiency.

Continue operational activities to reduce GHG emissions and increase 

Invested in academic and government research programs to explore climate change 

energy efficiency.

policies and technologies, including biofuels and carbon sequestration. 

Continue to pursue strategic research alliances on renewable energy 

Pursued opportunities to reduce flaring and venting in our global operations.

Began operation of Darajat Unit III geothermal project in Indonesia.

Continued to work with California officials and business community to shape sound 

implementation of 2006 law mandating GHG emissions reductions.

Engaged Det Norske Veritas to verify GHG emissions of operated assets.

technologies, including development of cellulosic ethanol.

Extend engagement with state, federal and international officials on 

policies and regulations related to GHG emissions reduction mandates.

Deployed corporate Third-Party Waste Stewardship process and established  

Deploy global audit program and continue training to implement 

a community of practice.

corporate Third-Party Waste Stewardship process. 

Adopted updated Corporate Biodiversity Statement, and provided guidance on 

Continue to implement ESHIA process and include biodiversity 

incorporating biodiversity assessments into corporate Risk Management, Property 

assessments in new projects.

Updated self-assessment tools used to compare our operations against ISO standards, 

evaluate performance.

Adopted new environmental performance standards to minimize impacts from 

and integrate OEMS environmental performance objectives and 

Continue collection and analysis of environmental data to  

Continue OEMS alignment with leading industry standards  

guidance into operations.

Transfer and ESHIA processes.

including 14001.

offshore production.

Conducted product stewardship reviews in six countries.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

Increase community investment in capacity building and economic 
development programs.
Continue developing our community engagement tool kit.
With rollout of companywide ESHIA, continue developing tools  
for social impact assessments (SIAs) and deliver training.
Expand community engagement (CE) practitioners’ network.
Continue working with Regional Development Councils (RDCs)  
in the Niger Delta to create three-year development plans.

• 

Continue rollout of Chevron’s Human Rights Statement, including 
employee training, over the next three years.

Approved incorporating the Human Rights Statement into the BC&E Code in 2008  

Deploy updated BC&E Code and continue training on Human  

and continued employee training on the statement.

Rights Statement.

• 
• 

• 
• 

Continue implementing Action Plan on Climate Change.
Continue to partner in developing technologies, such as biofuels  
and market-based mechanisms, to reduce GHG emissions.
Begin operation of Darajat Unit III geothermal project in Indonesia.
Continue to work with California state officials and business 
community to understand technological possibilities for success and 
consider economic trade-offs needed to meet greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions law mandates.

• 
• 

• 

Implement corporate ESHIA and third-party waste standard.
Continue companywide OEMS alignment with ISO 14001 and  
OHSAS 18001 standards.
Continue to compile and analyze environmental data, including water 
and waste data, across our operations to evaluate performance.

Page

Priority Area

  What We Said We Would Do in 2007

  What We Did in 2007

  What We Plan to Do Next

• 

• 
• 

Advanced OEMS implementation across the company with ongoing training and 
certification, and strengthened OEMS compliance assurance capability.
Deployed ESHIA as a corporate standard for new projects.
Advanced commitment to good corporate governance by implementing a majority-
vote standard for election of directors in uncontested elections and by providing  
for a director resignation provision.

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Strengthened stakeholder engagement through ESHIA training.
Integrated CR and Annual Report planning and production process.
Posted corporate political contributions on 
Sought input from stakeholders to improve CR reporting. 
Engaged Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance for verification of data reporting process.
Launched global campaigns to engage the public on energy issues, including 
advertising and Energyville online game. 

www.chevron.com.

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

Provided new employment for more than 7,000 people across the globe.
Expanded communication in recruiting efforts by emphasizing our values and culture.
Added new programs to help attract the best talent from around the world, including  
a partnership with 18 universities and colleges.
Implemented three new leadership training programs to supplement existing programs.
Conducted 2007 Global Employee Survey of total employee population.

• 
• 
• 

• 

Continue with OEMS implementation across the company.
Deploy corporate standard Compliance Assurance process.
Sustain rollout of ESHIA for new projects, including stakeholder  
and community engagement components.
Roll out updated Business Conduct & Ethics (BC&E) Code  
to our employees.

• 

• 

• 

Undertake stakeholder engagement activities to progress  
CR approach and reporting.
Engage Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance for ongoing third-party 
verification.
Continue to engage the public in discussion on energy issues.

• 
• 

• 

• 

Continue to provide new employment across our operations.
Continue to implement global partnership programs to attract  
and hire talented people.
Further implement our retention strategies and develop our 
employees’ capabilities.
Maintain our focus on structured leadership development programs 
for our supervisors, managers and senior leaders.

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

Established new Centers of Expertise — Incident Investigation and Learning, and  
Motor Vehicle Safety.
Continued training on HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, management and treatment,  
for a total of more than 17,000 employees trained over three years.
Added a new country program to the Arrive Alive road safety initiative.
Hosted fifth annual OE Forum for employees worldwide to share best practices.
Initiated a cardiovascular health program among employees in three countries.
Launched a corporate standard process to confirm all employees are fit for duty.

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

Directed approximately 68 percent of total investments in CE initiatives to capacity 
building and economic development programs.
Implemented SIA training and distributed CE tools.
Continued to implement development plans with RDCs in Niger Delta. 
Became first Corporate Champion of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis  
and Malaria, contributing $30 million over three years. 
Marked fifth anniversary of Angola Partnership Initiative with evaluation of projects  
to be improved and replicated.
Supported public education in 23 U.S. Gulf Coast school districts in second of three-
year, $18 million Energy for Learning initiative.
Provided scholarships for Saudi students selected by their government to pursue 
bachelor’s degrees at universities in the United States and elsewhere.

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Sustain commitment to reduce all incidents to zero.
Continue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy and collaborating 
with stakeholders on health initiatives for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis 
and malaria.
Continue to address road safety.
Host sixth annual OE Forum.
Expand implementation of cardiovascular program companywide 
over the next three years.
Deploy corporate standard Occupational Hygiene process.

Increase support and resources devoted to capacity building  
and economic development. 
Continue working with RDCs in the Niger Delta to execute 
development plans.
Move forward on second phase of Angola Partnership Initiative  
with funds committed through 2012.
Leverage partnerships and invest $30 million over three years  
to assist Global Fund.

Continue rollout of Chevron’s Human Rights Statement, including 

employee training, over the next three years.

• 

Approved incorporating the Human Rights Statement into the BC&E Code in 2008  
and continued employee training on the statement.

• 

Deploy updated BC&E Code and continue training on Human  
Rights Statement.

6 Continuous Integration of 

Corporate Responsibility 

Into Our Business

Continue with Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 

implementation across the company.

Begin rollout of Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 

(ESHIA) process across our global operations.

Continue using OEMS self-assessment process.

8 Stakeholder  

Engagement

16 Global Strategic  

Workforce Development

18 Health and Safety  

(including HIV/AIDS)

22 Community  

Engagement

Use ESHIA process to further strengthen stakeholder engagement.

Conduct stakeholder engagement training and make tools available 

to business units.

reporting processes.

Continue aligning our corporate responsibility (CR) and annual 

Continue posting corporate political contributions made during  

the previous year on www.chevron.com.

Continue engaging with stakeholders to improve our CR reporting.

Increase communication on our record of responsible corporate 

actions and policies, together with our business strategies,  

in recruiting efforts.

Deploy leadership development programs.

Conduct a Global Employee Survey with targeted questions  

on what makes employees stay with the company.

Continue safety focus, aiming toward long-term goal of  

zero incidents.

Continue companywide deployment of corporate standard  

process for managing risk.

Continue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy.

Collaborate with other companies to implement health initiatives.

Continue implementing the Arrive Alive road safety initiative.

Host fifth annual Operational Excellence (OE) Forum.

Increase community investment in capacity building and economic 

development programs.

Continue developing our community engagement tool kit.

With rollout of companywide ESHIA, continue developing tools  

for social impact assessments (SIAs) and deliver training.

Expand community engagement (CE) practitioners’ network.

Continue working with Regional Development Councils (RDCs)  

in the Niger Delta to create three-year development plans.

25 Human Rights

30 Climate Change,  

Renewables and  

Energy Efficiency

36 Environmental  

Management

Continue implementing Action Plan on Climate Change.

Continue to partner in developing technologies, such as biofuels  

and market-based mechanisms, to reduce GHG emissions.

Begin operation of Darajat Unit III geothermal project in Indonesia.

Continue to work with California state officials and business 

community to understand technological possibilities for success and 

consider economic trade-offs needed to meet greenhouse gas (GHG) 

emissions law mandates.

Implement corporate ESHIA and third-party waste standard.

Continue companywide OEMS alignment with ISO 14001 and  

OHSAS 18001 standards.

Continue to compile and analyze environmental data, including water 

and waste data, across our operations to evaluate performance.

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Performed better than our 2007 goals in GHG emissions and energy efficiency.
Invested in academic and government research programs to explore climate change 
policies and technologies, including biofuels and carbon sequestration. 
Pursued opportunities to reduce flaring and venting in our global operations.
Began operation of Darajat Unit III geothermal project in Indonesia.
Continued to work with California officials and business community to shape sound 
implementation of 2006 law mandating GHG emissions reductions.
Engaged Det Norske Veritas to verify GHG emissions of operated assets.

Deployed corporate Third-Party Waste Stewardship process and established  
a community of practice.
Adopted updated Corporate Biodiversity Statement, and provided guidance on 
incorporating biodiversity assessments into corporate Risk Management, Property 
Transfer and ESHIA processes.
Updated self-assessment tools used to compare our operations against ISO standards, 
including 14001.
Adopted new environmental performance standards to minimize impacts from 
offshore production.
Conducted product stewardship reviews in six countries.

• 

• 

• 

Continue operational activities to reduce GHG emissions and increase 
energy efficiency.
Continue to pursue strategic research alliances on renewable energy 
technologies, including development of cellulosic ethanol.
Extend engagement with state, federal and international officials on 
policies and regulations related to GHG emissions reduction mandates.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Deploy global audit program and continue training to implement 
corporate Third-Party Waste Stewardship process. 
Continue to implement ESHIA process and include biodiversity 
assessments in new projects.
Continue collection and analysis of environmental data to  
evaluate performance.
Continue OEMS alignment with leading industry standards  
and integrate OEMS environmental performance objectives and 
guidance into operations.

13

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

How do you help  
communities develop  
their most important  
resource?

We believe investing in basic human needs, education and training, 
and local business development is vitally important to strengthening 
communities and promoting greater economic and social stability. 
Since 2003, our alliance with the Discovery Channel Global Education 
Partnership has established learning centers for students in 50 under-
resourced schools in Angola, Nigeria, South Africa and Venezuela,  
including this one in Mapalagadi, South Africa.

A third grader from Mapalagadi Primary School in Sekhukhune, Limpopo Province, South Africa, enjoys a 
teaching video, The Science of Plants, as part of a natural science lesson supported by Chevron’s alliance 
with the Discovery Channel Global Education Partnership. Teachers at the school are trained in new 
methodologies to improve students’ math, science, language, health and life skills.

14

Socioeconomic

The following pages describe our socioeconomic performance in workforce 
development, health and safety, supply chain management, community 
engagement, and human rights. We also examine our corporate responsibility 
efforts in the Asia-Pacific region, one of the fastest-growing areas of the 
world, where approximately a quarter of our global oil production takes place. 
Wherever we operate, we believe our investments in people and partnerships 
with communities are fundamental to both our business success and to 
meeting the world’s growing demand for energy.

15

Global Strategic Workforce Development

Today’s complex global environment 
requires a world-class workforce that 
reflects the cultures and businesses of 
countries where we do business. Chevron 
currently has 40 major capital projects 
in which Chevron’s share is more than 
$1  billion, requiring additional skilled people 
across our operations.

Higher energy prices and growth in energy 
demand have increased investment in our 
industry, driving greater competition for 
talented people. In 2007, more than 7,000 
new employees were hired. Since 1999, our 
workforce has grown more than 76 percent 
to approximately 59,000. Also, our work-
force is shifting geographically. In 2007, 
more than half of our new employees were 
hired and located outside the United States, 
up from about 30 percent in 1999.

•  Develop leaders who deliver superior 
results in a diverse, culturally complex 
global energy company.

Creating a World-Class  
Global Workforce
In 2007, Chevron added new processes and  
programs to help continue to attract the best  
talent from around the world. For example, 
an improved applicant tracking system and 
sourcing process increased our ability to 
attract and hire candidates in key techni-
cal areas. We strengthened our image as 
an employer through expanded advertising 
and Web and print strategies. Our capacity 
to support internal and external hiring has 
increased. A centralized Global Upstream 
recruitment group strengthened our ability 
to attract new and experienced employees 
for all our upstream operations.

During 2007, we continued to develop our 
workforce capabilities through our Invest 
in People strategies. These strategies are 
designed to:

•  Create a world-class, high-performing 

global workforce.

•  Develop and manage our employees to 

help us create the organizational capabil-
ity to execute our strategies.

Chevron’s University Partnership Program 
began establishing long-term, strategic  
relationships with 18 universities around  
the world that have a strong presence in  
the global energy industry. The partnerships 
strengthen the global reach of our recruit-
ment activities and support education and 
research, which include new and existing 
degree programs and research initiatives  
on emerging technologies.

Supporting diversity is one of seven values 
in The Chevron Way. Having a workforce 
that reflects the composition of the market-
places we serve and the communities where 
we operate is an important competitive 
advantage. Our leadership training pro-
grams explain the value diversity brings to 
our business success and provide guidance 
to help supervisors and managers learn  
to recognize and support the diversity 
of team members. As of 2007, we have 
approximately 13,200 employees involved 
in 10 officially recognized employee net-
works centered on issues such as gender, 
race, sexual orientation, age, disability and 
national origin.

We use a variety of metrics to help us  
understand our progress on our diversity 
goals. In 2007, for instance, 24.5 percent  
of senior executives were women and non-
 Caucasian men, surpassing our five-year 
goal of 23.5 percent set in 2002 — an accom-
plishment that reflects specific initiatives 
to achieve our objective. A selection of our 
metrics is reported in the charts below.

Developing and Managing  
Our Employees
We provide opportunities for skill develop-
ment and motivating assignments at each 

Global Diversity

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics

Women in total workforce 

21.5% 

22.4%

Minorities among total employees  

2006	

2007

Women represented at midlevel and above 

10.3% 

10.6%

Women and non-Caucasian men represented  
at senior executive level 

21.4% 

24.5%

Global Workforce at Year-End 2007
Geographic breakdown

Women among total employees  
Minorities among executives and senior managers1  
Minorities among first- and midlevel managers1  
Women among executives and senior managers1  
Women among first- and midlevel managers1  
Minorities among professionals  

Women among professionals  

2006	

2007

32.2%	

28.3%	

N/A	

N/A	

N/A	

N/A	

26.1%	

30.7%	

33.9%

29.0%

9.6%

26.5%

14.1%

25.6%

29.1%

32.0%

   North America 47.4% 

   Asia-Pacific 26.2%

   Africa 14.0%

   Europe/Middle East 8.0%

   South America 4.4%

At year-end 2007, Chevron’s worldwide staffing was 59,162, excluding service station 
employees. This represents an increase of 5.9 percent over the previous year. 
Approximately 15.8 percent of Chevron’s U.S. workforce is represented by unions.

16

 1  The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission established this category in 2007.  

The data are not comparable with previous years.

Employee Surveys

I believe strongly in the goals and  
objectives of Chevron 

I am proud to be a part of Chevron  

Chevron is a company that cares about  
the health and well-being of employees  

I find it difficult to effectively manage  
both my work demands and my personal  
or family needs 

2004	

2005	

2006	

2007

87%	

87%	

91%	

89%	

93%	

92%	

92%

92%

80%	

83%	

87%	

90%

33%	

35%	

32%	

35%

 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
stage of our employees’ careers. Among our 
2007 achievements:

•  Horizons, an accelerated development 
program to build the technical compe-
tency of employees who have fewer than 
six years of industry experience, was 
expanded to support employees at all of 
our global upstream operations. Programs 
are offered in disciplines such as earth 
science, petroleum engineering, facilities 
engineering, and drilling and comple-
tions engineering. In addition, Chevron’s 
information technology, supply chain man-
agement, and health, environmental and 
safety operations have implemented the 
program. Approximately 800 international 
and 1,000 U.S. employees were active in 
the program in 2007.

•  The Engineering Development Program 

identifies and develops engineering 
graduates who have technical project 
management skills. During the two-year 
program, recruits rotate through a variety 
of downstream assignments to develop 
the skills to support strategic business 
opportunities.

Developing Our Leaders
Our leaders must have the capabilities  
to excel in a complex, global business 

environment. In 2007, three new programs 
that build employee supervisory and man-
agement skills were introduced through 
our seven-stage leadership development 
program. This program identifies and devel-
ops our leaders around the world to operate 
at a consistently high level of performance 
and employee engagement. More than 5,165 
employees took part in more than 230 lead-
ership development sessions.

Engaging Employees in  
Continuous Improvement
In March 2007, we surveyed our global 
employee population on employee engage-
ment, retention and performance. We 
received responses from 68 percent of our 
workforce. The results indicated we were on 
par with or improving in key areas since our 
last census in 2004. Chevron employees are 
more highly engaged with the company and 
more likely to stay than in the past. Com-
pared with 2004, however, they say they are 
having more difficulty managing workload 
and balancing work and personal needs.

We ranked favorably among our major 
competitors in indices measuring employee 
engagement, retention and performance 
according to an independent industry-
benchmarking firm.

Above: Rukshana Begum is an operations 
specialist in Bangladesh. She works at 
Chevron’s Jalalabad natural gas field. 

Venezuela’s Simón Bolívar University 
participates in Chevron’s University 
Partnership Program. Chevron helps fund 
research and supports 30 students who 
are pursuing petroleum technology studies, 
such as program participants (from left) 
Gabriela Jimenez, Luis Hernandez and 
Zary Faría Vara.

17

Health and Safety

We place the highest priority on the 
safety and health of our workforce and 
the people in the communities where we 
operate, on the environment, and on the 
reliability and efficiency of our operations. 
Our Operational Excellence Management 
System focuses on leadership accountabil-
ity, on a management system process that 
is integrated into our business planning, 
and on expectations of operational excel-
lence to achieve world-class health and 
safety performance.

In 2007, Chevron again conducted a review 
of serious incidents to learn from these 
events and improve the safety of our opera-
tions. Two new corporate standards were 
adopted to further reduce injuries and illness  
among our workforce — Fitness for Duty and  
Occupational Hygiene — and a  cardiovascular  
health program was initiated. We created a 
Motor Vehicle Safety Center of Excellence to 
improve driving safety within the company. 
We also expanded our efforts to provide 
health and safety benefits to the communi-
ties where we operate through efforts to 
combat HIV/AIDS and malaria and, in some 
locations, supported community clinics.

Safety Performance
We remain committed to reducing all 
incidents to zero. The Total Recordable 
Incident Rate of our workforce decreased 
by 17 percent compared with 2006, and the 
Days Away From Work Rate decreased by 
22 percent during the same period. The fre-
quency of lost-time incidents has declined 
significantly over the past five years by 
more than 71 percent. Despite these overall 
improvements, we experienced 17 fatalities 
that resulted from nine incidents in 2007.

Two Chevron refineries experienced fires  
in 2007: Richmond, California, in January 

and Pascagoula, Mississippi, in August. 
In both instances, emergency response 
personnel at the facility contained the fire 
quickly. One Chevron employee sustained 
minor injuries in the Richmond incident 
and returned to work the same day. No one 
was hurt responding to the Pascagoula fire. 
All monitoring data and air samples taken 
during these incidents show no evidence of 
adverse air quality.

Every Chevron facility strives for  outstanding 
safety performance. Our Zero Is Attainable 
awards are granted quarterly to locations 
that complete 1 million hours or 1,000 days 
worked with no workforce Days Away From 
Work incidents and no fatalities. In 2007, 89 
work groups worldwide received this award.

Improving Safety Management Processes
Chevron increased its focus on facility safety 
during 2007. We invested in new systems, 
monitoring and staffing to protect our work-
force. These measures included:

•  Creating a new Center of Excellence for 
Incident Investigation and Learning to 
provide expert analysis of the root causes 
of accidents, share findings companywide 
and solve problems collaboratively.

•  Implementing new guidelines developed by 
the American Petroleum Institute to safely 
site portable buildings in our refineries and 
petrochemical facilities.

•  Developing a new process safety metric —  

Loss of Containment — designed to 
improve how we manage the process 
safety of our facilities; we plan to collect 
data on this metric beginning in 2008.

accidental releases. It moves beyond safety 
to improvements in areas such as health, 
environmental performance, product quality, 
reliability and business efficiency. It also 
provides comprehensive tools for self-
 assessment and incident investigations.

Reducing Employee Injuries and Illness
Programs to support a safe, healthy and 
reliable workplace are an important part of 
our efforts to reduce all incidents to zero. 
In 2007, the programs we established or 
offered training in included:

•  Safe Work Practices — Our Global  

Down stream and Upstream organiza-
tions developed standardized processes 
to address training, high-risk work and 
 lessons learned from major incidents. 
Global Downstream began implementing 
its process in 2007, and Global Upstream 
will begin implementation in 2008.

•  Fitness for Duty — Chevron established 
a standardized process to determine 
whether employees are safely able to 
perform the requirements of their job. 
The Fitness for Duty process requires that 
we identify health-sensitive or physically 
demanding job functions and develop 
appropriate evaluations.

•  Occupational Hygiene — The corporate 

Occupational Hygiene process was 
adopted to further enable us to protect 
workers’ health by identifying, quantifying 
and controlling occupational exposures to 
environmental agents that may affect the 
health of the workforce. Chevron estab-
lished a corporate exposure standard for 
hydrogen sulfide in the workplace.

In 2007, our Global Downstream  organization 
initiated a loss-prevention system to prevent 
or reduce unplanned events, which may 
include anything from workplace falls to 

•  Reliability — Chevron offered 24 courses 
and held more than 225 classes through 
our Reliability University, training more 
than 3,000 individuals in the behaviors 

The Ikhwezi Community Centre provides 
skills and services to support the daily 
needs of HIV/AIDS-affected families in the 
community of Paarl outside Cape Town, 
South Africa. Chevron and its employees 
have supported Ikhwezi’s programs, which 
include craft training to help women 
earn income.

18

Total Recordable Incident Rate1
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Work-Related Fatalities

2002	 2003	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007

2002	 2003	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007

Workforce	
Benchmark	

0.72	
0.87	

0.59	
0.80	

0.51	
0.69	

0.41	
0.65	

0.42	
0.59	

0.35
N/A

Employees 
Benchmark 

Contractors 
Benchmark 

0.68	
0.90	

0.74	
0.84	

0.60	
0.84	

0.59	
0.76	

0.46	
0.66	

0.53	
0.73	

0.38	
0.61	

0.42	
0.67	

0.34	
0.51	

0.46	
0.64	

0.40
N/A

0.34
N/A

Workforce	

16	

12	

17	

Employees 
Contractors 

1	
15	

0	
12	

2	
15	

6	

2	
4	

12	

1	
11	

17

3
14

Days Away From Work Rate1
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Lost-Time Incident Frequency1
Incidents per million work hours

2002	 2003	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007

2002	 2003	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007

Workforce	
Benchmark	

0.25	
0.22	

0.20	
0.19	

0.18	
0.19	

0.12	
0.15	

0.09	
0.14	

0.07
N/A

Workforce	
Benchmark	

1.29	
1.13	

1.06	
0.99	

0.94	
0.97	

0.60	
0.78	

0.50	
0.72	

0.37
N/A

Employees	
Benchmark	

Contractors 
Benchmark 

0.25	
0.23	

0.25	
0.21	

0.25	
0.22	

0.18	
0.17	

0.21	
0.19	

0.16	
0.19	

0.16	
0.15	

0.10	
0.15	

0.08	
0.13	

0.10	
0.15	

0.09
N/A

0.06
N/A

Employees 
Benchmark 

Contractors 
Benchmark 

1.26	
1.20	

1.30	
1.10	

1.26	
1.08	

0.95	
0.90	

1.07	
0.95	

0.87	
0.95	

0.84	
0.77	

0.49	
0.79	

0.41	
0.64	

0.53	
0.78	

0.48
N/A

0.33
N/A

1 American Petroleum Institute data are used as industry benchmarks. 2007 benchmark data were not available at time of publication.

19

	
	
	
	
and tools needed to improve the reliability 
of our operations and capital projects.

supervisors and 11,200 employees have 
received training customized for their par-
ticular geographic area.

and treatment supplies directly to remote 
 communities in the Niger Delta.

Employees’ Cardiovascular Health
Helping employees improve their health is 
another way in which Chevron strives for a 
safe, productive work environment. We have 
developed a program to address major risk 
factors for cardiovascular disease among 
our employees. Designed with the assist-
ance of public health experts, the program 
provides cardiovascular risk assessment 
tools that employees can use voluntarily 
and confidentially. For individuals at medium 
or high risk, a health mentor is available 
to support behavioral changes associated 
with better health. We are translating the 
assessment and educational tools into 
multiple languages. In 2007, we made these 
tools available to pilot sites in Nigeria, the 
Philippines and parts of the United States.

Facing the Challenges of HIV/AIDS
Chevron is in its third year of  implementing 
a global policy to help fight the spread of 
HIV/AIDS and to address its effects among 
our workforce and communities where we 
operate. The policy focuses on delivering 
customized education, awareness building, 
prevention and treatment programs across 
the organization and on reducing the  
stigma associated with HIV/AIDS. Forty 
HIV/AIDS policy coordinators drive imple-
mentation globally. Our goal is to have all 
Chevron employees understand how to 
prevent HIV/AIDS and, wherever possible,  
to provide access to voluntary testing  
and treatment resources.

During 2007, we continued to provide 
training on HIV/AIDS prevention,  testing, 
management and treatment. Since the 
introduction of our HIV/AIDS program, 
approximately 6,370 managers and 

Chevron in 2007 became the first Corporate 
Champion of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria. Over the next 
three years, we will contribute $30 million 
to support the Global Fund’s work to combat 
these diseases around the world. Leveraging 
our experience working with local com-
munities, we will focus our approach on 
collaboration and partnership, a model 
shared by the Global Fund.

Anti-Malaria Program Helping  
African Communities
Chevron’s anti-malaria efforts are focused 
primarily in Angola and Nigeria, countries 
where we operate and where the mosquito-
borne infection is prevalent. In Angola, 
we promote awareness of how malaria is 
transmitted, assist with training community-
based health workers and provide clinical 
supplies. Chevron also provides insecticide-
treated mosquito nets to employees and 
their families. In 2007, we expanded this 
effort by distributing 14,000 nets to com-
munities near our Angola operations. These 
combined efforts have contributed to a  
40 percent decrease in annual malaria cases 
among our employees and their families. 
In Nigeria, the River Boat Clinic, launched 
in 2000, delivers prevention, diagnostic 

Arrive Alive
Chevron established the Arrive Alive 
program to help eliminate traffic-related 
fatalities and injuries in the communi-
ties where we operate. Working with 
government agencies, nongovernmental 
organizations, trade associations and other 
private-sector companies, Chevron has 
formed or joined collaborative nonprofit 
entities in Guatemala, Nigeria, South Africa 
and Uganda to help develop and implement 
road safety action plans. In 2007, a program 
was established in El Salvador. These efforts 
seek to create solutions through advocacy, 
enforcement, education and communication, 
addressing the root causes of road traffic 
incidents in several communities that host 
our operations.

Our longest-running Arrive Alive partner-
ship is in Guatemala. In the first full year of 
implementation, the number of traffic acci-
dents at nine “hot spots” declined from an 
average of more than 40 per month to one 
or two per month after corrective measures 
were instituted, a 95 percent reduction.  
At one hot spot near a school, the accident 
rate fell to zero after local officials installed 
new road signs, stepped up traffic enforce-
ment efforts and trained school students on 
safe road-crossing practices.

Motor Vehicle Safety
Company motor vehicle incidents 
per million miles driven

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:47)(cid:41)

(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:47)(cid:41)

2006 and 2007 data are based on a revised classification system adopted by the International 
Association of Oil & Gas Producers. Chevron has tracked motor vehicle incidents since 2002.

Along with programs promoting safe driving 
for its employees and contractors, Chevron 
often works with local partners on programs 
to eliminate traffic-related fatalities and 
injuries in communities near its operations.

20

Supply Chain Management

Our efforts to build local supplier capacity 
and use local content are among the impor-
tant contributions Chevron makes in the 
countries where we operate. Investing in our 
suppliers and contractors helps foster local 
economic development and helps meet our 
business needs around the world. In 2007, 
we purchased approximately $35 billion 
in goods and services from suppliers and 
contractors ranging from large multinational 
corporations to locally based businesses.

Building a Diverse U.S. Supplier Network
A diverse supplier network promotes an  
inclusive business environment. By support-
ing small, local, minority- and women-  
owned businesses, we develop new and 
cost-effective solutions that fuel our mutual 
growth. In 2007, we spent $2.9 billion on 
goods and services provided by small 
businesses in the United States, an overall 
increase that is slightly below our goal of 
28 percent of total U.S. expenditures. We 
spent $464 million with women-owned 
businesses and $434 million with minority-
owned businesses.

To continue building our network, we intro-
duced a supplier diversity  training program 
for Chevron’s supply chain/ procurement 
personnel in the last quarter of 2007. This 
program will help us identify new opportuni-
ties for small and diverse suppliers to work 
with us.

U.S. Small Business and  
Supplier Diversity Spending (US$ millions)

In many U.S. locations where we operate,  
we provide potential suppliers with seminars 
and training programs as well as assistance 
in obtaining the appropriate small busi-
ness, women-owned or minority-supplier 
certifications. In addition, we work with our 
larger suppliers to help them develop their 
diversity programs for subcontractors.

In 2007, we held mentoring and supplier 
training forums in Angola, Kazakhstan, 
Kuwait and Thailand. These forums enable 
local suppliers to understand our business 
needs and our health, environmental and 
safety requirements. This makes them more 
successful in tendering for our business and 
providing the goods and services we need.

Chevron works directly with its  suppliers to 
develop their business practices. Our rela-
tionship with MetroplexCore — a Houston-
based, minority-owned, environmental 
and industrial services company — demon-
strates how collaboration can achieve our 
 business needs and build the capacity of 
our partners.

In 2007, Chevron Environmental 
Management Co. helped MetroplexCore 
align its health, environment and safety 
practices with Chevron’s, provided safety 
training to MetroplexCore employees,  
and established a mentoring program  
on operational excellence.

Building a Strong Local Supplier  
Network Worldwide
Outside the United States, Chevron’s 
 investments in local businesses contribute 
to the overall development and prosperity 
of the communities where we work, expand 
our supplier network, and demonstrate our 
commitment to diversity.

In Thailand, Chevron funded safety training 
workshops for CUEL Ltd., a partner firm. 
CUEL, one-third owned by Chevron, was 
created in 2000 to perform engineering, 
construction and installation services for 
Unocal Thailand, which was acquired by 
Chevron in 2005. Since 2000, CUEL has 
grown into Thailand’s largest full-service oil 
and gas contractor, with 2,200 employees, 
of whom 95 percent are Thai nationals. 
Through 2007, CUEL employees worked 
more than 13 million hours in its fabrication 
yard without a lost-time incident.

Building Capacity Through Local Content
Our partnership in Kazakhstan with ESS 
Support Services is an example of how we 
build local capacity. Chevron has a supplier 
agreement with ESS to provide catering  
and facilities management services to 
Tengizchevroil, in which Chevron owns a  
50 percent interest. In 2007, after a competi-
tive process, we renewed our contract with  
ESS, in part because of ESS’s demonstrated 
commitment to developing local capacity. 
Between 2005 and 2007, ESS in creased 
local supplier content from 48 per cent to 
78 percent. More than 97 percent of its 
3,400 employees are Kazakh citizens. In 
2007, working with Tengizchevroil, ESS 
provided training to local suppliers on such 
issues as food risk and health assessment to 
help them meet ESS’s and Tengizchevroil’s 
standards for health, safety, reliability 
and quality.

Small business 

Women-owned 

Minority-owned 

2002	

2003	

2004	

2005	

2006	

2007

1,364	

1,310	

1,360	

1,800	

2,800	

2,886

212	

209	

223	

202	

222	

226	

258	

310	

373	

432	

464

434

MetroplexCore, a minority-owned company based in Houston, Texas, 
provides environmental site assessment, project management and 
tank cleaning services to Chevron Environmental Management Co. 
MetroplexCore CEO Willard Jackson, Jr. (center) reviews project 
plans with senior engineer Robert Decker and engineer associate 
Elizabeth Frazier.

21

 
  
Community Engagement

Chevron’s community engagement 
 initiatives strive to contribute to economic 
growth and the well-being of the communi-
ties where we operate. Over the past several 
years, our programs have focused on build-
ing human and institutional capacity. In 
2007, we invested approximately $119 million 
in community engagement initiatives in 
the United States and around the world, an 
increase of nearly $30 million over 2006. 
The increase was due largely to our Energy 
for Learning education initiative and our 
alliance with the Discovery Channel Global 
Education Partnership, both described 
below, and other programs. Overall, approxi-
mately 68 percent was targeted toward 
basic human needs, education and training, 
and support for local small and medium- 
size businesses.

Partnerships are at the heart of our com-
munity engagement initiatives. We believe 
they are essential to creating sustainable 
programs that build local capabilities. We 
collaborate with our strategic partners 
to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate 
our community engagement projects. Our 
partners include local and national govern-
ments, communities, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs), development and 
donor agencies, and multilateral institutions. 
Through our partnerships, we leverage our 
own and our partners’ expertise, skills, tech-
nical knowledge and financial resources.

Enhancing Our Capabilities
At Chevron, we continuously look for  
ways to enhance our internal capabilities 
to constructively engage the communities 
where we operate and build sustainable 
partnerships. In 2007, more than 100 
Chevron employees from more than 15 
countries took part in social impact assess-
ment and stakeholder engagement training 
sessions in Angola, Canada, Indonesia, 
Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Thailand, the United 
States and Venezuela. These training 
 sessions were part of the three-year rollout 
of our Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment process for new capital 
projects, described on page 8.

We also introduced a new community 
engagement tool kit, which provides our 
staff with guidance in designing, implement-
ing and assessing community engagement 
programs for all stages of a project’s 
life cycle.

Developing Partners’ Capabilities
Chevron’s community engagement 
 initiatives rest on a long-term commit-
ment to collaboration and partnership.  
Our three-year, $30 million commitment to 
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis  
and Malaria, described on page 20, is  
one example. The Chevron Management  
Institute (CMI) is another. CMI provides  
four days of intensive leadership and  

management training to NGO representa-
tives we work with around the world. Since 
1995, CMI has trained approximately 320 
NGO leaders.

In 2007, CMI sponsored two training 
 sessions for our NGO partners. A CMI 
session in Houston brought together 20 
NGO leaders from organizations in Angola, 
Nigeria and the United States. At a regional 
CMI session held in Caracas, Venezuela, our 
Latin American business unit welcomed 
26 NGO leaders from Argentina, Chile, 
Colombia, El Salvador and Venezuela. The 
Research Foundation, a Latin American 
development organization, facilitated the 
training with faculty from INCAE, a nonprofit 
organization located in Costa Rica sup-
ported by the Harvard Business School.

Building Sustainable Communities
Chevron works in a range of operating 
environments around the world. Our com-
munity engagement initiatives are designed 
to address the needs of the communities 
and reflect our commitment to partner-
ships, sustainability and capacity building,  
as described in the programs below.

Angola Partnership Initiative:  
Five-Year Anniversary
The Angola Partnership Initiative marked its  
five-year anniversary in 2007. Launched in  
2002, the initiative’s goals were to promote 

Energy for Learning: Seventh-grade science 
teacher Alison Althaus examines diluted cabbage 
juice as part of an experiment to show how pH 
values change as people exhale carbon dioxide 
into the cups. She is a participant in Chevron’s 
Energy for Learning program in New Orleans, 
Louisiana. Energy for Learning is a three-year, 
$18 million initiative launched in 2006 that 
supports public education in school districts 
affected by hurricanes Katrina and Rita.

22

peace and stability and to improve health 
and educational infrastructure. It also 
sought to help build the capacity of 
Angolan nongovernmental organizations 
and government development agencies and 
to help reduce poverty through agribusi-
ness and the development of micro, small 
and medium-size enterprises. Chevron 
leveraged an initial $25 million investment 
with $31 million in matching funds and 
partnerships from national and multilateral 
development organizations.

As of 2007, the initiative’s most significant 
five-year accomplishments include:

In 2007, we undertook a review of the 
 initiative’s first five years to identify  
projects and processes to improve and 
replicate. More than 1,750 employees were 
surveyed and 158 internal and external 
stakeholders interviewed. Among the key 
findings, we learned that:

•  Capacity building of government institu-
tions and other local partners was vital 
for success.

•  Projects contributing to income generation 

and improved livelihoods were recog-
nized as having the greatest impact and 
sustainability.

•  Establishing a microfinance bank, 

•  Participatory approaches strengthened 

stakeholder engagement and local owner-
ship of projects.

Chevron is investing an additional $2.5 mil-
lion per year in second-phase program 
funds that extend through 2012. Based on 
the findings of our review, our second-phase 
strategic objectives are to continue building 
local organizational capacity and assist in 
reducing poverty by supporting the devel-
opment and diversification of small and 
medium-size enterprises.

NovoBanco, in August 2004. More than 
$27 million in loans have been made 
to more than 5,000 micro and small 
enterprises.

•  Helping provide food, seeds and tools  

to approximately 2 million people across 
six provinces.

•  Helping organize 3,053 small agricultural 
producers into 32 associations, which 
produced and commercialized high-
value crops.

•  Increasing student enrollment at Angola’s 
Faculty of Agrarian Science from 200 in 
2003 to more than 700 in 2007, improving 
the country’s technical capacity to revital-
ize agriculture.

Global Community  
Investments in 2007

  North America 48%

  Africa 26%

  Asia-Pacific 9%

   Eurasia 9%

   Latin America 6%

   Europe 1%

   Middle East 1%

  Total $119 million

Includes Chevron’s share in Chevron Phillips 
Chemical Co., the Tengizchevroil joint venture, and 
the Karachaganak Petroleum Operation Consortium.

Mobile Crèches in New Delhi, India, is a nonprofit 
organization that provides health care, nutrition 
and a safe environment during the day to 
under served children of itinerant workers at 
construction sites. Kusum Sharma (right), who 
works for Mobile Crèches, cares for children. 
Chevron contributes funds to the organization, 
and employees volunteer, helping care for 
the children and collecting donations of food, 
clothing and toys.

23

Progress on GMOUs  
in Nigeria’s Niger Delta
In 2006, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL) signed 
Global Memoranda of Understanding 
(GMOUs) with eight community groups and 
state governments in the Niger Delta. The 
GMOUs represent a new community engage-
ment model in a region facing complex 
development challenges. This model is  
characterized by a participatory partnership  
with communities, state governments and  
nongovernmental organizations on commu-
nity engagement initiatives. The GMOUs are  
intended to gradually shift control of CNL- 
funded community development programs  
from CNL to Regional Development Councils,  
which represent local communities.

In 2007, deployment of the GMOUs moved 
forward with communities and their lead-
ers beginning to embrace the model of 
 community- driven planning and responsibil-
ity for the success of projects. We recorded 
the following progress:

•  Three-year community development plans, 

which were created in 2006 following 
comprehensive sustainable-livelihood 
assessments, have been approved by proj-
ect review committees.

•  Individual projects have been prioritized 
and are now being scoped and funded by 
the individual councils. They include water 
and infrastructure projects, support for 
education, microcredit loans to support 
small business development, and voca-
tional training programs.

•  Council engagement with other govern-

ment development agencies is improving. 
Through this process, we will explore how 
to leverage other development initiatives 
to improve the benefits this new model will 
bring to the communities.

CNL recognizes that success in the Niger 
Delta is measured in small increments, and 
the region continues to face challenges. 
It continues to support efforts to improve 
communication between councils and the 
communities and is committed to working 
with all stakeholders to address complex 
development needs in a coordinated and 
participatory fashion.

Energy for Learning
Energy for Learning is a three-year,  
$18 million initiative launched in 2006 to 
support public education in school districts 
affected by hurricanes Katrina and Rita 
in the United States. In 2007, Energy for 
Learning invested more than $10 million in 
224 schools in 23 Mississippi and Louisiana  
school districts. As part of this effort,  
$2 million was invested in the construction 
of two child care facilities in Mississippi, 
undertaken in partnership with Save the 
Children, a nonprofit organization.

Funds from Energy for Learning also 
 supported academic resource needs, includ-
ing computers and science lab equipment. 
For example, Pearl River Central School in 
rural Mississippi received a $100,000 grant 
to create two reading labs. In 2007, students 
in 10 first-grade classes and approximately 
120 upper-elementary students who were 
testing below grade level on state proficiency 
tests took part in a daily reading-enrichment 
program. At the end of the 12-week program, 
reading skills for the first-grade students 
had increased by 10 percent, and 80 percent 
of the older students scored at proficiency 
or advanced levels on a subsequent test.

Discovery Channel Global  
Education Partnership
Since 2003, Chevron’s alliance with the 
Discovery Channel Global Education 

Partnership has helped establish  learning 
centers in 50 under-resourced schools 
in Angola, Nigeria, South Africa and 
Venezuela. This alliance has benefited 
approximately 67,000 students and  
1,850 teachers.

In 2007, Chevron partnered with The 
Coca-Cola Africa Foundation to expand 
the initiative to Lagos, Nigeria, where we 
are sharing program infrastructure costs 
and establishing four learning centers. 
Preparation of our four learning centers 
took place during the fourth quarter of 
2007. The centers were opened in February 
2008 and will provide resources for an addi-
tional 2,200 students and 60 teachers.

Learning centers are equipped with 
 culturally relevant educational program-
ming and technology to engage and inspire 
students. During a three-year partnership 
with a host school, teachers are trained to 
use the programming in the curriculum. 
The learning centers become hubs for 
community learning, providing information 
on topics ranging from HIV/AIDS to voca-
tional training.

Other Discovery Channel partnership 
achievements in 2007 included:

•  Implementing assessment tools by trainers 
at all centers to gauge the effectiveness of 
the program technology and resources.

•  Producing new programming on math-
ematics, geography and the science of 
plants, bringing the programming library 
to 142 segments.

•  Thirteen Chevron-sponsored learning cen-
ters completing their three-year training 
period and attaining full self-sufficiency.

In 12 Colombian cities, Chevron employees 
volunteered on weekends to help build more 
than 250 homes in partner ship with Un Techo 
para mi País, a nonprofit organization that works 
to reduce poverty. Chevron also donates funds 
to the organization.

24

Human Rights

Our Human Rights Statement, grounded 
in The Chevron Way, articulates our values 
and informs how we conduct our business. 
Guided by our values, we support universal 
human rights for our employees and in the 
communities where we operate.

Although governments bear primary 
responsibility for safeguarding human 
rights, we believe companies can play a 
positive role in contributing to their protec-
tion and promotion. Our Human Rights 
Statement, which we adopted in 2006, 
acknowledges our support for the U.N. 
Universal Declaration on Human Rights and 
the principles in the International Labour 
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work. The state-
ment reaffirms our support for the Global 
Sullivan Principles. These principles prohibit 
child labor, forced labor and discrimina-
tory behavior as well as recognize the right 
to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. We prefer business partners that 
treat their employees similarly.

In 2007, we continued to inform and educate 
our employees about our commitment to 
human rights. As of the end of 2007, more 
than 1,550 employees had completed the 
training, which will continue to be rolled out 
over the next two years. The training helps 
our employees understand human rights 
principles, key international instruments and 
voluntary initiatives, and how human rights 
can be supported through Chevron’s role 
in society.

In 2008, the full text of our Human Rights 
Statement will be incorporated into our 
Business Conduct & Ethics Code. Our 
updated code and required training will 
be communicated to all 59,000 Chevron 
employees when the code is released 
in 2008. The statement’s inclusion in 
the updated code will make it subject to 
the  corporation’s compliance processes, 
described on pages 6 and 7.

Chevron continues to engage and 
 participate in voluntary initiatives that 
 support human rights. In 2007, we were 
active in the development of participation 
criteria for the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights, which pro-
mote transparency and accountability  
for  participants. Chevron’s director of  
Global Security  presented Chevron’s  

Myanmar 

During 2007, we were frequently asked about our investment interest in Myanmar given the 
unrest that occurred in the country. Chevron supported and continues to support the calls 
for a peaceful resolution to issues facing the country in a manner that respects the human 
rights of the people of Myanmar. Our minority, nonoperated interest in the Yadana Project  
is a long-term commitment that will help meet the critical energy needs of  millions of  
people in the region. Our community development programs in Myanmar also help improve 
the lives of the people and communicate our values, including respect for human rights.

The Yadana Project partners have engaged CDA Collaborative Learning Projects — an 
independent U.S. organization that works on issues related to development aid and the 
management of projects in conflict and post-conflict environments — to visit the Yadana 
pipeline communities and report on its findings. In its visits to the Yadana pipeline region, 
CDA spoke with project staff as well as a range of people in the villages around the project 
and other civil society representatives in Myanmar’s former capital, Yangon. CDA noted 
that the Yadana Project’s initiatives have had a positive impact on local communities 
along the pipeline corridor. CDA also offered insights on the larger impacts of the Yadana 
Project’s presence and the opportunities available to the Yadana Project to address broader 
socioeconomic impacts of concern to local people.

Above: This view of Mount Poppa is near a remote village in central Myanmar. Through Pact,  
a U.S.-based nongovernmental organization, Chevron supports health care and education 
on tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS for this community and others outside the Yadana Project 
pipeline corridor that have limited access to public health programs.

efforts to implement the Voluntary 
Principles at the May 2007 plenary ses-
sion hosted by the U.S. State Department. 
Chevron also participated in in-country 
working groups and is part of a working 
group that is drafting reporting guidelines 
for the Voluntary Principles.

The Voluntary Principles have been distrib-
uted worldwide to our operating companies 
and business units, which are charged with 
implementing them according to local laws 
and conditions. Training on the Voluntary 
Principles is provided to Chevron’s global 
security advisors on an ongoing basis.

25

Case Study: Asia-Pacific

Indonesia  

Protecting Biodiversity in Indonesia

Chevron has been an economic and community partner in 
Indonesia since 1924. We produce nearly half of the country’s 
crude oil, market lubricants throughout the region, and  manage 
the Darajat and Salak geothermal projects on the island of Java. 
The Salak project, among the largest geothermal fields in the 
world, is situated in one of Indonesia’s largest national parks, 
Gunung Halimun Salak National Park.

In 2007, we continued our partnership with the Wildlife Trust,  
an  international organization of scientists dedicated to the  
conservation of biodiversity, and its local partner, the Center  
for Conservation and Insect Studies, to promote biodiversity  
in the forest corridor of the park.

The forest corridor supports the livelihood of local  villagers  
and serves as a crossing for wildlife and a water collection area. 
With Chevron funding, our partners and park authorities intro-
duced educational and economic opportunities to help reduce 
illegal and damaging encroachments on the corridor’s natural 
resources. Farmers, villagers and other local stakeholder groups 
were  consulted on these initiatives, which included:

•  Conducting impact and ecological assessments to develop  

a corridor plan that accommodates the diverse needs of the 
community and ecosystem.

•  Increasing youth education and providing training to public  

and private stakeholders on sustainable forest stewardship and 
conservation efforts.

Bangladesh  

Building Sustainable Communities in Bangladesh

Asia-Pacific is one of the fastest-growing 
regions in the world. Since the early part of the 
20th century, Chevron has provided energy to 
support that growth. Approximately 25 percent 
of our global crude oil production is from our 
Asia-Pacific facilities. We market our Caltex-
brand fuels and lubricants through a regional 
network of service stations and distributors.

Chevron’s investments in the region create jobs 
and contribute to the environmental and social 
development of the communities where we 
operate, establishing us as a partner of choice  
in the region.

The following examples highlight our work and 
that of our partners in a range of areas in four 
of the countries where we operate.

The Bibiyana natural gas field, operated by Chevron Bangladesh 
Block Twelve Ltd., began production in March 2007. It is one of 
Bangladesh’s most important sources of energy and one of the 
largest gas fields in the country.

Iskandar Haryanto (seated) and Nanang 
Nurjaman, production operators at  
Chevron’s geothermal plant in Salak,  
West Java, Indonesia, monitor the overall 
plant operations from the control room.

26

During the Bibiyana project’s development, more than 200 meet-
ings were held with community members to understand their 
concerns and explain the project’s impacts and benefits. Residents 
were surveyed to understand their perceptions of the project, 
and relationships were built with local leaders, communities and 
nongovernmental organizations.

Considered a cultural and economic asset in Bangladesh, land 
was important to the project’s development. Chevron took steps 
to mitigate the impact of land acquisitions and leases by building 
the pipeline without displacing people from their homes. Also, five 
temporary offices were established along the pipeline route to help 
landowners register their deeds, secure payment from the authori-
ties and answer questions about the project.

The Livelihood Program was established to assist landowners 
and economically vulnerable community members in the vicinity 
of the project. Administered by Friends in Village Development 
Bangladesh, a local NGO, the program provided training in capacity 
building, start-up funding, and ongoing support to 1,300 families for  
handicraft and agricultural microbusinesses. Other community con-
tributions included mandatory safety training for 5,000 employees, 
the establishment of a clinic to provide health care to more than 
6,500 villagers, and support of three local high schools.

Chevron helped communities recover from floods in September and  
Cyclone Sidr in November 2007 by providing more than $250,000 
to community members and NGOs assisting in recovery efforts.

Philippines  

Supporting Education Through  
Disaster Relief in the Philippines

Chevron Geothermal Philippines Holdings, Inc. operates the  
Tiwi and Makiling-Banahaw geothermal fields in Albay and 
Laguna/Batangas provinces. These operations contribute to 
Chevron’s  current position as the largest private producer of  
geothermal energy in the world.

In November 2006, Typhoon Reming hit the Philippines with  
sustained wind speeds as high as 145 miles (230 km) an hour.  
In Tiwi, the most severely damaged facilities were the public 
schools, 90 percent of which were damaged or destroyed.

In the storm’s aftermath, Chevron provided immediate relief to 
local communities near company operations and began exploring 
long-term reconstruction strategies, working with the Tiwi local 
government, government agencies and nongovernmental organiza-
tions. Neighboring families received food, clothing and assistance 
for home repair. Over the long term, Chevron is partnering with 
Ayala Foundation USA, Aquinas University Foundation, Inc., and 
Meralco Industrial Engineering Services Corp. — all NGOs operating 
in the Philippines — to rebuild the town’s schools.

In June 2007, three new school buildings, constructed to withstand 
typhoon-force winds, were completed. About 700 students from 
local villages are expected to benefit from the new structures.

Thailand  

Empowering Youth in Thailand

Chevron is Thailand’s leading crude oil and natural gas producer. 
Natural gas from Chevron assets generates approximately one-
third of Thailand’s electricity. Our Caltex-branded operations 
rank among Thailand’s leading suppliers of petroleum products.

Above: At Chevron’s Platong oil and gas field production 
platform in the Gulf of Thailand, Permpol Pakphon (left) and 
Chaisuk Thonglor review safety procedures before starting  
the day’s work.

As part of a fundraising campaign launched by Chevron’s 
upstream and downstream operations to honor the 60th anni-
versary of King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s accession to the throne, 
Chevron provided scholarship funding for a second year to 
underprivileged students at Phra Dabos school. The school was 
established in 1976 by the king to help disadvantaged youth and 
adults contribute to their communities by providing one-year 
training in such areas as mechanics, electronics, carpentry, 
handicrafts and agriculture. In addition to Chevron’s donation 
of nearly $1.2 million to the campaign, an employee and public 
campaign raised approximately $500,000. The funds will pro-
vide 360 scholarships over six years to underprivileged youth 
attending the Phra Dabos school.

Chevron employees in Thailand raised funds to support 
BaanGerda, a small community north of Bangkok where  
HIV-positive children, mostly orphans, live and receive medical 
treatment in family homes under the care of foster parents. 
BaanGerda is a project of the Center for the Protection of 
Children’s Rights Foundation, a Bangkok-based nonprofit.

27

 
How do you help a country 
diversify its energy supplies 
while protecting the 
environment?

Through geothermal operations in Indonesia and the Philippines,  
Chevron is providing clean, renewable energy to meet the needs of 
16 million people. In Indonesia, we are helping the country harness its 
geothermal resources to meet growing energy demand and sustainable 
development objectives. In 2007, our Darajat Unit III geothermal plant 
began commercial production. With other Darajat units and our Salak 
project, shown here, our operations provide energy sufficient for  
3.9 million homes.

Tedi Adihitama (standing) and Arief Syamsuliana, power plant operators of 
Chevron’s geothermal operations in Salak, West Java, Indonesia, conduct regular 
maintenance on pipes.

28

Environment and  
Climate Change

We are committed to protecting people and the environment — a core value of  
The Chevron Way. This section describes our plans, programs and achievements 
on a range of issues, including climate change, renewable energy and environ-
mental management. In 2007, we continued to integrate standardized world-class 
environmental practices into our day-to-day operations. We recognize that 
 providing energy in a safe, environmentally responsible way is fundamental to  
our success as a company.

29

Climate Change

At Chevron, we recognize and share the 
concerns of governments and the public 
about climate change. The use of fossil fuels 
to meet the world’s energy needs is a con-
tributor to an increase in greenhouse gases 
(GHGs) — mainly carbon dioxide (CO2) and 
methane — in the Earth’s atmosphere. There 
is a widespread view that this increase is 
leading to climate change, with adverse 
effects on the environment.

GHG emissions come from a variety of 
sources, including power generation, trans-
portation, agriculture, manufacturing and 
other activities. Fossil fuels — coal, oil and 
natural gas — release CO2 during produc-
tion and consumption. Based on current 
projections of population and economic 
growth, the world’s consumption of energy 
is expected to grow by 55 percent by 2030. 
The majority of that energy will be provided 
by fossil fuels, even as lower-carbon alterna-
tives continue to emerge.

Our Action Plan on Climate Change, now in 
its sixth year of implementation, reflects a 
balanced approach to addressing climate 
change through short- and long-term meas-
ures. The following sections will highlight 
our efforts under the plan.

Guided by our Seven Principles for 
Addressing Climate Change, published in 
2007, Chevron is working internationally 
and at the U.S. federal and state levels to 

build consensus on climate change policy.  
For example, we helped develop the core  
recommendations of a study by the National 
Petroleum Council, an advisory committee 
to the U.S. secretary of energy. The study 
recognized that reducing carbon emissions 
and enhancing energy security are dual, 
interdependent challenges. Innovation, 
collaboration and partnership will be crucial 
to address both, as will a global policy 
frame work. In Australia, we provided input 
to the government on the development of a 
carbon trading scheme. In California, we are 
actively participating in the development of 
climate change policy and regulations.

Reducing Emissions  
and Improving Efficiency
The two primary sources of our GHG emis-
sions are combustion, which occurs during 
operations, and flaring and venting of natu-
ral gas, a byproduct of crude oil production. 
Our total GHG emissions for the year came  
to 60.7 million metric tons of CO2 equiva-
lent,1 compared with our goal of 63.5 million 
metric tons. For 2008, we are setting a 
preliminary goal of 62.5 million metric tons.

operated assets’ GHG emissions for 2004 
through 2006. DNV has determined that 
the Chevron GHG estimates are accurate 
with a high degree of certainty and gener-
ally consistent with the Chevron Emissions 
Inventory Protocol and voluntary report-
ing practices such as the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development/ 
World Resources Institute Greenhouse  
Gas Protocol. The full version of DNV’s 
verification statement is available on our 
Web site.

Chevron has made a long-term commitment 
to improved energy efficiency in our day-
to-day operations, which will diminish our 
own carbon emissions. In 1992, we began 
tracking the efficiency of our energy use 
across all of our operations. Since that time, 
we have increased our energy efficiency per 
unit of output by 27 percent. In 2007, our 
energy efficiency was the same as 2006 and 
slightly better than forecast.3 We continue 
to set yearly targets for improvement. For 
our company’s operated assets, the total 
energy consumption in 2007 was 918 trillion 
Btu. The cost of energy to the company was 
approximately $5.6 billion.

Based on available information, we estimate 
that our products resulted in emissions from 
combustion of approximately 404 million 
metric tons of CO2 in 2007.2

Chevron engaged Det Norske Veritas (DNV) 
to conduct third-party verification of our 

We also are delivering energy efficiency  
and renewable energy solutions to  
external clients through our subsidiary 
Chevron Energy Solutions. Please see the 
Renewable Energy section on page 34 for 
more information.

Chevron and its partners employ cogeneration to 
efficiently produce steam and electricity to power 
operations in California’s San Joaquin Valley.

30

GHG Emissions by Source4
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

 Combustion  

 Flaring and venting  

 Other

GHG Emissions by Sector4
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

 Upstream  

 Downstream  

 Other

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:48)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:40)(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:42)

(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:39)

(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:46)(cid:37)(cid:39)

(cid:46)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:43)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:42)(cid:46)(cid:37)(cid:48)

(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:37)(cid:48)

(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:42)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:42)

Total GHG Emissions by Type4
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Energy Efficiency Performance3
Percentage improvement since 1992 baseline

2007	
2006	
2005	
2004	
2003	
2002	

Direct 
64.1	
65.4	
62.3	
62.2	
62.6	
62.8	

Indirect 
—3.0	
—3.0	
—2.7	
—2.4	
0.3	
—0.2	

Grid Credits
—0.5
—0.9
—0.7
—0.5
—0.9
—0.9

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:40)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:39)

(cid:40)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:41)

(cid:39)

(cid:41)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:40)

(cid:41)(cid:40)

(cid:40)(cid:46)

See page 30 for more information.

(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:42)

(cid:42)(cid:46)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:43)

1   Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported on an equity basis for all businesses in which Chevron has an interest except where noted below. The following 
entities are not currently included in the Chevron corporate greenhouse gas inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, 
Azerbaijan International Operating Co., the Chad/Cameroon pipeline joint venture, Caltex Australia Ltd.’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, and other refineries 
in which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent or less. These are entities over which Chevron does not have full operational control or which do not 
generally follow Chevron’s corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible protocol.

2  Product emissions are calculated based on total 2007 upstream liquids, gas and coal production figures from Chevron’s 2007 Annual Report. The emission 

factors used are from the American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimations Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry, 
published in 2004.

3  Chevron no longer uses the Chevron Energy Index to report externally on energy efficiency due to a recalibration in 2007 that makes year-to-year comparisons 

inaccurate. The company is now reporting energy efficiency expressed as a percentage improvement from 1992.

4  Chevron’s net decrease of approximately 1 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent emissions from 2006 to 2007 can be attributed primarily to reduced flaring 
in western Africa, the divesture of Chevron’s share of a refinery in the Netherlands and improved estimation methods. The reduction is offset primarily by 
emissions from increased production in Nigeria.

 Chevron’s 2004, 2005 and 2006 greenhouse gas emissions have been restated from 60.7, 59.0 and 61.9 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent to 59.4, 58.8 and 
61.5 million metric tons, respectively, as a result of continuing data analysis and improvements in Chevron’s environmental reporting.

 Due to rounding, individual numbers may not sum to the total numbers.

31

 
 
 
Gas Flaring and Venting Chevron is 
 working to minimize gas flaring and venting 
and the GHG emissions that result from this 
practice. We pursue all feasible opportuni-
ties to reduce flaring and venting in our 
global operations, even in the absence of 
regulations requiring reductions.

As a member of the Global Gas Flaring 
Reduction Partnership, Chevron actively 
participated in regional workshops that 
developed country-specific plans to 
minimize gas flaring. Our business units 
are implementing projects in Angola, 
Kazakhstan, Nigeria and other locations 
expected to produce significant GHG  
reductions by 2010.

Gorgon Carbon Sequestration In 2007, 
Chevron Australia Pty Ltd received environ-
mental approvals for the Gorgon Liquefied 
Natural Gas (LNG) project located on Barrow 
Island, off the northwest coast of Australia. 
As part of the project, Chevron is proposing 
to build one of the largest geo sequestration 
projects in the world. The CO2 present in 
the natural gas would be injected into a 
deep underground sandstone reservoir 
below Barrow Island. This reservoir CO2 is 
extracted from the natural gas as a part 
of normal gas-processing operations and 
would otherwise have been vented to the 
atmosphere. Over the life of the project, 
approximately 120 million tons of reservoir 
CO2 are expected to be safely injected more 
than 1.5 miles (2.4 km) underground. The 
project includes state-of-the-art technology 
that would make it one of the world’s most 
efficient LNG projects in terms of green-
house gas emissions.

Accounting for Carbon Costs in New 
Project Evaluation All new capital proj-
ects and development initiatives must go 
through a rigorous decision making process 
to identify potential risks and benefits. We 
incorporate the cost of carbon emissions 
into this analysis. During 2007, Chevron 
introduced additional tools to forecast 
 carbon costs in the evaluation process.

Efficiency Gains Through Cogeneration 
Worldwide, Chevron operates cogeneration 
units at refineries, production facilities and 
other sites, with a combined electrical gen-
erating capacity of about 3,500 megawatts. 
These units, also referred to as combined 
heat and power units, generate electricity 
about twice as efficiently as the average 
power supplied by a local utility company.

Our Kern River Cogeneration Co. facility in 
California, a joint venture, was the state’s 
first large cogeneration facility. It has a 
generating capacity of 300 megawatts 
and, after 20 years of operation, went 
through air emissions permit and licensing 
revisions in 2007. To comply with the new 
requirements, Chevron worked with General 
Electric to install industry-leading combus-
tion control technology, expected to be in 
operation at Kern River in 2008.

Investing in Research,  
Development and Technology
Chevron supports academic and govern-
ment research programs to explore climate 
change policies and technologies, including 
carbon sequestration. We participate in the 
West Coast Regional Carbon Sequestration 
Partnership, one of seven regional partner-
ships sponsored by the U.S. Department 

of Energy working to create a “carbon 
atlas” of sequestration potential across 
North America.

Examples of other programs in which we 
participate include the following:

•  Chevron is a founding sponsor of the Joint 

Program on the Science and Policy of 
Global Change, established in 1991 at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The 
program is an interdisciplinary organiza-
tion that conducts research, independent 
policy analysis and public communication 
on issues of global environmental change.

•  Chevron provides financial support to 

the Global Energy Technology Strategy 
Program, created by the U.S. Department 
of Energy and the University of Maryland, 
to advance technology that will address 
the long-term risks of climate change.

•  Chevron has actively participated in the 
work of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change since 2004. Chevron staff 
provided reviews and comments during 
the official expert review rounds of the 
panel’s Fourth Assessment Report, final-
ized in November 2007.

•  Chevron continues to participate in the 

Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum, 
an international climate change initiative 
focused on development of improved cost-
effective technologies for the separation 
and capture of carbon dioxide.

Supporting Flexible and  
Economically Sound Policies
In 2007, Chevron joined the board of 
Resources for the Future (RFF), a nonprofit, 
nonpartisan organization that conducts 

Chevron’s U.S. midcontinent operations surpassed energy 
efficiency forecasts in 2007. Terry Sliva, of the McAllen 
Field Management Team in Texas, uses a portable exhaust 
emissions analyzer to measure the amount of nitrogen oxides 
and carbon monoxide emitted to the atmosphere from an 
internal combustion engine. Chevron monitors emissions as 
part of its efforts to improve air quality, enhance operational 
safety and save energy.

32

Chevron’s Seven Principles  
for Addressing Climate Change

1 Global Engagement

The reduction of greenhouse gases must  
be shared equitably by the top emitting 
countries of the world through long-term 
and coordinated national frameworks.

2 Energy Security

Oil, coal and natural gas are expected to 
dominate the energy supply for decades  
to come. Climate policy must recognize  
the role these critical energy sources  
play to ensure security of supply and  
economic growth.

3 Maximize Conservation 

Energy efficiency and conservation are the 
most immediate and cost-effective sources 
of “new” energy with no GHG emissions. 
Government programs to promote energy 
efficiency and conservation must continue 
and should be enhanced.

economic research on environmental and 
natural resource issues. Chevron also par-
ticipated in the RFF-led U.S. Climate Policy 
Forum, which began in 2006 and brought 
together climate change experts from 23 
companies representing a broad spectrum 
of the U.S. economy.

We are working with officials in California 
to shape sound implementation approaches 
under legislation adopted in 2006 that 
mandates GHG emission reductions. In 
addition, we are especially active in shaping 
California’s new Low-Carbon Fuel Standard, 
which was established through Executive 
Order in January 2007. The standard calls 
for a 10 percent reduction in the carbon 
intensity of fuels by 2020, either by replac-
ing petroleum with biofuels or through the 
use of other transportation alternatives, 
such as electric vehicles. Chevron is work-
ing closely with state officials and industry 
partners to help regulators design an effi-
cient, achievable and equitable framework 
for businesses to use in meeting these 
new mandates.

In September 2007, Chevron submitted 
testimony to a select committee of the U.S. 
Congress detailing the challenges associ-
ated with carbon sequestration and making 
specific recommendations for govern-
ment action that could help address those 
challenges. We are providing technical and 
practical field experience to help federal 
legislators understand critical issues and 
prioritize their actions on emerging climate 
change legislation.

4 Measured and Flexible Approach 

GHG reduction objectives must avoid a  
disruptive economic impact and allow  
for realistic turnover of capital and a phase-
in of new low-carbon technologies. Periodic 
“checkpoints” are advised as new scientific 
and economic impact information becomes 
available.

5 Broad, Equitable Treatment

Broad and equitable treatment of all  
sectors of the economy is necessary to 
ensure no sector or company is dispropor-
tionately burdened.

6 Enable Technology

Government support and partnerships 
with the private sector for pre-competitive 
research and development in carbon mitiga-
tion and clean energy technologies must 
continue at an accelerated pace.

7 Transparency

The costs, risks, trade-offs and  uncertainties 
associated with climate policies must be 
openly communicated.

Seedlings of 30 native species at this nursery — maintained 
since 2001 through a partnership between Chevron, The 
Nature Conservancy, and the Society for Wildlife Research and 
Environmental Education — are being grown to help transform 
former ranch land back to natural forest near Antonina in 
Paraná, Brazil. Chevron provides for technical expertise and is 
developing more accurate methods to monitor carbon levels in 
the soil and plants.

33

Renewable Energy

With global demand for energy increasing, 
Chevron is making strategic investments 
in renewable energy technologies and 
collaborating with academic and govern-
ment institutions and business partners 
to develop new energy sources. While 
traditional fossil fuels such as coal, oil and 
natural gas are expected to provide about 
85 percent of energy demand worldwide 
over the next 25 years, Chevron believes 
that renewables and  alternative energy 
sources help diversify energy supplies and 
enhance energy security. Chevron has 
invested more than $2 billion in renew-
able and alternative energy and in energy 
efficiency services since 2002. We expect 
to invest more than $2.5 billion from 2007 
through 2009 in these same areas.

Chevron is currently the world’s  largest 
private producer of clean, renewable 
geothermal power. In July 2007, we began 
commercial production at the 110-megawatt 
Darajat Unit III geothermal power plant in 
Garut, West Java, Indonesia. The new unit 
brings our total geothermal generating 
capacity at Garut to 259 megawatts. Our 
total installed capacity is 1,273 megawatts 
in Indonesia and the Philippines.

Expanding Biofuels Research  
and Utilization
The use of biofuels, liquid fuels made from 
plants and other biomass, is likely to have 

growing significance in the global energy 
mix. Chevron Technology Ventures has 
established strategic alliances to research 
and develop new process technologies  
for converting nonfood biomass into 
second-generation biofuels and to study  
the feasibility of large-scale production. 
Chevron Technology Ventures is the division 
within Chevron that pursues innovation, 
commercialization and integration of  
emerging energy technologies.

In 2007, we established alliances on biofuels 
research with Texas A&M University and 
the Colorado Center for Biorefining and 
Biofuels. We also began our second research 
project with the U.S. Department of Energy’s 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
(NREL); the project will develop technology 
to produce transportation fuels from algae. 
We continue to work with the University of 
California at Davis, the Georgia Institute 
of Technology and NREL on previously 
announced research projects.

Chevron and Weyerhaeuser Co., one of the 
largest U.S. forest-prod ucts companies, in 
early 2008 formed a 50-50 joint venture — 
Catchlight Energy LLC — to develop the next 
generation of renewable transportation 
fuels from nonfood sources. Catchlight’s 
 initial focus is developing and demonstrating 
technologies for converting cellulose-based 
biomass from a variety of sources into 

economical, low-carbon biofuels. The joint 
venture reflects the companies’ shared view 
that nonfood bio fuels will play an important 
role in diversifying U.S. energy supplies.

Chevron has invested in distribution 
 terminals to accommodate the blending of 
first-generation ethanol into gasoline and is 
marketing and testing biodiesel blends. In 
addition, we are testing gas-to-liquids (GTL) 
diesel made from natural gas. Examples 
include the following:

•  In California, the Alameda–Contra Costa 
Transit District, one of the largest public-
transit operators in the state, began in 
2007 to test a blend of biodiesel supplied 
by Chevron in a fleet of 22 unmodified 
diesel buses. The six-month study will 
examine a blend made from 20 percent 
soybean biodiesel and compare it with the 
normal ultralow- sulfur diesel fuel used in 
transit vehicles throughout California. In 
the same program, some of the buses will 
operate on GTL diesel. Participants expect 
to learn more about the characteristics, 
distribution, efficiency and emissions of 
biodiesel and GTL diesel.

•  In the Philippines in 2007, we began pro-
viding a 1 percent biodiesel blend derived 
from locally grown coconuts in response 
to new legislation. We plan to increase 
that amount to 2 percent in 2009 and to 
introduce a 10 percent ethanol-blended 
gasoline in 2008.

California Renewable Energy Partnerships

Left: At the Dinuba Unified School District, Chevron Energy Solutions 
(CES) introduced an energy efficiency management system that enables 
the district to troubleshoot remotely. CES also renovated science 
classrooms with such features as Interwrite™ interactive electronic 
boards (shown). Right: In a $25 million joint research alliance, Chevron 
Technology Ventures and the University of California at Davis are 
pursuing advanced research aimed at converting nonfood sources of 
biomass, such as forest and agricultural residue, into transportation 
fuels. Postdoctoral researcher Laura Bartley conducts stress tests on 
switchgrass to learn which types will fare best in natural, unmanaged 
environments. Far right: CES is providing the Contra Costa Community 
College District with, among other improvements, a 3.2-megawatt solar 
energy installation, the largest of its kind at an institution of higher 
learning in North America.

34

•  In Brazil, which has been using ethanol 
for 30 years, Chevron markets both 
100 percent ethanol and blends of up to 
25 percent ethanol in gasoline.

Reducing Energy Costs  
for Customers
Our Chevron Energy Solutions (CES) 
subsidiary develops and constructs envi-
ronmentally sound projects that increase 
energy efficiency, reduce energy costs 
and provide reliable, high-quality power 
for  public institutions and businesses in 
the United States. CES applies proven 
technologies to meet customers’ specific 
needs, including infrastructure technolo-
gies, energy controls, solar power, biomass, 
fuel cells and other systems. Since 2000, 
CES has developed more than 800 projects 
involving energy efficiency or renewable 
power for education, government and busi-
ness customers. It currently has a portfolio 
of about 15 megawatts of installed or con-
tracted solar capacity.

Saving the Public Money  
Through Energy Efficiency
In 2007, CES undertook several projects 
that save public funds through energy 
efficiency efforts. CES partnered with the 
San Jose Unified School District and Bank 
of America in San Jose, California, to cre-
ate a 5-megawatt solar power and energy 

efficiency program — the largest of its kind 
in the United States. The project is expected 
to save about $25 million in energy costs 
over the lifetime of the solar power system, 
and it is anticipated that the project will 
avoid about 37,500 tons of carbon dioxide 
emissions, the equivalent of planting 400 
acres of trees.

Other recent CES projects that provide 
significant public benefits from energy effi-
ciency improvements include the following:

•  In central California’s Dinuba Unified 
School District, CES installed energy-
 efficient lighting, heating, ventilation and 
air conditioning systems; installed new 
roofing; and remodeled a high-tech science 
classroom. The Dinuba upgrades, totaling 
more than $20 million, are being paid for 
mostly by energy and operational savings 
and state grants.

•  CES completed upgrades to 20  buildings 

owned by the state of Colorado in Denver,  
Lakewood and Grand Junction. The modifi-
cations are expected to reduce energy costs  
at the facilities by 25 percent to 30 percent, 
saving taxpayers about $924,000 annually. 
In conjunction with the upgrades, three 
buildings at the capitol complex in Denver 
achieved certification by the U.S. Green 
Building Council through its Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design for 
Existing Buildings program.

Addressing the Technical  
Challenges of Hydrogen Fuel
Hydrogen is a clean and abundant fuel  
source found in water, natural gas and  
other organic compounds. While there  
are substantial difficulties associated with  
extracting hydrogen cost-effectively and  
storing it safely, we see hydrogen becom-
ing part of the world’s energy supply in the  
future as technical challenges are overcome  
and market forces create new opportunities. 
However, we believe it may take decades  
to transition to large-scale, economically  
sound  hydrogen- based energy and trans-
port systems.

Chevron operates five hydrogen fueling  
 stations in the United States, using hydrogen  
produced from both natural gas and water.  
These stations showcase the safe production,  
storage and dispensing of hydrogen fuel and  
create better understanding of the practical  
challenges that accompany its widespread  
use. New stations began operating near  
Orlando, Florida, and Rosemead, California,  
and at the Selfridge Air National Guard Base  
in Michigan in early 2007.

Four of these stations are part of the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s Controlled Hydrogen 
Fleet and Infrastructure Demonstration and  
Validation Program, scheduled to end in 2009.  
The Orlando project, which is part of a sepa-
rate program, is also scheduled to end in 2009.

35

Environmental Management

Protecting the environment while meeting 
the world’s demand for energy is funda-
mental to our business success. We are 
continually striving to improve our processes 
in order to reduce the environmental impact 
of our activities and operations.

Chevron’s Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS) enables us to 
systematically manage safety, health, the 
environment, reliability and efficiency to 
achieve world-class performance. In 2007, 
we continued to pursue the following envi-
ronmental performance strategies: defining 
world-class standards, measuring and com-
municating performance, and demonstrating 
continual performance improvement.

Defining World-Class Standards
In 2007, we focused many of our efforts  
on integrating OEMS environmental 
performance objectives and guidance 
into our operations. Chevron adopted an 
updated Corporate Biodiversity Statement 
in early 2007. We now require that teams 
incorporate biodiversity assessments when 
evaluating capital projects as part of our 
Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment (ESHIA) process. In addition, 
we provided guidance to business units 
and operating companies on incorporat-
ing biodiversity considerations into our 
corporate Risk Management and Property 
Transfer processes. We established the 
Chevron Biodiversity Network to share and 
enhance best practices for biodiversity 
conservation and to identify new oppor-
tunities and emerging issues relevant to 
Chevron operations.

Our Global Upstream organization is 
 implementing our corporate Third-Party 
Waste Stewardship process through 

the  adoption of a new environmental 
 performance standard. The standard guides 
the use of third-party waste facilities in 
order to minimize environmental impact.

Measuring and  
Communicating Performance
We continue to improve our ability to 
 monitor, evaluate and enhance our envi-
ronmental performance. A new corporate 
metric that we introduced in 2006 tracks 
the amount of oil in our water discharges.  
In 2007, the average hydrocarbon con-
centration in our water discharges was 
3.70 parts per million (ppm) for Chevron 
manufacturing and chemical facilities, and 
an average of 15.86 ppm for our upstream 
operations. We also developed a Loss of 
Containment metric in 2007 designed to 
improve how we manage the process safety 
of our plants, mentioned on page 18. We 
plan to collect data on this metric beginning 
in 2008.

As summarized in the charts on pages 31 
and 37, we continue to track and report on 
our air emissions, petroleum spills, energy 
efficiency and GHG emissions, including 
releases from flaring and venting.

Demonstrating  
Continual Improvement
We outperformed our goal for reducing  
GHG emissions in 2007, and our energy 
 efficiency remained the same as the previ-
ous year, as described in the Climate Change 
section on page 30. The volume of petro-
leum spilled exceeded the volume spilled 
in 2006, although it was improved over 
our 2002 through 2005 performance. Our 
chemical spill volume for 2007 was 332,398 
kilograms, with a total of 143,227 kilograms 
recovered. This is an improvement over  

our 2006 performance of 335,743 kilograms 
spilled and 99,246 kilograms recovered.  
The accompanying data charts summa-
rize our performance in air emissions and 
 petroleum spills.

Responsible Development of Natural  
Gas Resources Chevron’s work on the 
Piceance Basin project in western Colorado 
is an example of how we implement ESHIA 
with extensive community input. Chevron 
plans to develop up to 40,000 acres 
(162 sq km) of natural gas reserves in the 
Piceance Basin. Because the development is 
on privately owned land and no federal per-
mits are needed, there are no regulations 
requiring impact assessments. Nevertheless, 
ESHIA is being used as a framework for 
engaging with stakeholders and assessing 
potential positive and negative effects of 
our operations.

Following a series of public stakeholder 
meetings held throughout 2007, we are 
planning to complete the final ESHIA report 
and ongoing management plan by the 
summer of 2008. The management plan 
will incorporate social and environmental 
considerations into the design and operation 
of the natural gas project. Directional drill-
ing technology, which allows multiple wells 
to be drilled from the same location, will 
minimize the project’s footprint and allow 
for continued agricultural use of more land 
while preserving the natural resources of 
the area. Ongoing dialogue with the citizens 
of De Beque, located near the project, led 
to safety improvements at a nearby school, 
including moving the school’s playground 
away from a road used by trucks and erect-
ing a concrete safety barrier along portions 
of the school property.

36

Global Air Emissions1, 2
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Air Emissions1, 3
Metric tons

Petroleum Spills4
Volume in barrels

 Upstream  

 Downstream  

 Other

 VOCs  

 SOx  

 NOx

 Total volume  

 Volume recovered

(cid:77)(cid:70)(cid:58)(cid:106)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:69)(cid:38)(cid:56)

(cid:74)(cid:70)(cid:111)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:111)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:39)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:42)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:48)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:45)(cid:46)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:46)

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:44)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:39)

(cid:41)(cid:45)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:39)

(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:43)

(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:43)(cid:41)(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)
(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)
(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)
(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:44)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:40)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:47)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:42)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:44)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:42)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:42)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:43)(cid:44)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:39)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:48)

(cid:42)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:42)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:43)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:42)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:43)(cid:40)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:40)(cid:43)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:44)(cid:48)

(cid:41)(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:43)(cid:39)

(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:44)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:48)(cid:45)

(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:44)(cid:44)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:39)

(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:42)(cid:44)

(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:42)

(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:39)(cid:40)

4  The total 2007 petroleum spill volume 

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:45)

exceeded 2006 results but improved over 
prior years’ nonhurricane-related performance. 
More than 75 percent of the volume spilled 
was recovered.

Global Air Emissions by Sector1, 2
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Air Emissions1
Metric tons per million barrels processed

Petroleum Spills
Number of spills

  Upstream  Downstream 

Other

VOCs	

SOx	

NOx

2007	
2006	

2005	

2004	

2003	

2002	

34	

30	

25	

22	

25	

25	

25	

34	

35	

36	

31	

33	

24

23

22

23

24

24

VOCs	

SOx	

NOx	

2007	

2006	

2005	

2004	

2003	

2007	

2006	

2005	

2004	

2003	

2007	

2006	

2005	

2004	

2003	

240,716	

357,727	

445,049	

402,362	

N/A	

63,223	

82,922	

87,455	

96,809	

18,788	

26,100	

23,442	

24,330	

N/A	

20,451	

25,574	

23,986	

1,136

87

212

80

N/A

7,970

9,714

7,433

26,091	

10,499

111,050	

29,010	

11,907

121,378	

113,001	

97,829	

89,764	

14,041	

16,020	

15,837	

9,257

9,083

8,250

13,877	

10,656

100,046	

13,109	

12,475

2007	
2006	
2005	

2004	

2003	

2002	

826
803

846

986

1,145

1,502

1   Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) derive primarily from fugitive emissions from equipment (such as valves, pumps and compressors), flaring and venting, and 

flashing gas. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) occur during combustion.

2  Global VOC emissions were reduced by 32 percent compared with 2006 primarily due to improved emissions estimates as part of ongoing improvements in 

Chevron’s environmental reporting. 

 Global SOx emissions decreased by 22 percent compared with 2006 mainly due to improvements at the Pascagoula Refinery in Mississippi, United States, and 
the Cape Town Refinery in South Africa; changes in the crude feedstock for the Cape Town Refinery; and a reduction of flaring in Chevron’s Angola operations. 

 Global NOx emissions increased by approximately 5 percent compared with 2006. This is primarily due to additional equipment associated with the restart of 
production in one of Chevron’s Nigeria facilities.

  VOC and NOx emissions in the “Other” category increased due to additional operations allocated to that category.

3  U.S. Refining NOx and SOx emissions decreased mainly due to improvements at the Pascagoula Refinery.

Far left: Chevron’s partnership with wildlife organizations, scientists and community members promotes biodiversity in the Gunung Halimun Salak National Park 
and protects species such as this Javan leopard. Chevron’s Salak geothermal field is situated in the park. Left: The Wildlife Habitat Council nominated Chevron’s 
former refining facility near Cincinnati, Ohio, United States, for two awards in 2007 — the Pollinator Award and the Wings Over Wetlands Award — for projects that 
“demonstrate excellence in the areas of wildlife habitat enhancement and restoration.” Since 1986, a significant portion of the site has been an actively managed 
green space. The tiger swallowtail butterfly is one of many species thriving amid 700 acres (2.8 sq km) of reclaimed habitat.

37

 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Product Stewardship Managing potential 
risks of our products throughout their  
life cycles, called “product stewardship,”  
is a part of OEMS. We identify, assess and 
manage potential environmental, health  
and safety risks associated with a product 
from conception to consumption, recycling 
or disposal.

In 2006 and 2007, Chevron conducted 
 product reviews in Australia, Europe, 
Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, Ukraine 
and the United States. These assessments 
examined potential life cycle risks of 
products such as biodiesel, diesel, ethanol, 
gasoline and jet fuel. In 2007, we adopted a 
standardized process to implement product 
stewardship in our Global Downstream 
business units and took steps to apply 
this process in every country where we 
sell products.

Emergency Preparation and Response 
Chevron maintains thorough systems to 
 prepare for unforeseen events and respond 
to potential spills and other emergen-
cies. We train and support our emergency 
response teams to rapidly respond to 
incidents. Our facilities worldwide have 
preparedness plans in place for events 
that include oil spills, hurricanes, pandemic 
 influenza and earthquakes.

We conduct training and drills around the 
world. In September 2007, Chevron was  
a key participant in a regional marine  
spill exercise held on the Black Sea. The  
government of Turkey hosted the emer-
gency response drill, and more than 250 
individuals participated. These included 
government officials from countries bor-
dering the Black Sea, as well as industry, 
media and supplier representatives. The 
three-day drill culminated a multiyear effort 
to build emergency response cooperation 
among countries around the Black Sea. The 
exercise demonstrated the success of the 
spill response agreement between these 
nations and underscored the effectiveness 
of a cooperative effort.

Update on Ecuador Litigation
In October 2007, Chevron filed a petition in 
an Ecuador Superior Court seeking  dismissal 
of an ongoing environmental lawsuit filed in 
2003. Chevron is challenging the  allegations 
on both legal and scientific grounds. The liti-
gation alleges environmental damage from 
Texaco Petroleum Co. (Texpet) when it was 
involved in oil exploration and production 
in Ecuador. Texpet was a minority partner 
in an oil-producing consortium from 1964 
through 1992 with state-owned oil company 
Petroecuador. In 1998, Texpet completed a 
$40 million environmental remediation and 
public works program reflective of Texpet’s 
share of the consortium. The government 
of Ecuador declared that the remediation 
was completed according to the terms 
and parameters agreed upon and released 
Texpet and its affiliated companies from any 
future environmental liabilities.

Chevron’s petition cites multiple examples 
of inappropriate interference in the trial by 
Ecuador’s executive branch of the govern-
ment, judicial misconduct and misconduct 
by the plaintiffs’ attorneys and their 
technical staff. It also cites the record of 
environmental mismanagement by the 
state-owned oil company Petroecuador, 
which has operated the oil fields since 
Texpet ceased to be the operator of the con-
sortium 18 years ago and which has failed 
to remediate its share of the consortium 
area. These actions constitute a denial of 
Chevron’s right to a fair and impartial trial 
based on evidence and the rule of law.

In a related matter, the U.S. District Court 
for the Northern District of California 
dismissed claims made by three Ecuadorian 
citizens against Chevron, who alleged that 
they or their relatives contracted cancer as 
a result of Texpet’s operations. Those plain-
tiffs admitted under oath that they or their 
relatives had never been diagnosed with 
cancer. The court dismissed their claims and 
imposed sanctions and fines against their 
attorney for presenting fabricated claims. 
Subsequently, claims filed by three other 
plaintiffs in the same case were dismissed 

voluntarily and on statute of limitations 
grounds. The judge’s ruling noted “this 
litigation is likely a smaller piece of some 
larger scheme against defendants.” 

Updated information about this lawsuit 
can be found in English and Spanish on our 
Web site.

Environmental Expenditures
Chevron estimated its worldwide environ-
mental spending in 2007 to be approximately 
$2.75 billion for its consolidated companies, 
based on definitions and guidelines from 
the American Petroleum Institute. These 
expenditures consisted of $950 million 
in capital expenditures for environmental 
projects and $1.8 billion in costs associ-
ated with preventing, controlling, abating 
or eliminating hazardous substances and 
pollutants from all our sites — operating 
facilities, closed or divested sites, and sites 
under going restoration.

Fines and Settlements
In 2007, some of our facilities paid fines 
and penalties for alleged violations of 
environmental, health or safety regula-
tions. We remain committed to improving 
performance and learning from these 
instances. The number of fines and settle-
ments decreased to 684 in 2007 from 699 
in 2006. The cost of environmental, health 
and safety fines and settlements increased 
to $14.06 million in 2007 from $8.8 million 
in 2006. Health and safety accounted for 
1.9 percent of the total, representing slightly 
more than $0.27 million; the remaining 
$13.79 million was for environmental issues, 
representing most of the cost.

Environmental, Health and Safety  
Fines and Settlements

2003	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007

Total paid  
  (US$ millions)  3.99	 6.33	 4.27	 8.77	 14.06

Total number 

470	

469	

577	

699	

684

38

 
About This Report

This report covers 2007 data and activities. We also occasionally mention 
events that took place in early 2008 when they help provide a clearer 
picture of our performance. This report covers our owned or operated 
 businesses and does not address the performance of our suppliers, 
 contractors or partners, unless otherwise noted. All financial information 
is reported in U.S. dollars. Our previous report was published in April 2007 
and covered 2006 data and activities.

Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information This 
Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron Corporation contains forward-
looking statements relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to 
conduct certain of its activities, based on management’s current plans and 
expectations. These statements are not promises or guarantees of future 
conduct or policy and are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other 
factors, many of which are beyond our control.

We continue to be informed by reporting frameworks and guidelines that 
include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, published in 2005 by the 
International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association 
(IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). We have included  
an index to help readers find information corresponding to the GRI and  
API/IPIECA indicators (see inside back cover).

This report, previous editions of our report and additional information  
can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of our Web site,  
www.chevron.com/cr-2007. We welcome your comments and feedback  
at CRReport@chevron.com.

Facing the Hard Truths About Energy was copyrighted in 2007 by the  
U.S. National Petroleum Council.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the  development, 
implementation or continuation of any program, policy or initiative 
discussed or forecast in this report may differ materially in the future. 
The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the date of this 
report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly update any statements 
contained in this report.

Legal Notice As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as 
“the company,” “the corporation,” “their,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may 
refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or 
to all of them taken as a whole. All of these terms are used for convenience 
only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate 
entities, each of which manages its own affairs.

Assurance Statement

  Scope of the Assurance
  Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) has been engaged by 
Chevron to review the reporting processes used in the creation of the 
Chevron 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report. The objective of the 
review was to validate the integrity of Chevron’s reporting processes.

  The scope of the assurance was limited to the processes used for globally 
reporting health, environmental and safety (HES) performance indicators. 
The review did not extend to LRQA evaluating the accuracy of data input 
into Chevron’s reporting processes.

  The Chevron 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report has been prepared  
by Chevron, which is solely responsible for the collection, presentation 
and accuracy of all data and information presented within it.

  Approach
  The assurance was based on interviews with key personnel to identify and 
gain an understanding of the reporting arrangements, followed by reviews 
of the processes for collecting, compiling, and reporting the relevant HES 
indicators. In order to form our conclusions, LRQA has carried out:

• A review of the documented reporting requirements to assure consis-
tency of scope, definition, and reporting for each of the indicators.
• A review of the reporting processes at the corporate level to evaluate 
the  processes used by Chevron to assure completeness, consistency 
and accuracy of data reporting across the organization.

• Reviews of the data reporting processes at a sample of three  business 

units chosen to assess local understanding and implementation of 
 reporting requirements.

• A review of the processes used to aggregate the information at the 

 corporate level for inclusion in the final report.

  Conclusions and Findings
  Based on the scope of the assurance and the information presented 
for review, objective evidence was available to support the following 
conclusions:

• Chevron has processes in place to determine that sites that contribute 

to health, environmental and safety metrics understand corporate 
reporting requirements and are included in corporate HES reporting.

• The methods used for calculating each metric are clearly defined  

and communicated.

• Data collection begins at the operating site level and is combined into 

corporationwide metrics.

• HES indicators included in the Corporate Responsibility Report are 
checked by Chevron for completeness, consistency and accuracy 
against its reporting requirements.

• Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 

is clear, and improvement in methodology is regularly undertaken.

  LRQA believes the Chevron reporting process is effective in delivering 

health, environmental and safety indicators for the purpose of evaluating 
and communicating corporate performance in these areas.

  Thomas Sliva

  On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
  February 28, 2008

  Lloyd’s Register, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, 
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this 
clause as the “LR Group.” The LR Group assumes no responsibility and shall 
not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance 
on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless 
that person has signed a contract with the relevant LR Group entity for the 
provision of this information or advice, and in that case, any responsibility or 
liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

39

 
 
 
Glossary

Bb
Barrels of oil-equivalent A measure to quantify 
crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas 
amounts using the same basis. Natural gas vol-
umes are converted to barrels on the basis of 
energy content. See Production. 

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on 
Earth. It encompasses genes, species, habitats and 
ecosystems, and the processes that support them. 

Business Conduct & Ethics Code Describes proper 
business conduct within Chevron and includes an 
overview of several of the most important laws 
and policies governing that conduct. All employees 
and board members must understand and comply 
with the code.

Cc
Capacity building A key area of focus for 
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which 
means targeting support toward programs that 
help individuals and institutions develop the skills, 
capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.

Carbon sequestration Capturing and storing 
 carbon dioxide in various ways, such as capture by 
vegetation or by injection into geologic formations 
for long-term storage, so that it does not enter or 
remain in the atmosphere as a greenhouse gas.

The Chevron Way Explains our values: who we are, 
what we do, what we believe and what we plan  
to accomplish.

Dd
Downstream The industry term used to refer to all 
petroleum activities from the process of refining 
crude oil into petroleum products to the distribu-
tion, marketing and sales of the products. 

Ee
Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment (ESHIA) A corporate standard pro c-
ess that requires capital projects to be evaluated 
for potential environmental, social and health 
impacts and requires that appropriate mitigation 
measures be developed. ESHIA improves decision 
making and incorporates stakeholder engagement 
throughout the project’s life cycle. The process 
makes sure that project impacts are eliminated 
or mitigated and benefits enhanced. ESHIA was 
adopted for deployment as a corporate standard 
in January 2007.

Ff
Flaring and venting The burning or release of 
 natural gas that is often produced in association 
with crude oil, a process that typically occurs 
when there is no market or onsite use for the gas.

Gg
Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts 
 natural gas into high-quality transportation fuels 
and other products. 

Geothermal energy A renewable source of energy 
that uses the heat energy of the Earth to produce 
electricity or to use directly for heating.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A multistake-
holder process and independent institution whose 
mission is to develop and disseminate globally 
applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. 

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap heat in 
the Earth’s atmosphere; such gases include water 
vapor, ozone, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous 
oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and 
sulfur hexafluoride. 

Ii
ISO 14001 Environmental management system 
standard developed by the International Standards 
Organization.

Ll
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is 
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to 
facilitate storage or transportation in specially 
designed vessels. 

Nn
Nongovernmental organization (NGO) An 
 organization that is independent from govern-
ment, generally a nonprofit organization devoted 
to providing assistance to or advancing a particu-
lar cause or issue. 

Oo
OHSAS 18001 An international Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment Series manage-
ment system specification.

Operating company A major Chevron company 
organized for a specific business purpose. 

Operational Excellence Management System 
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to 

Capacity Building

Chevron’s community engagement initiatives 
aim to help develop the sustainability of local 
enterprises in the communities near its opera-
tions. In West Java, Indonesia, chili farming 
businesses first supported by Chevron in 2005 
continue today.

40

systematic management of safety, health, the 
environment, reliability and efficiency in order  
to achieve world-class performance. 

Operator Term used to describe a company 
appointed by venture stakeholders to take pri-
mary responsibility for day-to-day operations  
for a specific plant or activity.

Pp
Partner In this report, partner is used in its 
broad sense to mean a person or organization 
associated with another in a common activity 
or one that shares a mutual interest. It does not 
imply a member of a contractual partnership in 
which the partners jointly own and carry on a 
business and proportionally share in liabilities, 
profits or losses of the business. 

Production Total production refers to all the 
crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas 
produced from a property. Gross production is 
the company’s share of total production before 
deducting royalties. Net production is gross  
production minus royalties paid to landowners. 
See Barrels of oil-equivalent. 

Rr
Renewable energy Energy resources that are 
not depleted when consumed or converted 
into other forms of energy (for example, solar, 
geothermal, ocean and tide, wind, hydroelectric 
power, and biofuels). 

Reserves Crude oil, natural gas liquids and 
natural gas contained in underground rock 
formations called reservoirs. Proved reserves 
are the estimated quantities that geologic and 
engineering data demonstrate can be produced 
with reasonable certainty from known reser-
voirs under existing economic and operating 
conditions. Estimates change as additional 
 information becomes available. 

Revenue transparency Refers to the practice of 
disclosing certain financial arrangements related 
to energy industry operations by industry and 
host governments. 

Ss
Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who 
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate 
 interest in our company’s performance. 

Tt
Transparency Making relevant and accurate 
information available to those with a legitimate 
interest in the organization. 

Uu
Upstream Industry term for crude oil and 
 natural gas exploration and production activities.

Vv
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights Principles developed by extractive-sector 
companies, human rights organizations, a trade 
union, and the U.S. and U.K. governments to 
guide companies in maintaining the safety and 
security of their operations within a framework 
that ensures respect for human rights and 
 fundamental freedoms.

GRI and API/IPIECA Index

THIS INDEx REFERS TO:

• 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version 3.0, 

core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially reported. 

• American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 

Association (API/IPIECA) sustainability reporting indicators.

API/IPIECA
(Additional indicators in italics)

Where reported

PROFILE DISCLOSURES

Strategy and Analysis

Organizational Profile

Report Parameters

Governance, Commitments  
and Engagement

GRI
(Additional indicators in italics)

1.1   1.2

2.1   2.2   2.3   2.4–2.8   2.9   2.10

Report Profile   3.1–3.4   

Report Scope and Boundary   3.5   3.6–3.8   3.9   3.10   3.11

GRI Content Index   3.12

Assurance   3.13
Governance   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.51   4.6   4.71   4.8    
4.9   4.101
Commitments to External Initiatives   4.11   4.12   4.13

Stakeholder Engagement   4.14   4.15–4.17

SOC-6

ECONOMIC

Economic Performance   EC1   EC2   EC3   EC4   

ENVIRONMENTAL

Market Presence   EC6   EC7

Indirect Economic Impacts   EC8

Materials   EN1   EN2

Energy   EN3   EN4   EN6

Water   EN8

Biodiversity   EN11   EN12   EN13   EN14

ECO-1   ECO-A1   ECO-2  
ECO-A2   ECO-3   ECO-A3

SOC-A4

ENV-5   ENV-A8

ENV-A7

ENV-A9

Emissions, Effluents and Waste   EN16   EN17   EN18   EN19    
EN20   EN21   EN22   EN23 

ENV-1   ENV-A1   ENV-2   ENV-A2   ENV-3    
ENV-A3   ENV-4   ENV-A4   ENV-A5   ENV-A6

Products and Services   EN26   EN27

Compliance   EN28

Overall   EN30

SOCIAL

Labor Practices and  
Decent Work

Employment   LA1   LA2

Employee Satisfaction   

Labor/Management Relations   LA4   LA5

SOC-A3

SOC-A2

Occupational Health and Safety   LA7   LA8

H&S-2   H&S-3   H&S-4

2, 4–5, 12–13, 18–20

Human Rights

Investment and Procurement Practices   HR1   HR2   HR3

SOC-1

Training and Education   LA10

SOC-5

Diversity and Equal Opportunity   LA13   LA14

Society

Nondiscrimination   HR4

Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining   HR5

Child Labor   HR6

Forced and Compulsory Labor   HR7

Security Practices   HR8

Indigenous Rights   

Community   SO1

Corruption   SO2   SO3   SO4

Public Policy   SO5   SO6

Compliance   SO8

SOC-4

SOC-7

SOC-9

SOC-A6

SOC-2

SOC-3   SOC-A1

Product Responsibility

Customer Health and Safety   PR1

H&S-5

Product and Service Labeling   PR3

Marketing Communications   PR6

Compliance   PR9

SOC-A4   SOC-A5   SOC-A7   SOC-8

4, 8, 12–14, 22–27

1–4, 6–7, 11–13

3–5, 39

39

5, 8, 11–13, 30, 39

41

39

4, 6–8

8, 10, 11, 25, 32–33, 39

4, 6, 8–11, 26–27, 36

5, 10, 21, 32

7, 16–17, 21

27

–

4, 8, 10, 12–13, 30–35

–

4, 8, 12–13, 26, 33, 
36–37

30–32, 36–37

13, 38

38

38

16

16–17

16

16–17

16

25

25

25

25

25

25

–

6–7, 10

8

–

12–13, 38

–

–

–

Key to Indicators: 

  Fully Reported in 2007 

  Partially Reported in 2007 

  Not Covered in 2007 

  Not Applicable

1 Information responsive to this indicator appears on the corporate governance section of our Web site: www.chevron.com.

 
 
 
 
 
Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA  94583-2324
www.chevron.com

(cid:60)(cid:101)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:94)(cid:112)

(cid:64)(cid:101)(cid:94)(cid:92)(cid:101)(cid:108)(cid:96)(cid:107)(cid:112)

(cid:60)(cid:101)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:94)(cid:112) (cid:71)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:93)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:100)(cid:88)(cid:101)(cid:90)(cid:92)

(cid:60)(cid:101)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:94)(cid:112) (cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:105)(cid:107)(cid:101)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:95)(cid:96)(cid:103)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:23)(cid:56)(cid:101)(cid:101)(cid:108)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:107)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:23)(cid:74)(cid:108)(cid:103)(cid:103)(cid:99)(cid:92)(cid:100)(cid:92)(cid:101)(cid:107)(cid:23)(cid:107)(cid:102)(cid:23)(cid:107)(cid:95)(cid:92)(cid:23)(cid:56)(cid:101)(cid:101)(cid:108)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:107)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:106)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:101)(cid:106)(cid:96)(cid:89)(cid:96)(cid:99)(cid:96)(cid:107)(cid:112)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:107)

2007 Annual Report

2007 Supplement to the Annual Report

2007 Corporate Responsibility Report

Chevron’s 2007 Annual Report, Energy > Ingenuity, and the Supplement to the Annual Report, 
Energy > Performance, are available in the Investor Relations section of our Web site,  
www.chevron.com. Printed copies of these documents can also be ordered on the Web site.

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent  
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

Cert no. SW-COC-1436

Design: Sequel Studio, New York

© 2008 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved. 

913-0386E  5/08

