Chevron V6.qxd  15/8/05  12:02 pm  Page B

Identifying Issues Taking Action Improving Performance

Chevron Corporation 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report

211243A4  10/8/05  12:07 pm  Page FC2

2 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO

1 4 SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES 

40 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 

3 CHEVRON AT A GLANCE

1 6 SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES OVERVIEW

42 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES OVERVIEW

4 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW

1 8 EMPLOYEES 

44 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY

6 BUSINESS CONTEXT AND CORPORATE

22 HEALTH AND SAFETY

RESPONSIBILITY

8 PRIORITIES, PROGRESS AND PLANS 

1 0 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND 

MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

1 3 STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION

26 HUMAN RIGHTS

27 HIV/AIDS

28 ETHICS

29 GLOBAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT

32 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

37 REVENUE TRANSPARENCY

38 ENGAGING IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS

EFFICIENCY

5 1 AIR EMISSIONS

54 SPILLS

56 FLARING

57 WATER AND WASTE

58 BIODIVERSITY

59 ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES, 

FINES AND LITIGATION

60 DECOMMISSIONING AND REMEDIATION

62 GLOSSARY

63 GRI AND API/IPIECA INDEX

64 ABOUT THIS REPORT

211243A4  10/8/05  12:07 pm  Page 1

Far left Trainee Mauricio Denga and Health,
Safety and Environment specialist Zinga Martine
on the North Nemba Platform offshore Angola. 
Below Fire protection specialist Ray Scott has 
a clear overview of the Pembroke Refinery in
Wales as he stands on the fully extended
hydraulic platform during weekly maintenance.

WELCOME

This is Chevron’s third Corporate Responsibility Report. It covers 2004 data and activities
and provides a detailed discussion of our progress on a range of issues we have identified 
as important to our company and stakeholders.

Our vision is to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership 
and performance. Corporate responsibility is key to achieving this vision.

Our company’s foundation is built on our values expressed in The Chevron Way. 
They distinguish us and guide our actions. We conduct our business in a socially 
responsible and ethical manner. We respect the law, support universal human rights, 
protect the environment and benefit the communities in which we work. 

Our report is also available on our Web site at www.chevron.com/cr_report/. We welcome 
your comments and feedback, which may be directed to CRReport@chevron.com.

1

211243A4  10/8/05  12:07 pm  Page 2

A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO

David J. O’Reilly, Chairman of the Board 
and CEO of Chevron Corporation.

Corporate responsibility, as embodied in The Chevron Way, has long been part 
of how we operate. In today’s competitive business environment, it has also taken 
on an increasingly strategic role. 

To succeed today, our company must
demonstrate world-class performance 
across every aspect of our business, from 
our technical and financial performance to
our contributions to and impact on society
and the environment. We are committed to
implementing the right strategies in these
areas and looking for new solutions that help
us responsibly supply energy and improve
the lives of people in the communities in
which we operate.

Developing our Corporate Responsibility
Report each year provides us with an
opportunity to review the efforts we have
under way to address these issues, assess 
our performance, and identify issues on the
horizon or opportunities to improve. It also
helps us demonstrate our commitment 
to transparency. This year, we have taken
steps to continue to enhance our reporting.
You will find some expanded data on issues
such as corporatewide air emissions and
political contributions. You will also read
about how some external organizations view
our company in areas they believe we are
performing well and in those they think we
have opportunities to improve. 

As you will see, we made progress during 
the year in a number of areas. We had our
safest year ever. We continued to improve 
our efficient use of energy. We significantly

reduced oil spills. We met our greenhouse 
gas emissions goal. And we issued flaring
and venting standards for our international
upstream operations. We also took steps 
to enhance our approach to environmental
stewardship and more clearly identify our
overall corporate responsibility priorities 
and near-term plans. 

Although we accomplished much in 2004, 
the year reminded us of the challenges we
face. Seventeen people died while working 
on behalf of Chevron. We will not be satisfied
until we reach our goal of zero incidents. 
In many of the communities in which we
operate, poverty is widespread and people 
lack the basic necessities of life. We are
seeking ways to make a greater and more
sustainable contribution to help people attain
the quality of life to which they aspire.

Chevron operates in some of the most
complex environments in the world. 
The issues we face are varied and evolving.
They range from the ways in which oil and
gas operations can positively or adversely
affect countries’ social and economic
development to concerns about global
climate change. For our company, helping
find solutions to these challenges is both
about living our values and achieving our
business objectives.

Going forward in 2005, we will continue 
our efforts to make meaningful, measurable
progress in those areas most important to
our company and our stakeholders. We will
continue to fund community engagement
programs that build capacity and contribute
to economic growth. We will begin
deployment of our corporatewide HIV/AIDS
policy. We will complete internal consultation
on our Human Rights Statement and explore
the best ways to deploy it globally. And
we will begin work to develop a long-term
greenhouse gas emissions forecast for
our company.

At Chevron, our vision is to be the global
energy company most admired for its people,
partnership and performance. To achieve this
vision, we must be excellent businesspeople,
valued and trusted partners, and welcomed
members of the community. In short, we 
must deliver the right results – the right way.
We are committed to doing both. 

Sincerely, 

Dave O’Reilly

2

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 3

CHEVRON AT A GLANCE

Chevron is one of the largest integrated energy companies in the world, based on 
market capitalization. Headquartered in San Ramon, California, we conduct business 
in approximately 180 countries. We are engaged in every aspect of the industry, 
including exploration and production; refining, marketing and transportation; 
chemicals manufacturing and sales; and power generation.

In 2004, Chevron produced an average of 
2.5 million barrels per day of oil-equivalent,
with approximately two-thirds of the volume
occurring outside the United States in more
than 20 different countries.

Upstream Major producing areas include
Angola, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the
Partitioned Neutral Zone (between Saudi
Arabia and Kuwait), the United Kingdom 
and the United States. Major exploration
areas include Angola, Nigeria, the U.S. Gulf 
of Mexico, Venezuela, and the offshore area
between Angola and Republic of the Congo.

Chevron holds vast natural gas resources 
in some of the world’s most prolific basins,
including Australia, where we are the largest
holder of undeveloped natural gas resources.
Plans are under way to commercialize these
resources through liquefied natural gas and
gas-to-liquids technologies.

Downstream With 21 wholly owned and
affiliated refineries, Chevron processed
approximately 2 million barrels of crude oil
per day in 2004 and averaged approximately
4 million barrels per day of refined products
sales worldwide. Strategic focus areas are
Asia, the U.S. West and Gulf coasts, Latin
America and sub-Saharan Africa. Worldwide,
we market products under the Chevron,
Texaco and Caltex motor fuel brands. Products
are sold through a network of approximately
25,700 retail stations, including those of
affiliated companies.

Other Businesses Chevron, through our 
50-50 joint venture Chevron Phillips Chemical
Company LLC, is one of the leading
manufacturers of commodity petrochemicals.
Chevron Oronite markets more than 500
performance-enhancing products and
supplies one-fourth of the world’s fuel and
lubricant additives. Chevron Energy Solutions

develops and constructs energy-saving
projects for external and internal customers.
Global Power Generation develops and markets
commercial power projects worldwide.

We also develop and commercialize several
advanced energy technologies, including
hydrogen infrastructure, advanced battery
systems, nanomaterials and renewable
energy applications. 

Chevron is a publicly traded company 
listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
More information on our structure and
operations can be found on our Web site 
at www.chevron.com/about/.

Chevron Global Operations

Our “Big 5”

2

4

1

3

These upstream projects are new oil and
natural gas developments expected to boost
production over the next five years. Three of
the projects are deepwater developments: 

1 The Agbami Field offshore Nigeria 

2 The Tahiti Field in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico 

3 The Benguela Belize–Lobito Tomboco

development offshore Angola  

Also among the “Big 5” are: 

4 An expansion project at our Tengizchevroil

joint venture in Kazakhstan 

5

5 The Greater Gorgon Area liquefied natural

gas project offshore Australia

Countries in which Chevron conducts business
Chevron Corporation headquarters, San Ramon, California, United States

3

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 4

PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 

Corporate Responsibility Performance
The following summarizes our key
achievements during the year and highlights
some of the challenges we face as we look to
the future. 

Environmental Management We undertook
an extensive effort to enhance environmental
stewardship, with a focus on continued
development of our operating standards,
measuring and communicating performance,
and demonstrating continuous performance
improvement. We are also conducting an
assessment of our Operational Excellence
Management System (OEMS) in order to
determine its alignment with ISO 14001, 
the international standard relating to
environmental management.

Management System Implementation
We trained our top 1,800 executives and
managers on leadership roles and behaviors

to support our OEMS. We also trained 46
coaches to cascade this program throughout
the company. 

approaches to improve the motor vehicle
safety performance of our workforce and 
in local communities.

Employee Survey We conducted our first
Global Employee Survey since the merger of
Chevron and Texaco. We found that 89 percent
of employees think the company acts
responsibly in relation to the environment,
86 percent think we act responsibly in
society and the communities in which we
operate, and 82 percent say they are treated
with dignity and respect. 

Health and Safety Based on Total Recordable
Incidents, 2004 was our safest year on record,
reflected in six straight years of improvement
in our workforce Total Recordable Incident
Rate. However, in 2004, 17 people died while
working on behalf of Chevron. Motor vehicle
crashes are the most common cause of
fatalities. We are developing several

HIV/AIDS We developed a comprehensive
plan for implementing our global HIV/AIDS
policy, which was finalized at the end of
2004. The rollout of the plan will be
coordinated by two full-time staff over the
next two years. We know that implementing
the policy at all Chevron locations will be
challenging. Our operations span a wide
range of locations and cultures with varied
awareness of and infrastructure to address
the disease. Despite these challenges, we
remain committed to its implementation. 

Community Engagement We continued
efforts to increase the focus and effectiveness
of our community investment activities 
by targeting them toward helping create
economic growth and helping build human

Key Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators 
[Goals are shown in brackets]

Socioeconomic 

Fatalities (employees and contractors)

Days Away From Work Rate (workforce)

Total Recordable Incident Rate (workforce)

Motor Vehicle Incidents (employees per million miles driven)

Percent of female and non-Caucasian males at the 
senior executive-level worldwide

Percent of females at mid-level positions and above worldwide

Percent of employees at senior-level positions and 
above working within their country of origin 

Total corporatewide spending in community investment
(US$ million)

Environmental

Total GHG emissions (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent)

Number of petroleum spills

Volume of petroleum spills (barrels)

Total energy use (trillions of Btus)

Energy efficiency (Chevron Energy Index)

Global SOx emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Global NOx emissions (thousands of metric tons) 

Global VOC emissions (thousands of metric tons) 

2003

12 [0]

2004

17 [0]

0.2 [0.2]

0.18 [0.17]

0.59 [0.59]

0.51 [0.51]

3.31

19.5

9.7

43

60.9

63.9

1,145

26,540

880

78

152.0

125.6

n/c*

3.01

20.8

9.9

48

63.8

62.5 [63]

986

15,514

873

76 [78]

133.4

114.3

426.8

Percent
change

Year-on-year 
performance

42

–10

–14

–9

7

2

12

5

–2

–14

–42

–1

–3

–12

–9

n/a

(cid:2)

(cid:2)

(cid:2)

(cid:2)

(cid:2)

n/a

*Not collected

Improvement

(cid:2)

Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline

Decline

4

(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 5

Chemist Gustavo Lopez prepares
a sample of refinery effluent 
to test for metals at Chevron’s
Richmond Environmental Lab,
California, United States.

and institutional capacity. We invested nearly
$63.8 million in community projects around
the world, including launching or expanding
key initiatives in the United States, Angola
and countries in Asia. Finding ways to
meaningfully and consistently measure 
and evaluate the impact and sustainability 
of our community programs remains a key
challenge going forward. 

Revenue Transparency Working together
with our business partners, host governments
and others, we continued our support for
increased transparency of energy-related
revenues. During the year, we negotiated 
a Production Sharing Contract with 
the Nigeria–São Tomé e Príncipe Joint
Development Authority (JDA) that includes 
a clause committing the JDA to publicly
disclose payments companies make to them. 

Energy Efficiency and Climate Change
We beat our energy efficiency target, reflected
in our Chevron Energy Index, by two full
points, saving approximately 20.85 trillion
Btus of energy and $72 million in costs. We
cut our greenhouse gas emissions by more
than 1 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent
over 2003, meeting our 2004 corporatewide
emissions goal. Maturing oil fields, more
technically challenging reserves and evolving
fuel specifications will present energy
efficiency challenges in the years to come.

Flaring In Nigeria, we reached a key milestone
with a final commitment to begin construction
on the West African Gas Pipeline, which will
reduce flaring by as much as 80 million
metric tons of CO2 equivalent over 20 years
while delivering gas to customers in Benin,
Ghana and Togo. We also reached an 

important milestone on our Escravos 
gas-to-liquids project. In 2005, Chevron
Nigeria Limited awarded the engineering,
procurement and construction contract for
the project, which is another key component
of our plans to reduce flaring from our
operations in Nigeria. Reducing flaring of
natural gas, which accounted for 24 percent
of our global greenhouse gas emissions in
2004, is key to cutting future emissions.

Spills Between 1999 and 2004, we reduced
the number of our oil spills by nearly 
55 percent and the volume of spills by 
more than 90 percent, achieving our spill
volume reduction goal one year early. 
The performance of our shipping company
continues to lead the industry. In 2004, our
operated tanker fleet did not experience a
single spill, the second straight year we have
achieved a spill-free record. 

Financial and Operating Highlights

Financial Highlights
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts

Net income

Sales and operating revenue1

Capital exploratory expenditures

Total assets at year-end

Total debt at year-end

Stockholder equity at year-end

Per-share data2

(cid:3) Net income – diluted
(cid:3) Cash dividends
(cid:3) Stockholders’ equity
(cid:3) Common stock price at year-end

Return on capital employed

Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio

Tax expense

(cid:3) U.S. income taxes
(cid:3) International income taxes
(cid:3) Income taxes on discontinued operations
(cid:3) Taxes other than on income

Research and development

Share repurchases3

2003

2004

$7,230

$13,328 

$119,575

$150,865

$7,363

$8,315

$81,470

$93,208

$12,597

$11,272

$36,295

$45,230

$3.48
$1.43
$16.97
$43.19

15.7%

25.8%

$1,387
$3,907
$50
$17,906

$6.28
$1.53
$21.47
$52.51

25.8%

19.9%

$2,301
$5,216
$100
$19,821

Operating Highlights

Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 
(thousands of barrels per day)

Net production of natural gas 
(millions of cubic feet per day)

Net oil-equivalent production 
(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day)

Refinery input (thousands of barrels per day)

Sales of refined products (thousands of barrels per day)

Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate 
and natural gas liquids (millions of barrels)

(cid:3) consolidated companies
(cid:3) affiliated companies

Net proved reserves of natural gas (billions of cubic feet)

(cid:3) consolidated companies
(cid:3) affiliated companies

Net proved oil-equivalent reserves (millions of barrels)

(cid:3) consolidated companies
(cid:3) affiliated companies

Number of employees at year-end

$228

$242

Total payroll (millions of dollars)

–

$2,100

Employee benefit costs (millions of dollars)

1 Excludes discontinued operation amounts
2 Data reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend  

in September 2004

3 Represents cost of shares purchased under the company’s $5 billion share repurchase

program announced on March 31, 2004

2003

2004

1,808

1,710

4,292

3,958

2,637

1,991

3,738

6,280
2,319

17,553
2,638

9,206
2,758

50,582

$2,816

$1,957

2,509

1,958

3,908

5,511
2,462

16,128
3,547

8,199
3,053

47,265

$2,858

$1,386

5

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 6

BUSINESS CONTEXT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY

As the global business environment evolves, our company is facing new opportunities 
and challenges stemming from a diverse range of economic, social and geopolitical factors. 

The Right Strategies >>>>>>>>>>>>
To remain true to our vision and produce
sustained, profitable growth in this changing
landscape, our business strategies focus on: 

(cid:3) Global Upstream – Grow profitability in core

areas and build new legacy positions.

(cid:3) Global Gas – Commercialize our equity gas
resource base by targeting North American
and Asian markets.

(cid:3) Global Downstream – Improve returns 
by focusing on areas of market and 
supply strength.

(cid:3) Invest in people to achieve our strategies.
(cid:3) Leverage technology to deliver superior

performance and growth.

(cid:3) Deliver world-class organizational

capability and performance in operational
excellence, cost reduction, capital
stewardship and profitable growth.

>>>>>>>>>>>>

How Corporate Responsibility Adds Value 
To execute our business strategies, we must
be able to access new resources and maintain
our ability to operate in the countries and
communities in which we work. Doing so rests,
in large part, on being the partner of choice.
Our approach to corporate responsibility
supports this objective – with host
governments, business partners and in the
communities in which we operate. 

Grounded in The Chevron Way, our corporate
responsibility efforts are designed to ensure
that our business continues to thrive while
we effectively manage the socioeconomic
and environmental issues we face. 

Our emphasis in the coming years is on
further integrating corporate responsibility
considerations into how we conduct our
business. This generates value by helping 
us attract and retain top talent, reinforcing
our capabilities to our shareholders, providing
us access to business opportunities, and
enhancing our reputation. We also are
engaging systematically with stakeholders 
to help us identify emerging issues and
respond effectively to evolving challenges
and expectations. Additionally, we are
applying what we learn to enhance our
practices and continually improve our
performance on specific issues, such as
health and safety, HIV/AIDS, human rights,
and climate change. 

To meet their business objectives, companies
that succeed in the 21st century will need 
to demonstrate exemplary financial, social
and environmental performance and deliver
commercial and social value in an increasingly
complex and interdependent world. We intend
to be one of those companies. 

The New Business Environment >>>>>>>>>>>>
Demand for energy around the globe is
increasing. By 2020, global population will
grow by approximately 1 billion people. This is
occurring at a time when many existing major
oil and gas production fields are maturing 
and their production is declining. Finding new
sources of energy to meet growing demand
will be more technically challenging and often
will require more energy to extract. Many of
these new sources are concentrated in
complex geopolitical environments – regions
affected by poverty, political instability and
weak governance systems.

Environmental issues also are continuing to
affect energy markets, increasing the demand
for natural gas and cleaner energy sources.
Conservation and efficiency will continue 
to play an important role as the least costly,
most reliable and most environmentally sound
new source of energy.

While the balance of supply and demand 
is tighter now than in recent decades, we 
are confident that global energy needs 
can be met. Doing so will require increased
efficiency and conservation, technological
and human ingenuity, and the willingness of
all parts of society to work together to find
sustainable solutions.

These trends make clear that we operate 
in an era of interdependence. At Chevron, 
we recognize that our long-term success
depends on our ability to gain access to 
new energy sources, to manage operations
soundly and efficiently in increasingly
complex environments, and to contribute 
to global and local economic development.
Our values and business strategies position
us to succeed in this new environment.

6

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 7

We believe our approach to corporate responsibility will help us manage and 
create value for our company in today’s dynamic business environment.

Defining Corporate Responsibility
At Chevron, we define corporate
responsibility as:

>>>>>>>>>>>>

(cid:3) Consistently applying our core values, 

set out in The Chevron Way.
(cid:3) Maximizing the positive impact 

of our operations on current and 
future generations.

(cid:3) Integrating social, environmental and
economic considerations into our core
practices and decision making.

(cid:3) Engaging with and balancing the needs 

of our key stakeholders.

Elements of Corporate Responsibility 
We identified these elements by conducting
an analysis of our operating environment 
and the competitive landscape. We examined
emerging trends to identify the broad issues
we expect will be most important to our
corporate responsibility performance over
the long term. We also assessed areas of
corporate responsibility performance and
competencies that will be most important 
in helping us meet our business objectives. 
To the six core elements initially identified
and reported, we added a seventh –
stakeholder consultation – as a vital element
of how we approach corporate responsibility.

The elements we see as central to corporate
responsibility are:

(cid:3) Business ethics and transparency
(cid:3) Workplace practices and employee relations
(cid:3) Environment, health and safety
(cid:3) Human rights
(cid:3) Community engagement and development
(cid:3) Integration of corporate responsibility into

our supply chain

(cid:3) Stakeholder consultation

Our vision is to be the global energy company most 
admired for its people, partnership and performance.
Corporate responsibility is key to achieving this vision.

“

Chevron has come a long way since F&C Asset Management’s first questions about
environmental and social risk management were met with stony silence. Today, the 
company has several internal champions to manage tough business issues, engage with
stakeholders, and push the company to new levels of disclosure. As of 2002, F&C believed
that Chevron had failed to tackle its most significant social and environmental challenges 
or communicate with concerned stakeholders. Today, the company has leapfrogged many 
of its peers by publishing a substantive corporate responsibility report and enhancing
programs in key areas. F&C has noted significant progress in: climate change measurement
and reporting, including a target for total carbon dioxide emissions; discussing its renewable
and alternative energy strategy; HIV/AIDS policy development and implementation; and
negotiating new contracts that support revenue transparency in tough markets such as
Angola. Chevron’s report is also increasingly data-driven, providing high-quality, year-on-
year reporting.

But much remains to be done to prove that social and environmental management is not 
just the flavor of the month. The company must demonstrate that its commitment extends
beyond internal champions to senior managers and the board and is actually embedded in
both company culture and compensation. Environmental and social performance targets
must be established and disclosed, allowing stakeholders to judge if the company is stretching.
While human rights initiatives are definitely progressing, they have been slow and may lack
consultation with stakeholders. Finally, to continue to build trust and credibility, the company’s
report should embrace transparency and balance, discussing the hardest questions and the
most difficult situations. While Chevron is still in the early stages, we are hopeful it will
continue on this new trajectory, continually improving its performance and demonstrating
increasing leadership.

”

Elizabeth Elliott McGeveran, Vice President, 
Governance & Socially Responsible Investment, F&C Asset Management plc

7

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 8

PRIORITIES, PROGRESS AND PLANS 

PRIORITY AREAS

See pages 

What we said... 2002 and 2003

(cid:3) We will develop Corporate Responsibility Expectations to provide employees with

operational guidance.

(cid:3) We will conduct initial training on the expectations and materials in a diverse sample

of business units to get feedback.

(cid:3) Our goal is to be recognized and admired for environmental excellence.
(cid:3) We are committed to further integrating environmental considerations into 
our business decisions and enhancing how we manage and measure our
environmental performance.

(cid:3) At the corporate level, we will engage more proactively with stakeholders in

important global issues that affect our operations.

(cid:3) We will publish an annual Corporate Responsibility Report and use the Global

Reporting Initiative (GRI) and other reporting frameworks.

(cid:3) Our ultimate goal is zero incidents.
(cid:3) Safety and reliability are the initial priorities in the deployment of our Operational

Excellence Management System (OEMS).

(cid:3) Our near-term target is to reduce the workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate by

more than 25 percent annually.

(cid:3) We will develop a draft Human Rights Statement and consult with major business

units for input.

(cid:3) We will develop materials to support corporatewide deployment of the statement,

with deployment beginning in 2004.

(cid:3) We will adopt a corporatewide HIV/AIDS policy and develop other tools and

resources to support its implementation by our business units.

(cid:3) Our goal is to become more systematic in how we identify, assess and address

community issues and become more focused in the ways we support the
communities in which we operate.

(cid:3) We are working to find ways to better measure and assess our impacts on economic

and social development of the communities in which we operate. 

(cid:3) At the heart of our approach to environmental responsibility are conservation 
and energy efficiency. Our goal is to continue to improve our corporatewide 
energy efficiency.

(cid:3) We are implementing a robust fourfold strategy to address climate change.
(cid:3) Our goal is to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of output from our
operations. We will conduct a third-party verification of our GHG emissions system
and begin establishing an annual GHG emissions goal.

INTEGRATION

ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT

STAKEHOLDER
CONSULTATION 
AND REPORTING

HEALTH AND
SAFETY

HUMAN RIGHTS

HIV/AIDS

10–11

10–12

13

22–25

26

27

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

32–36

CLIMATE CHANGE AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 

44–50

8

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 9

T Y   A R E A S

P R I O R I

The corporate responsibility elements we have identified provide a useful and
enduring framework for understanding what corporate responsibility means in
practice. We examined our approach to addressing each of these elements, which
has allowed us to set specific priorities, outlined in the table below. We are focused
on making meaningful, incremental progress on these issues in the near term. 

What we did... 2003 and 2004

What we plan to do next...

(cid:3) Developed draft Corporate Responsibility Expectations and materials to 

(cid:3) Conduct training with business units on the Corporate Responsibility Expectations,

support implementation.

(cid:3) Identified business units for initial training.

beginning in 2005.

(cid:3) Continued deployment of our Operational Excellence Management System, with

increased focus on the environmental components.

(cid:3) Clarified and enhanced environmental expectations to improve performance.

(cid:3) Implement our enhanced environmental expectations over the next five years,
focusing on continued development of operating standards, measuring and
communicating performance, and demonstrating continuous performance
improvement.

(cid:3) Increased corporate-level engagement on key global issues, including climate change,

(cid:3) Continue to consult regularly with stakeholders on key issues at all levels, as 

HIV/AIDS, revenue transparency, human rights and international development.
(cid:3) Published our first report (2002) and update report (2003), informed by the GRI.

Included a GRI index in our 2004 report.

(cid:3) Played a leadership role in the joint effort of the American Petroleum Institute and
the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association to
develop sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industry.

well as develop a more systematic approach to stakeholder consultation at the
corporate level. 

(cid:3) Develop tools that will encourage a more consistent approach to stakeholder

consultation, where appropriate, across our businesses. 

(cid:3) Continue annual Corporate Responsibility Reporting, with the goal of 

continual improvement.

(cid:3) Achieved our safest two years on record, as measured by workforce Recordable
Incident Rate. Very regrettably, we experienced 29 fatalities over the two-year
period, primarily from motor vehicle crashes.

(cid:3) Developed and deployed new tools for motor vehicle safety, contractor safety
management and repetitive stress injury prevention. Created “community of
practice” networks to share successful practices in these areas.

(cid:3) Continue to focus on safety, aiming to meet short-term performance targets and the

long-term goal of zero incidents.

(cid:3) Expand our motor vehicle safety effort to look at opportunities to help address road

safety more broadly in the communities in which we operate. 

(cid:3) Initiated internal consultation on the Human Rights Statement.
(cid:3) Developed draft supporting materials.

(cid:3) Complete consultation on our Human Rights Statement and training materials with

major business units. 

(cid:3) Begin corporatewide deployment of the statement by early 2006.

(cid:3) Finalized our corporate policy and developed an extensive implementation plan and

supporting materials.

(cid:3) Appointed two full-time staff to oversee implementation of the policy.

(cid:3) Target completion of global implementation by the end of 2006. High-risk 
countries with high or rising HIV/AIDS prevalence rates will be the initial
implementation priorities.

(cid:3) Completed a global review of our community programs.
(cid:3) Developed and began implementation of a new community engagement theme,

focused on capacity building and economic development.

(cid:3) Continue deployment of our community engagement strategy. Our goal is to have

an increased portion of our community investment targeted toward capacity
building and economic development programs.

(cid:3) Created a $5 million fund to assist major business units in aligning their community

(cid:3) Initiate a plan to develop the additional internal capacity and competencies to

efforts with the new theme.

manage these programs.

(cid:3) Launched or expanded major community initiatives in Angola, the United States and

(cid:3) Continue to explore mechanisms to monitor and measure the execution and impact

countries in Asia.

of these programs.

(cid:3) Achieved our highest efficiency levels ever, representing a 24 percent decrease in

(cid:3) Continue implementation of climate change strategy, focusing on reducing

energy consumption per unit of output since 1992.

emissions of GHGs and increasing energy efficiency.

(cid:3) Continued implementation of our climate change strategy. Completed third-party
verification of our GHG emissions system and established first emissions goal 
for 2004.

(cid:3) Met our 2004 GHG emissions goal and established our 2005 goal.
(cid:3) Incorporated the analysis of the cost of carbon into our major capital projects.

(cid:3) Develop a long-term GHG emissions forecast based on our portfolio and business

strategy. We intend to use that forecast to develop a longer-term emissions
management plan that aligns with our fourfold climate change strategy. 

(cid:3) Comply with the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; explore development

of projects under the Clean Development Mechanism. 

9

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 10

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

The Chevron Way, available on our Web site at www.chevron.com/about/, guides the
management of our company, articulating our core values and vision. It also describes 
how we drive performance toward our vision.

(cid:3) Business plans are aligned with the

corporate strategic direction.

(cid:3) The same basic process is used for all

reporting units.

(cid:3) The accountability to meet agreed-upon

objectives is clearly understood.

Each year, the Board of Directors revisits our
corporate aspirations and affirms or adjusts
the company’s strategic direction based 
on the Strategy and Planning Committee’s
thorough review of the external environment
and our internal capabilities. Our reporting
units, their strategic business units and major
operating companies review and update 
their strategies to ensure alignment with the
corporate direction. Each business unit then
prepares a three-year business plan aligned
with their strategies. All business plans
include a section on Operational Excellence
Management System implementation plans
and milestones.

The Strategic and Business Planning Process
includes a framework to support assessing
management performance accountability.
From the full set of metrics routinely tracked,
a critical few “accountable metrics” covering
key corporate strategic priorities are defined
and targets mutually set by the reporting unit
and the corporation. Along with key financial
metrics, all business units are measured
against targeted health, environment and
safety metrics.

Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS)
Chevron developed our OEMS system to
ensure a consistent approach to managing
safety, health, the environment, reliability
and efficiency to achieve world-class
performance. OEMS is comprised of three
major parts:

(cid:3) Leadership Accountability
(cid:3) Management Systems Process
(cid:3) Operational Excellence Expectations

OEMS clearly defines requirements in each 
of these areas. Operating unit management 
is responsible for putting processes and
practices in place to meet these expectations
(see page 12). To evaluate OEMS design and
effectiveness across the company, cross-
functional teams conduct thorough OE reviews
of each operating unit on a regular, three- to
five-year schedule. The teams evaluate 
how effectively the unit has designed and
implemented processes to meet the relevant
expectations. Review findings are submitted
to the unit reporting officer, after which the
unit has 60 days to submit action plans, 
as appropriate, to improve performance.
Action plans are reviewed annually with the
reporting officer until they are completed.
During 2004, we conducted 21 OE reviews 
and five focused reviews. This represents 
about 25 percent of our operating units.

In 2004, we took several significant steps to
strengthen OEMS.

Leadership Accountability
The success of OEMS depends on effective,
engaged, committed and knowledgeable
leaders. In 2004, we launched a training
program focused on leaders’ roles and
responsibilities in OEMS implementation. 
All members of the Chevron Management
Committee and their direct management
reports participated in Operational
Excellence Leadership Roles and Behavior
Training sessions. To continue leadership
training throughout the organization, we
certified selected Chevron employees as
coaches. These coaches are conducting
sessions for line managers, supervisors and
other key operations personnel throughout
the company. Overall, more than 1,800 key
managers were trained in the 170 sessions
held in 2004. The importance of leadership 
in safety performance was confirmed recently
by an analysis of our Global Employee Survey
results (see page 12).

Corporate Governance
Sound corporate governance is fundamental
to how we operate our company and a 
critical part of corporate responsibility. 
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and structures, described in detail on our
Web site at www.chevron.com/corporate_
governance, provide a strong foundation 
for responsiveness and accountability. For
example, all of our directors are independent,
as defined by the New York Stock Exchange,
except for the chairman, who also serves 
as CEO, and the vice chairman, who is an
employee director. Governance of corporate
responsibility performance is integrated into
structures and processes at the highest levels
of Chevron (see chart opposite).

In 2004, the board appointed an independent,
lead director, Carla A. Hills, to chair the
executive sessions of nonemployee and
independent directors, and consult with the
chairman on agendas for board meetings and
other matters pertinent to the corporation
and the board. We continued to implement
globally the requirements of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act and began a review and update 
of our Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics
Code (see Business Ethics section, page 28).

Management Systems Approach
Chevron uses a management systems
approach to establish strategic direction,
assess progress toward our goals, ensure
operational excellence, and measure and
evaluate employee performance. Key among
these are the Strategic and Business Planning
Process, which aligns actions at all levels of
the company to common objectives, and the
Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS), used to manage essential aspects of
our operations.

Strategic and Business Planning Process
Our Strategic and Business Planning Process
is designed to ensure that:

(cid:3) The strategic direction for the company 

is discussed and agreed to before tactical
business plans are developed.

10

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 11

Chevron Chairman Dave O’Reilly
(center) and the Board of Directors
visit operations at the Sanha
deepwater platform in Angola. 

Chevron Corporate Governance

Guidance

Chevron Vision 
To be the global energy
company most admired
for its people, partnership
and performance.

The Chevron Way 
Explains who we are, what we do, what we believe and
what we plan to accomplish.

Business Conduct and Ethics Code 
How the company conducts day-to-day 
business activities according to the principles 
of The Chevron Way.

Board Level

Governance Framework

Board of Directors1

Board Committees All independent1 directors

Corporate Governance
Guidelines

Committee Charters

Bylaws

Certificate of
Incorporation

Chairman: David J. O’Reilly, CEO, Chevron
Vice Chairman: Peter J. Robertson, Chevron

Public Policy2

Audit

Samuel H. Armacost, Robert E. Denham, 
Robert J. Eaton, Sam Ginn, Carla A. Hills,
Franklyn G. Jenifer, Sam Nunn, Charles R. Shoemate,
Ronald D. Sugar, Carl Ware

Nominating and Governance

Management Compensation

Executive
Management

Executive 
Committee

Corporate Compliance
Policy Committee

Human Resources
Committee

Global Issues 
Committee2

Strategy and
Planning Committee

Management
Committee

Key Management 
Systems

Strategic and Business Planning Process

Operational Excellence Management System

1 Current Board of Directors as of June 2005. Other than the chairman and vice chairman, 
all directors are independent as defined by the New York Stock Exchange. 
One woman and two non-Caucasians serve on our board.
2 Primary responsibility for oversight of corporate responsibility strategy and performance.

Training and Certification
To further develop OEMS fluency across the
company, all leaders – including top executives
and line management with key operational
responsibilities – will be expected to
successfully complete four computer-based
training modules to attain OE certification. 
A higher level of certification – called Supreme
certification – is being developed for key
leaders and people involved in implementing
OEMS throughout Chevron.

Standardizing Processes
During 2004, Chevron operating companies
focused efforts on increasing standardization
of OEMS implementation throughout their
operations. For example, our International
Upstream unit developed and deployed a
standardized incident investigation and
reporting process and initiated work on an
environmental, social and health impact
assessment process. Our Health, Environment

and Safety organization’s Knowledge
Management network helps operating units
share successful practices and address
specific issues around effective 
OE implementation.

OEMS External Assessment
In 2004, we initiated an assessment to
determine that our OEMS is aligned with 
and meets the intent of internationally
recognized management system criteria 
(ISO 14001 for the environment and 
OHSAS 18001 for health and safety).  

Management of Corporate Responsibility
The Chevron Way provides a strong
foundation for corporate responsibility. 
Our overarching objective is to develop a
more systematic approach to integrate the
corporate responsibility issues we have
identified into our existing systems, processes
and decision making.

Based on a review of our policies and practices,
we determined that developing Corporate
Responsibility (CR) Expectations was a key
tactic in helping us meet that objective. 
The draft CR Expectations, previously termed
Guiding Principles in our 2002 report, are
based on and support the OE Expectations.
They are intended to articulate the company’s
vision of corporate responsibility and provide
operational guidance.

In addition to the CR Expectations, we have
developed a variety of materials to support
their implementation. We know that getting
input from a range of employees who address
corporate responsibility issues every day will
be essential for the long-term success and
impact of our efforts. As a result, we elected
to conduct initial training in 2005 in a sample
of our business units to get employee
feedback on the CR Expectations.

11

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 12

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

At the Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan,
a plant worker travels by bicycle
to inspect facilities. From March
2004 to June 2005 (latest
statistic available at printing),
Tengizchevroil employees had
logged more than 8 million work
hours without a safety incident. 

Operational Excellence Operating Elements   
Our Operational Excellence Management
System defines requirements in the following
13 operating elements:

1

2

3

4

5

6

Security of personnel and assets
Provide a secure environment in which
business operations may be successfully
conducted. 
Facilities design and construction
Design and construct facilities to prevent
injury, illness and incidents and to operate
reliably, efficiently and in an
environmentally sound manner.
Safe operations
Operate and maintain facilities to prevent
injuries, illness and incidents. 
Management of change
Manage both permanent and temporary
changes to prevent incidents. 
Reliability and efficiency
Reliability: Operate and maintain facilities 
to sustain mechanical integrity and
prevent incidents. 
Efficiency: Maximize efficiency of 
operations and conserve natural
resources. 
Third-party services
Systematically address and manage
contractor conformance to operational
excellence. 

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

Environmental stewardship
Strive to continually improve
environmental performance and reduce
impacts from our operations. 
Product stewardship
Manage potential risks of our products
throughout the products’ life cycles. 
Incident investigation
Investigate and identify root causes of
incidents to reduce or eliminate systemic
causes to prevent future incidents. 
Community awareness and outreach
Reach out to the community and engage
in open dialogue to build trust. 
Emergency management
Prevention is the first priority, but be
prepared for an emergency and mitigate
any incident quickly and effectively. 
Compliance assurance
Verify conformance with company policy
and government regulations. Ensure that
employees and contractors understand 
their safety, health and environmental
responsibilities.
Legislative and regulatory advocacy
Work ethically and constructively to
influence proposed laws and regulations,
and debate on emerging issues. 

Correlation of Days Away From Work in 2004 
to Employee Views of Leadership Safety Behaviors
Workforce Days Away From Work Rate (per 200,000 work hours)

Supervisors demonstrate 
concern for safety

0.04

Shutdowns are supported 
and recognized

Organization acts  
responsibly in  
environment

Corrective action  
is taken

Organization acts  
responsibly in community 

Adequate safety training 
provided

0.05

0.05

0.05

0.09

0.10

0.40

0.39

0.39

0.39

0.34

0.34

Responses to six factors from Chevron’s 2004 Global Employee Survey – in which employees
rated their leadership with (cid:3) low favorability or (cid:3) high favorability – correlated to their unit’s
Days Away From Work Rate.

12

Strong Leaders Create Safe Workplaces
Good safety performance relies on
committed and involved leadership. 
In 2004, we undertook a study to identify
the workplace factors that led to excellence
in safety performance.

We analyzed the correlation of actual
safety performance to leadership behavior
through a series of questions posed in our
Global Employee Survey. The questions
focused on demonstrated leadership and
supervisory skills; commitment to safety,
health and the environment; and
commitment to the work environment. 

We found that units in which employees
rated their leaders most favorably had
significantly better safety performance
than the units with low ratings. A series 
of questions in the “protecting people
and the environment” category showed
the strongest correlation; the workforce
Days Away From Work Rate was up to 
10 times higher for operating units with 
low favorability than for those with high
favorability. Within this category, having
supervisors who demonstrated care and
concern for the safety of their employees
was the greatest differentiator in safety
performance (see chart at left). Additionally,
we found that environments in which
leaders had strong supervisory skills and 
a proactive concern for a respectful work
environment showed a reduced number of
safety incidents.

These findings reinforce the value of our
initiatives in 2004 to engage Chevron
leaders more fully in implementing 
our Operational Excellence Management
System and building fluency through 
Operational Excellence certification. 

Additionally, the findings have been
integrated into our leadership and safety
training curricula and broadly shared
internally. Results from individual operating
units have been shared with their respective
management for integration into individual
performance assessments, as appropriate.

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 13

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION

Since 1996, we have supported the Chevron Management Institute, a unique
management training program designed to build capabilities among leaders of
nonprofit organizations. The program is organized in partnership with the Leader 
to Leader Institute. In 2004, the institute included for the first time participants
outside the United States. Participants were nominated by Chevron business units 
in Venezuela, Colombia, Nigeria and Angola. An international group of 24 attended
the leadership workshop held at Chevron’s headquarters in California. At right,
instructor Nadir Muwwakkil, president of Vision Group International, at the 2004
Chevron Management Institute.

We define our stakeholders as those who affect, are affected by or have a legitimate
interest in our company’s performance. Our stakeholders include the groups described
below. We view stakeholder consultation as essential to our business. We engage with
stakeholders through a wide variety of approaches at both the corporate and local levels.

Stakeholder

Profile

Stockholders

Approximately 2 billion shares outstanding (as of December 31, 2004)
(cid:3) 62 percent owned by institutional investors and mutual funds
(cid:3) 38 percent owned by other investors

Employees

47,265 employees (as of December 31, 2004)

Business partners

(cid:3) Approximately $20 billion spent globally on supplier goods and services in 2004
(cid:3) Other national and multinational energy companies

Host governments

Governments in approximately 180 countries where we operate

Customers

Commodity markets, wholesale and retail customers

Local communities

Thousands of communities in which our facilities are located globally

Civil-society
organizations

Business forums, multilateral institutions, philanthropic foundations, academic institutions, think tanks, faith-based groups, 
and nongovernmental and development organizations 

We use both formal and informal approaches
to stakeholder engagement. Some are
systematic and ongoing, while others are 
ad hoc on specific issues. Existing business
processes also integrate stakeholder
consultation, for example:

(cid:3) We have embedded stakeholder

engagement in our Chevron Project
Development and Execution Process, a
disciplined project management method
we use to ensure we make sound capital
investments and execute them well. 
As part of the process, teams are required
to engage with and get input from the
stakeholders who will be most affected by
the project or activity. We also apply the
principles of this process to other types 
of efforts, which range from designing
community development programs to
reviewing our environmental strategy.

(cid:3) Our International Upstream unit is
developing a standard process for
conducting environmental, social and
health impact assessments within its
operations. The unit is including a
procedure that provides project teams 
with guidance on how to effectively and
proactively identify, engage with and
respond to stakeholders affected by 
their projects.

We consult with a variety of civil-society
organizations to share information and
exchange views, to better understand their
perspectives, and to gain insight into
emerging issues. In recent years, we also
have taken steps at the corporate level to
increase our engagement with the socially
responsible investment community and 
other Chevron stockholders who have 
an interest in the company’s corporate
responsibility activities. 

In 2004, stockholders filed proposals with 
the company on climate change, human
rights, biodiversity, animal testing, ongoing
litigation in Ecuador and HIV/AIDS. Following
constructive dialogue, the filers agreed to
withdraw the proposals on climate change,
human rights and HIV/AIDS. We believe this
outcome reflects recognition of our progress
in these areas as well as the mutual value of
engagement and information sharing. 

We also participate in energy industry
associations and other organizations, such 
as the World Business Council on Sustainable
Development and Business for Social
Responsibility, that bring together companies
and other groups to address issues of
common interest.

Moving forward, we are continuing to 
develop a more systematic approach to
stakeholder consultation at the corporate
level. In addition, we plan to develop tools
that will encourage a more consistent
approach, where appropriate, across
our business. Business units also will
continue their engagement using the most
effective and appropriate mechanisms for
their locations.

Our engagement with stakeholders described
in more detail elsewhere in this report includes:

(cid:3) Global Employee Surveys (page 20)
(cid:3) Voluntary Principles on Security and

Human Rights (page 26)

(cid:3) Supplier Development Forums (page 30)
(cid:3) Angola Partnership Initiative (page 33)
(cid:3) Extractive Industries Transparency

Initiative (page 37)

(cid:3) World Bank’s Global Gas Flaring Reduction

Public-Private Partnership (page 56)

(cid:3) Energy and Biodiversity Initiative (page 58)

13

211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 14

SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES 

SOCIOECONOMIC

14

211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 15

Left LL-652 Field, Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela.
Below Our support for education in Nigeria
includes funding for the Pacelli School for the
Blind in Lagos.

Chevron’s operations affect and are affected by a broad range of social and economic
issues, such as employee relations, human rights, global supplier development and 
how we participate in the political process.

The company has a wide range of policies, processes and systems to help us address 
the diversity of socioeconomic issues we face. This section provides an overview of 
how we are approaching the social and economic issues we have determined are most
relevant to our business.

15

211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 16

SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES OVERVIEW

This diagram provides an overview of Chevron’s core business activities and the key
socioeconomic contributions the company can make at each stage. Additionally, it
highlights the challenges the company faces – those associated with our operations, 
as well as broader societal issues that characterize our operating environment. 

Chevron Operations

S
S
E
C
O
R
P

E
G
A
T
S

Design and 
Construction

UPSTREAM

Oil and Natural Gas 
Exploration and Production

MIDSTREAM
Oil and Natural Gas
Transportation

DOWNSTREAM

Refining and
Regasification

I

S
N
O
I
T
U
B
R
T
N
O
C
Y
E
K

S
E
G
N
E
L
L
A
H
C
Y
E
K

Sourcing
Infrastructure
Job Creation

Training and Development
Human Rights

Community Investment 

and Partnerships

Technology

Taxes and Royalties
Sourcing
Infrastructure
Revenue Transparency
Job Creation

Training and Development
Human Rights

Community Investment

and Partnerships

Technology

Job Creation

Training and Development

Taxes and Royalties
Sourcing
Job Creation

Training and Development
Human Rights

Community Investment

and Partnerships

Technology

Chevron is committed to upholding our values, conducting business with the highest ethical standards, and fully complying with the spirit and letter of the law.

Health and Safety
Employment Reductions

Demographic Shifts
Indigenous Communities 
and Cultural Heritage 

Land Acquisition 
Community Health
Zones of Conflict

Weak Governance Systems

Health and Safety

Land Acquisition
Community Health

Health and Safety

Demographic Shifts
Community Impacts
Indigenous Communities 
and Cultural Heritage

Land Acquisition
Community Health
Zones of Conflict

Health and Safety

Community Impacts
Community Health

KEY CONTRIBUTIONS

ENERGY AND PRODUCTS

Providing Energy For a wide variety of uses and
products, such as home heating, power generation,
transportation, plastics and lubricants.

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Taxes and Royalties Payments to governments.

Sourcing Payments to local, national and
international contractors and suppliers. Dedicated
efforts to source from and help develop small and
locally owned businesses.

Revenue Transparency Promoting transparency
and good governance in the management of oil and
gas revenues.

Job Creation Providing employment, wages,
benefits. Focus on hiring and training employees
from the communities and countries in which we
operate.

COMMUNITY

Community Investment and Partnerships
Monetary and in-kind contributions, partnerships
and programs to support social and economic
development where we operate.

TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER

EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS

Technology Sharing technology and know-how with
our business partners.

Training and Development Providing employees
and contractors with training and other
opportunities to develop skills.

Infrastructure Contributions to local and national
physical infrastructure.

Human Rights Supporting universal human rights,
consistent with the role of business.

16

 
 
211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 17

The issues listed in the diagram and at each stage are not exhaustive. Rather, we have
sought to identify the contributions and challenges most significant at each stage
throughout the life cycle of our operations.

Transportation

Storage

Markets/End Use

Decommissioning 
and Remediation

Job Creation

Job Creation

Training and Development

Training and Development

Plastics

Wax

Lubricants

Electricity

Technology

FUELS

Domestic
Automotive
Aviation
Agricultural
Rail
Nautical
Industrial

Providing Energy

Taxes and Royalties
Job Creation

Training and Development

Community Investment

and Partnerships

Job Creation

Training and Development

We use a variety of processes and systems to ensure compliance with our ethical policies and guidelines and accountability for violations.

Health and Safety

Land Acquisition
Community Health

Health and Safety

Health and Safety

Government Revenue
Reductions

Health and Safety
Employment Reductions

Demographic Shifts

KEY CHALLENGES

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

COMMUNITY

Weak Governance Systems Operating in
environments that lack sound governance systems
and where the rule of law is weak.

Government Revenue Reductions Following
closure of operations.

EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS

Health and Safety Protecting the health and safety 
of those working on our behalf or affected by our 
operations.

Employment Reductions Following completion of
construction phase or closure of operations.

Demographic Shifts Population migrations and 
attendant community and economic impacts.

Community Impacts Effects of oil and gas
development on the social, political and economic
fabric of local communities.

Indigenous Communities and Cultural Heritage
Respecting the rights, traditions, livelihoods and 
cultural attributes of indigenous and other local 
communities.

Land Acquisition Process and effects of acquiring
land for operations, including potential
resettlement.

Community Health Effects of new or existing
health issues, particularly HIV/AIDS, on workforce
and local communities.

Zones of Conflict Operating in regions affected 
by conflict.

17

211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 18

EMPLOYEES

Saudi Arabian Texaco Human
Resources staff at Mina Saud
camp in the Partitioned Neutral
Zone between Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait review a monthly benefits
verification report. From left are
Hussein Al-Shammari, Madhi 
Al-Ghobari and Joe La Presta. 

Chevron is a company of more than 47,000 people worldwide. Our success is 
intrinsically linked to the capabilities, performance, diversity and engagement 
of our employees.  

Geographic Breakdown of Chevron 
Employees (2004)

North America
45%

Asia-Pacific
23%

Africa
15%

Europe/
Middle East
10%

South America
7%

At the end of 2004, Chevron had 47,265 employees
worldwide, which represents a 6.5 percent decrease in
staffing from the previous year. The staff reductions were
due to reorganizations in some of our operating units and
various asset sales. Approximately 18.9 percent of our U.S.
workforce is represented by unions.

Our Global People Strategy is designed to
help ensure we create a workforce with the
collective organizational capability to achieve
and sustain industry-leading performance. 

In 2004, we reviewed the People Strategy to
ensure that it appropriately addresses the
evolving workforce needs of our business 
and continues to be aligned with the strategic
business plan. As a result, we will begin to
adjust our global recruiting processes in 2005
and conduct an assessment to help us project
our staffing requirements for the next decade
and beyond.

Training and Development
Providing our employees with meaningful 
and relevant training and development
opportunities helps ensure that Chevron 
will continue to have the organizational
capabilities necessary to meet our future
business needs. We have numerous programs
that help us attract and retain the best
people, ensure that employees are positioned 

to achieve their goals and grow their careers,
and close specific competency gaps within
the organization.

Most of our programs are developed and
conducted at the operating company or
business unit level. They are tailored to meet
our overall objectives as well as the specific
needs of local workforces. These include
efforts to:

(cid:3) Supplement on-the-job training for 

new hires.

(cid:3) Enhance employees’ skills and technical

and functional expertise.

(cid:3) Expand employees’ knowledge of the
company’s global and multifaceted
operations.

(cid:3) Increase employees’ appreciation of being

part of a global, diverse workforce.
(cid:3) Cultivate high-potential candidates for

future opportunities.

Recognizing the importance of strong,
effective leaders, Chevron has several
designated programs to develop managers.
For example:

(cid:3) The Chevron Leadership Forum – geared
for our high-potential managers working
throughout our global operations, this
program seeks to increase the participants’
knowledge of the company’s global
strategies and objectives. In 2004,
205 managers participated in the forum.

(cid:3) The Chevron Advanced Management

Program – a three-week course that includes
an on-site development assignment within
the company’s global operations. In 2004,
38 managers completed the program.
(cid:3) New supervisor program – a course for

first-time supervisors. In 2004, 652 people
completed the course. 

Training New Dealers
Chevron’s Marketing group provides
training for retailers joining the Chevron-
branded network through its New Dealer
Business Orientation. The program is an
intensive two-week immersion in retail-
outlet management held at the company’s
headquarters in San Ramon, California. 
The training is required for all new retailers
in the United States who manage company-
owned stations or contract directly with
Chevron for their fuel supply. 

In the past 10 years, more than 1,200 
new retailers have received their initial
orientation to the Chevron brand from 
this program and have been taught how 
to effectively manage fueling facilities 
and convenience stores. Training is face 
to face as well as technology-based. 
A unique aspect of the on-site classroom 
in San Ramon is a mock-up station, with 
a convenience store, pump island and 
quick-serve restaurant. 

Retailer training in a variety of forms 
exists throughout Chevron for Caltex- 
and Texaco-branded stations as well. 
The courses encompass a mixture of
location and classroom training on such
subjects as customer service, health and
safety practices, and accounting and
payroll management. Virtual-classroom
software links people in different locations
to facilitate best-practice sharing.

18

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 19

Trainer Maxot Kymapob prepares to
demonstrate argon welding to Aselbek
Mukhametzhanov at Tengizchevroil’s Craft
Training Center in Atyrau, Kazakhstan.
Construction at the Sour Gas Injection/
Second Generation Project at the Tengiz
Field is creating thousands of new jobs for
Kazakh nationals.

Chevron provides training opportunities
throughout employees’ careers.
Asset planning supervisor Elizabeth
Schwarze holds courses for subsurface
professionals. She and colleagues,
geologists David Larue (left) and Greg
Smith, view a 3-D temperature model
of California’s Kern River Field.

Chevron Horizons Program
Horizons is a five-year, developmental
technical-training program that
supplements new hires’ on-the-job
experiences. Through courses and field
training, participants attain cross-
functional competencies in facilities
engineering, petroleum engineering,
earth science, drilling and information
technology. Employees in Horizons are
expected to take up to three different
assignments, which may include relocation,
over the program’s five-year duration.
In 2004, 400 employees participated in 
the program in the United States.

Based on its effectiveness, Horizons was
expanded in 2004 and 2005 to several
Chevron locations outside the United
States, such as Venezuela, Thailand,
Australia, Indonesia and the United Kingdom.

Cultivating High-Potential Recruits
To sustain and advance the company’s
position as a market leader, Chevron’s
Global Marketing group boosted its efforts
to recruit and develop high-potential
employees through several new internship
programs in 2004.

The L.T. Jordan Internship and the Living-
Abroad Programs, created through a
partnership with Texas A&M University,
introduce interns to customs, societies 
and work environments outside the United
States. In 2004, seven interns took part. 

The Gateways Global Internship Program 
is open to students around the world who
are placed in work assignments within and
outside their home countries. The program
hosted 26 interns in 2004, including
students from Nigeria, Spain, Guatemala,
South Africa, the Philippines and the 
United States.

To help successful interns make the
transition into permanent positions, Global
Marketing added the Futures Development
Program, which provides new hires with 
a two-year development track to enhance
their skills and experience. The first
program participant was hired in 2004.

Another priority of the Global Marketing
group is to help fill the talent pipeline by
enhancing the capabilities of future leaders.
Employees selected for the newly created
International Marketing Fellows Program
spend two weeks on a development
assignment outside their home country, 
then three days with global leaders in a
facilitated dialogue forum. 

19

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 20

EMPLOYEES

Workplace Environment
Chevron is committed to creating a workplace
environment in which our employees are
recognized and valued for their contributions
and treated with dignity and respect. To foster
this kind of environment, we have several
communication channels open to employees
to provide feedback, raise issues or concerns,
and resolve conflicts. These include:

(cid:3) Chevron Ombudsperson – provides

employees with neutral, confidential
support and problem-solving assistance.

(cid:3) Steps to Employee Problem Solution – 
a program that offers a safe, fast and
alternative way to resolve disputes.
(cid:3) Chevron Hotline – a 24-hour resource 

to confidentially or anonymously report
issues or share concerns. It includes
translation services for individuals not
fluent in English. In 2004, the hotline was
accessed 185 times (more information on
the hotline is available on page 28).

(cid:3) Pulse Surveys – a measure used periodically
to gain feedback from a sample or subset
of employees on particular topics.
(cid:3) Global Employee Surveys – a periodic 

effort to get comprehensive feedback from
our employees.

Chevron recognizes and respects employees’
right to join associations or choose union
representation. Where employees choose
union representation or where it is required
by law, the company will attempt to establish
a positive, cooperative business relationship
with the authorized representative of choice.

2004 Global Employee Survey
In our first global survey since the merger of
Chevron and Texaco, we asked our employees
to share their opinions on a range of topics
identified as the drivers most likely to affect
employee engagement, meaning they are
emotionally and intellectually committed to
the company’s success.

An independent, third party analyzed the
results of the global survey conducted in 
May 2004. It found that Chevron was on par
or above average in five of the nine categories
compared with high-performing companies in
all industries. We outscored our industry peers
in all categories. The survey was completed
by 67 percent of our employees globally. 
We intend to conduct the Global Employee
Survey approximately every two years.

20

Corporate Human Resources’
Intercultural Development group
helps prepare employees for
international assignments. Before
leaving for Seoul, employee Billy
Leal, his wife, Nancy, and their
daughter, Leah, attend a cultural
orientation session in which fellow
employees share their experiences
of having lived and worked in Korea.

Fostering an Inclusive Workplace
As stated in The Chevron Way, diversity 
is one of our core values. We reflect those
values in our commitment to foster an
inclusive workplace in which individual
differences, varied perspectives and unique
talents are respected and embraced. 

Chevron’s employment policy states that 
in any aspect of employment, no individual
will be discriminated against based on 
race, religion, color, national origin, age, 
sex, gender identity, disability, status as a
disabled veteran, political preference, sexual
orientation, membership or nonmembership
in any lawful organization, or other basis
prohibited by local laws or regulations. 
The company uniformly enforces all
nondiscrimination and anti-harassment laws
applicable to the workplace, and we apply 
our own policies in jurisdictions where such
protections do not exist. Chevron requires 
all U.S. employees to take anti-harassment
training and does not tolerate retaliation
against employees who exercise their rights
under existing anti-discrimination laws.

We are committed to increasing the
representation of women and non-Caucasian
males in senior-level positions corporatewide.
At the end of 2004, women represented
approximately 21 percent of our total global
workforce. At mid-level and above, women
represented 9.9 percent of employees. 
At the senior executive level, women and
non-Caucasian males held approximately
20.8 percent of the positions at the end 
of 2004, up from 19.5 percent in 2003. 

Developing a Global Workforce
To succeed in diverse operating
environments, we need a skilled global
workforce that represents the communities 
in which we operate and the markets we
serve. Our commitment to hire locally and
develop our workforce also contributes to
local economic growth and helps build the
long-term capacity of our host countries. 
At the end of 2004, approximately 
97 percent of Chevron’s employees were
working within their home countries. 
Outside the United States, approximately 
48 percent of senior-level positions were 
held by employees working within their
home countries. 

While we consistently emphasize an inclusive
and diverse workplace, the nature and
definition of diversity varies, reflecting the
unique cultures and people in the many
locations in which we operate. Therefore,
many business units have their own diversity
councils and other programs focused on their
particular priorities and challenges. Following
are a few examples.

Australia Chevron’s Upstream business unit
in Australia is focusing on increasing the
representation of women at all levels of its
operations. In 2004, women accounted for 
29 percent of all employees but only 7 percent
of executive leadership positions. As a result,
the unit reviewed its hiring practices and took
steps to ensure it had a more inclusive and
transparent selection process. This included
having more women serve on hiring selection
teams. Additionally, the unit improved its
parental-leave policy by expanding its
maternity-leave benefits, developing the Keep
in Touch Program for women on leave, and
offering more flexibility for women returning
to work from maternity leave.

Nigeria While more than 90 percent of
Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) employees
were Nigerian citizens in 2004, they
represented a diversity of cultures, ethnicities
and tribes as well as expatriates from other
countries. CNL’s Diversity Council has sought
to break down some of the language and
cultural barriers among its employees. 
The program Learn a Nigerian Language,
open to all employees, was launched at 
CNL’s facility in Lekki in 2004 and drew
approximately 100 employees interested in
the Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa ethnic languages.
CNL also hosted Diversity Day celebrations 
at several company locations.

CNL continues to focus on hiring and
developing the skills of Nigerian citizens
while cultivating a more inclusive work
environment. CNL’s strategies include
incorporating diversity metrics in its
candidate slates and selection teams,
requiring employees to develop personal
diversity action plans, ensuring diversity 
is represented in future succession plans, 
and providing development assignments to
employees. Broad diversity metrics include
gender, tribe and state of origin.

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 21

In Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela,
company civil engineer Luisana
Ramos and geologist Milton Mendez
work on the Plataforma Deltana
Blocks 2 and 3 project.

When asked to rate their level of agreement on a range of statements about the company, employees
indicated the highest percentage of agreement on the following statements:

(cid:3) I think Chevron acts responsibly in relation to the environment (89 percent)

(cid:3) I believe strongly in the goals and objectives of Chevron (87 percent)

(cid:3) I am proud to be a part of Chevron (87 percent)

(cid:3) I think Chevron acts responsibly in the society/community in which we operate (86 percent)

(cid:3) The people I work with are willing to help each other, even if it means doing something outside their 

usual activities (86 percent)

(cid:3) I am treated with dignity and respect (82 percent)

(cid:3) Chevron is a company that cares about the health and well-being of employees (80 percent)

Thailand Chevron’s Asia South business 
unit also faces the challenge of fostering
appreciation for the cultural diversity of its
employees. In Thailand, the Diversity Council
conducted a “cultural audit” to better
understand its particular issues and prioritize
the goals of its diversity initiatives. Based on
the findings, the unit launched a new diversity
awareness program in 2004 that included 
a two-day intensive cross-cultural workshop.
More than 90 percent of the employees in
the unit attended the workshop or another
similar program. 

United States In the United States, we 
have several strategies to meet our goal of
developing a diverse workforce. In the United
States as required by law, Chevron collects
and submits data annually on our U.S.-based
workforce to the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (see chart below).

Overall recruitment for full-time positions
was down in 2004. However, of those we
hired in the United States in 2004, 35 percent
were minorities and 37 percent were women.
We increased recruitment of interns in 2004,
of whom 40 percent were minorities and 
39 percent were women.  

In 2004, to further our goal of increasing
representation of minorities and women, we
specifically focused on engaging with outside
organizations that helped us broaden our
slate of minority candidates. This included
partnering with the INROADS scholarship and
internship program, and recruiting at several
historically minority colleges and universities.
Additionally, we require employees to develop
one or more agreements in personal diversity
action plans focused on enhancing their
awareness of and demonstrating their
commitment to diversity. 

Equal Employment Opportunity (2004)
Percent of Chevron U.S. workforce

Minorities among 
total employees

Women among 
total employees

Minorities among 
officials and managers

Women among 
officials and managers

Minorities among 
professionals

Women among 
professionals

34.4

28.2

23.2

23.0

24.4

30.7

Employee Networks
One of the ways Chevron supports diversity
and inclusion in the workplace is through
employee networks. These are groups of
employees focused on specific dimensions
of diversity. We now have networks for Asian,
African-American, Filipino-American, lesbian
and gay, Hispanic, women, Native American,
the disabled, and young employees.

Chevron Women’s Network, for example,
was established five years ago in the
United States. Today, it has more than
1,000 members in 17 countries. Two new
groups have recently joined this network. 

In the Africa-Pakistan region, a Women’s
Network was launched in September 2004
and already boasts a membership of nearly
200 – 14 of them men. The group has
adopted the moniker “OYA,” for the African
goddess of trade, business and prosperity.
“The word is difficult to translate but, in
essence, refers to the strength of women
and how we interact and balance all
elements of our lives,” comments Delight
Chandler, the chairwoman for the Caltex
South and Central Africa network.

Chandler’s goals for OYA are specific to 
her region. She hopes to encourage women
by providing a platform for them to get 
the support they need to succeed in the
workplace. Working in tandem with Human
Resources, Chandler hopes to introduce an
employee mentoring program specifically
tailored to women.

The Asia-Pacific Women’s Network also is
under development, with launch targeted
for late 2005. The goal is to embrace the
spirit of the other Chevron women’s
networks while reflecting the range of
cultures and issues across the diverse 
Asia-Pacific region.

21

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 22

HEALTH AND SAFETY

The health and safety of people who work on our behalf or are affected by our operations
is our highest priority. We want all employees and contractors to arrive home safe at the
end of their work day. Regrettably, in 2004, 15 contractors and two employees died while
working on behalf of Chevron. We are committed to striving to reduce fatalities – and all
incidents – to zero. 

Driving Improved Performance
We manage health and safety performance
through our Operational Excellence
Management System (OEMS). OEMS spells
out a range of detailed expectations for our
business units’ health and safety processes.
We believe that improving fluency in our
OEMS (described on page 10) and building 
a safety culture will lead to continuous
improvement in our safety performance.

Due to the nature of our industry, we often
rely on contractors to provide specialized 

expertise or perform work of limited duration
such as construction. We have the same
health and safety expectations for contractors
as for our own employees, and we track our
performance for both.

As part of OEMS, all safety incidents are
investigated to determine the root causes
and steps needed to prevent recurrence.
Learning is broadly shared to encourage
prevention. Chevron’s chairman, with the
head of the relevant operating company,
personally reviews all employee and 

contractor fatalities, including the
circumstances surrounding the fatality and
the follow-up actions taken.

Performance
As measured by our Total Recordable Incident
Rate (TRIR), 2004 was our safest year on
record, reflected in six straight years of
improvement. Over the five-year period, our
TRIR improved 65 percent (see charts below).

Total Recordable Incident Rate
Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hours

Days Away From Work Rate
Days away per 200,000 work hours

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2.00

1.75

1.50

1.25

1.00

0.75

0.50

0.25

0

0.45

0.40

0.35

0.30

0.25

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

Chevron 
Employees

Chevron 
Contractors

Employee 
Benchmark

Contractor 
Benchmark

1.04

0.82

0.72

0.68

0.60

0.46

1.80

1.08

0.88

0.74

0.59

0.53

1.32

1.04

0.93

0.90

0.84

0.66

1.40

1.22

0.90

0.84

0.76

0.73

Chevron 
Employees

Chevron 
Contractors

Employee 
Benchmark

Contractor 
Benchmark

0.38

0.39

0.34

0.25

0.25

0.21

0.27

0.20

0.26

0.25

0.18

0.16

0.40

0.34

0.22

0.23

0.22

0.19

0.31

0.28

0.21

0.21

0.17

0.19

American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks.

American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks.

22

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 23

A critical contribution to improved
performance has been the involvement of our
workforce. Hazard and operability studies,
pre-start-up safety reviews, behavior-based
programs, daily safety meetings, and ongoing
safety committees are just some of the ways
our employees and contractors have helped
improve performance. In addition, more 
than 2,000 employees and contractors are
involved in corporatewide health and safety
networks. Current networks include motor
vehicle safety, repetitive stress injury
prevention and contractor safety management.

These improvements have also been driven 
in part by our aggressive targets for key
safety indicators. In 2004, we met our 
target to reduce our overall workforce TRIR,

though we fell just short of reaching our
workforce Days Away From Work Rate target.
In 2004, 36 Chevron units received our Zero
Is Attainable Award. To earn the award, major
reporting units with at least 100 employees
had to achieve zero fatalities and zero
employee recordable incidents during the year. 

We continue to see dramatic reductions in
the number of repetitive stress injuries in 
our employee workforce since instituting our
risk assessment and intervention program in
2000. Our year-end repetitive stress injury
rate in 2004 was half that of 2003 and less
than a third of the rate in 2000.

The leading cause of fatalities at Chevron
remains motor vehicle crashes, accounting

for six fatalities in 2004. Since 2000, nearly
half of all employee and contractor fatalities
have been due to motor vehicle crashes. 

We are intensifying our focus on motor
vehicle safety in our operations through
programs such as Project Preserve, profiled
on page 25. To help address the issue of
general road safety in the communities in
which we do business, we are developing the
Arrive Alive Program. We will implement the
program in selected countries where we have
operations and face road safety challenges.
We will also seek locations where government
and nongovernmental organizations are
receptive to partnering with us. We expect to
have our first cooperative road safety initiative
under way in early 2006.

Lost-Time Incident Frequency
Incidents per million work hours

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2.50

2.00

1.50

1.00

0.50

0

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

Chevron 
Employees

Chevron 
Contractors

Employee 
Benchmark

Contractor
Benchmark

1.93

2.00

1.70

1.26

1.26

1.07

1.47

1.06

1.37

1.30

0.95

0.87

2.00

1.70

1.10

1.20

1.08

0.95

1.40

1.45

1.10

1.10

0.90

0.95

American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks.

23

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 24

HEALTH AND SAFETY

Chevron Canada Resources geophysicist Janis Rose stands in front of a low-
ground-impact seismic vibrator, which helps ensure our operations leave a
minimal environmental footprint in the Canadian Arctic. The Taktuk 3-D seismic
program in the 2003–2004 winter season was the first petroleum industry
seismic program in the Mackenzie Delta to achieve zero incidents. That safety
record was repeated in the 2004–2005 season.

Work-Related Fatalities
Number

Motor Vehicle Safety
Motor vehicle incidents per million miles driven (company vehicles)

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

25

20

15

10

5

0

4.00

3.00

2.00

1.00

0

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

Chevron 
Employees

Chevron 
Contractors

Total

4

20

24

4

14

18

2

21

23

1

15

16

0

12

12

2

15

17

Chevron
Employees

2.52

2.99

3.29

2.94

3.31

3.01

24

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 25

Chevron trains depot managers
in Nigeria as part of our Project
Preserve efforts to reduce the
number of road accidents. 

Working to Eliminate Truck Accidents in the
Africa-Pakistan Region
Following a series of fatal accidents, Chevron
launched a rigorous initiative to improve 
the safety of the company’s product 
delivery fleet in the Africa-Pakistan region.
The accidents included a head-on collision 
in Uganda that killed 40 people and an
incident in Nigeria that resulted in two
fatalities. Although the Chevron contract
drivers involved in the accidents were 
not deemed to be at fault, the company
nonetheless has taken action.

Chevron dispatched a five-person Project
Preserve team to Nigeria to help local field
operations improve truck and driver safety
standards. The team worked under the
direction of local management in Nigeria to

craft a program that could be implemented
on the spot and enforced to 100 percent
compliance. To achieve immediate results,
the team first focused on the basic mechanical
safety of the trucks. An important key to
success was developing a phased plan 
to implement Global Marketing’s truck
standards. For greatest impact, the first
objective was to implement the “critical few”
standards 100 percent of the time. In Nigeria,
these included items such as tire quality,
working lights and seat belts. When those
basics are met completely, additional safety
standards will be implemented.

This project received the strong support 
of senior management, who actively
communicated its importance to the 
entire organization. 

Enforcing the new standard – and not 
loading any truck that did not comply –
inevitably affected product deliveries, 
and management’s willingness to accept
nearly two weeks of business interruptions
sent a clear message that the Nigeria field
operations were serious about safety.

Since the program was launched in Nigeria 
in June 2004, no product delivery truck
fatalities have been reported. The program 
is now being implemented throughout 
the 22-country Africa-Pakistan region. 
“Our objective is nothing less than to
implement and enforce a ‘zero is attainable’
culture toward safety-related incidents in all
areas of our business,” says Bereket Haregot,
vice president of Africa-Pakistan Marketing.

25

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 26

HUMAN RIGHTS

Chevron’s support for human rights is one of the core values articulated in 
The Chevron Way. We respect human rights in the conduct of our global 
operations, consistent with the role of business.

Chevron has long addressed many of the
issues that fall under the umbrella of human
rights, such as employment practices,
nondiscrimination in employment, health 
and safety, and security of employees and
company facilities. We also are committed to
working with governments, business partners,
the communities in which we operate and
nongovernmental organizations to continue
to help contribute to an environment in which
human rights are respected.

We have always supported human rights
around the world, consistent with the
Universal Declaration on Human Rights, 
and we will continue to do so. Our support 
is clearly articulated in The Chevron Way.
While the ultimate responsibility for protecting
human rights rests with governments, 
we believe that we also have a role to 
play consistent with the role of business. 
Our existing policies and practices, support
for leading initiatives, and dialogue with
stakeholders are part of our commitment 
to this objective. 

As with other aspects of corporate
responsibility, helping our employees
understand what support for human rights
means in practice is an important priority. 
We have reviewed our policies, systems and 

practices and have consulted with employees
and experts. The first outcome of the review
was the preparation of a draft Human Rights
Statement. Grounded in The Chevron Way, we
believe the statement will provide guidance
to Chevron employees and act as a framework
for constructive dialogue, both internally 
and externally. We are consulting with select
business units to ensure that the statement 
will achieve the objectives we have laid out.
Based on the results of the consultation, we
intend to finalize the statement and
determine whether any additional tools or
training will be necessary to support our
efforts. Our aim is to finalize the statement
and materials and begin corporatewide
deployment in early 2006.

In addressing this issue, we also have drawn
upon leading initiatives that seek to support
human rights. We support the Voluntary
Principles on Security and Human Rights,
which we helped develop, and we actively
participate in a dialogue with other energy
companies, nongovernmental organizations
and governments that are involved in 
this effort. We communicate our security
expectations to host governments where 
we operate, our business partners, and the
private and public security forces with whom
we sometimes work.

Our Global Security group continues to include
the Voluntary Principles in its periodic formal
Security Management Reviews. Individual
Chevron business units are responsible for
implementing the Voluntary Principles in
accordance with local laws and conditions.
We also encourage the U.S. government to
engage with other countries in the importance
of upholding human rights and the rule of
law. In 2004, we adopted a new internal
guideline that supports the Voluntary
Principles. The guideline limits any support
we provide host country security or law
enforcement organizations to nonlethal
defense and logistics. 

In addition to the Voluntary Principles,
Chevron was one of the original endorsers of
the Global Sullivan Principles, which address
a wide range of human rights issues, from
equal opportunity to a safe and healthy
workplace. These initiatives are examples 
of how Chevron draws on multistakeholder
efforts to inform our policies and practices. 

26

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 27

HIV/AIDS

Dr. Tsola Kpiasi, medical director of
Chevron Nigeria Limited, helps in the
company’s HIV/AIDS effort. In Cabinda,
Angola, over a 10-year period ending in
2004, our AIDS programs, in cooperation
with the local government, helped reduce
HIV rates from 7 percent to 3 percent. 
In another Cabinda project, a company-
sponsored blood bank in the local
hospital reduced from 25 percent to 
1 percent the number of HIV cases
caused by transfusions of infected blood.

One of the greatest health threats the world faces today is the spread of HIV/AIDS, 
a disease that has claimed the lives of an estimated 3.1 million people in 2004. In that 
same year, an estimated 40 million people throughout the world were living with HIV,
including the nearly 5 million people who had newly acquired the virus. The disease 
has devastating consequences for people, societies and economies across the globe.

HIV/AIDS poses a significant risk to Chevron
employees and families, the communities 
in which we operate, and ultimately, our
business. As a company with operations in
approximately 180 countries, including many
places with a high prevalence of the disease,
we see the effects of HIV/AIDS daily.

In 2003–2004, Chevron was proud to be
among the first companies of our size and
scope to develop a global HIV/AIDS policy and
a comprehensive plan supporting its rollout.
Formal implementation of the policy began 
in early 2005, building on earlier HIV/AIDS
efforts that were well under way within our
South Africa, Nigeria and Angola operations.

The objectives of Chevron’s global HIV/AIDS
policy and programs are to reduce exposure
to HIV/AIDS; secure support, care and
treatment, where available locally; and engage
partners in international and local communities
in implementing effective programs to
address the disease. In developing the policy,
we examined the impact the disease has 
or may have on our employees and their
families. We considered the expert guidance
of the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS,
the International Labor Organization and
other agencies. 

Some provisions in our resulting policy include:

(cid:3) Developing education and prevention 
programs in areas where we operate.
(cid:3) Advancing the company’s intent and 

long-term goal to secure treatment for
employees and dependents in their 
country or region of employment.
(cid:3) Administering the respective benefit 
plans so that employees who become 
ill with HIV/AIDS are treated like other
employees with a life-threatening illness.

(cid:3) Reconfirming that employees ill 

with HIV/AIDS are protected from 
discrimination under the company’s
existing nondiscrimination and 
nonharassment policies.

(cid:3) Ensuring the confidentiality of an

employee’s HIV/AIDS status, unless
otherwise required by law.

(cid:3) Refraining from conducting pre-employment

HIV testing, except as required by law.

Implementing the Global Policy
We remain firmly committed to having all
Chevron locations implement the policy. 
We recognize that this will be a considerable
undertaking. As a first step, each business
unit, operating region or operating company
will conduct a situation analysis to

understand the health threat posed by
HIV/AIDS to employees and the company, 
as well as to assess the availability of 
local resources for testing, counseling 
and treatment. Local action plans will be
developed for implementation of the policy 
in subsequent years.

At the corporate level, Chevron will provide
initial funding and dedicate full-time
professional staff to assist the business 
units in implementing the policy and ensure 
a coordinated approach. Initial funding
priority will be given to regions with high or
rapidly increasing prevalence rates, such as
sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Asia and
Latin America.

We believe this issue is best addressed
through a collective approach with
governments, the private sector, communities
and multilateral organizations. Therefore,
Chevron will continue to collaborate on 
this issue and explore new opportunities 
for innovative partnerships that will help us
move forward on implementing our global
HIV/AIDS policy.

27

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 28

ETHICS

Business Ethics
Chevron is committed to upholding our
values, conducting business with the highest
ethical standards, and fully complying with
the spirit and letter of the law in the countries
where we do business. The Chevron Business
Conduct and Ethics Code (BC&E Code)
outlines our policies on how we conduct
ourselves and operate around the world.
Issues covered by the BC&E Code include
conflicts of interest, public-policy activities,
gifts to officials, antitrust and competitive
practices, privacy of personal information,
and nondiscrimination, among others. 
The BC&E Code can be viewed online at
www.chevron.com/biz_conduct.

The BC&E Code also includes the 
company’s policy to comply fully with the 
U.S. government’s Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act (FCPA). Payments to international
officials or parties for the purposes of
obtaining or retaining business is strictly
against Chevron policy, even if refusal to do
so may cause the company to lose business.
In instances where officials expect payment
to expedite the proper performance of
“routine governmental action” – a practice
allowed under the FCPA – Chevron requires
all such requests be forwarded to our chief
compliance officer for review and approval.

Chevron directors and employees are
required to read or be trained in the BC&E
Code. Recognizing that no document can
provide definitive guidance in all situations,
we ultimately must rely on our employees’
adherence to the company’s high standards.

Updating Our Ethics Code
In 2004, we began updating our BC&E Code
to ensure it clearly conveys our principles 
of conduct to our global workforce. The
revised BC&E Code will be translated 
into as many as 12 languages. All Chevron
directors and employees will be required 
to read, acknowledge and state that they 
will abide by the BC&E Code no later than
December 31, 2005. The code will be
communicated to all employees by July
2005 via the company’s intranet and 
in booklet and compact disc format.

Ensuring Compliance With Our Ethics Code
Chevron has an effective compliance program
with a structure of shared responsibility. 
A corporate compliance policy committee
governs the companywide compliance
program. Additionally, in early 2005, Chevron
appointed a chief compliance officer who
reports to the company’s vice chairman.
Chevron operating companies and corporate
departments have their own Compliance/
Audit committees. Annually, all operating
companies and corporate department 
heads submit a Representation Letter to the
corporation confirming they have processes
in place that are effective and provide a
reasonable assurance of compliance with 
all applicable policies, laws and regulations.
Corporate compliance audits are conducted
by the Internal Audit department to help
ensure that compliance processes are
functioning properly. The Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors reviews the company’s
internal auditing practices and is responsible
for corporate compliance oversight. In addition,
the Audit Committee is responsible for hiring
the company’s external auditors and for their
oversight, including approving the overall
audit plan.

Internal Audits
As part of our robust audit process, we
conduct numerous rated internal audits each
year to ensure compliance with applicable
policies, laws and regulations. Also in 2004,
Chevron conducted a number of additional
nonrated audits, which included contractor
audits, investigations, internal controls
consultation and, for 2004, Sarbanes-Oxley
Readiness Reviews. (One requirement of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed by the U.S.
Congress in 2002, is for companies registered
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to file a Management Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.)
The readiness reviews were designed to alert
locations of any actions that needed to be
taken in order to be in compliance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and pass the
company’s external audit review. Based on its
assessment, Chevron management concluded
that the company had no “material weaknesses
in its internal control over financial reporting,”

and the company’s external auditors agreed
with this conclusion. In the future, Sarbanes-
Oxley requirements will be reviewed as part
of our compliance audits.

Reporting Violations
Chevron’s BC&E Code requires that instances
of questionable conduct in any area be
reported. Any director, employee or
contractor who believes another director,
employee or contractor has violated the
company’s policies or local laws is obligated
to report the violation to management, legal
counsel, the appropriate operating company
compliance committee or the Chevron
Hotline. We uphold our policy of protecting
whistle-blowers from retaliation.

Any matter submitted to the Chevron Hotline
may be made anonymously if the caller so
chooses. The hotline is operated offsite by
Global Compliance Services (AlertLine®), an
independent agent. After AlertLine® receives
and logs an incoming matter, it is sent to and
investigated by the business organization’s
appropriate hotline representative. All hotline
matters are reviewed by the corporation’s
chief compliance officer and law department
and, if warranted, are elevated to the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
All subsequent corrective or disciplinary
action, which may include termination, taken
against individuals who violate the BC&E
Code is handled at the local level.

In 2004, AlertLine® received 185 hotline
calls. While the calls covered a wide variety 
of concerns, the largest percentage pertained 
to three classifications:

(cid:3) Human resources (56 percent)
(cid:3) Legal and regulatory (13 percent)
(cid:3) Environment, health, safety and security 

(11 percent).

28

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 29

GLOBAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT

Rafael Castellano and Fernando Barboza
view the water injection unit of platform
LL-652 in Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela.
One way our operations here and in
other countries support communities is
through purchases from local suppliers.

Throughout our operations, Chevron relies on a large network of suppliers to meet 
the requirements of our global business. In 2004, Chevron spent approximately 
$20 billion globally on goods and services from our suppliers.

Our community of suppliers ranges from large
multinational firms to locally based small-
and medium-size enterprises. Sourcing
decisions are driven by many factors, such 
as supplier capabilities, consistency and
quality of supply, cost, and demonstrated
ability to comply with our safety, reliability
and environmental standards.

We are committed to building a global
supplier base that provides the best, 
most cost-effective products and services
throughout their life cycle. Our sourcing
strategies also focus on developing a 
supplier base that reflects the diversity of
our customers, host communities and the
markets we serve. This includes targeted
efforts to utilize in-country supplier bases.

To meet these commitments, Chevron focuses
on building the capacity of businesses by
providing resources and opportunities to
targeted sectors, including small- and
medium-size enterprises, minority- and
women-owned suppliers, and local businesses.
This approach helps foster economic growth
in the communities in which we operate.

Supplier Diversity/Small Business Initiatives
In the United States, Chevron’s supplier
diversity program has a strong track record
of extending business opportunities to small
enterprises and companies that are owned 
by women, veterans and minorities. This is 
a result of our strategies that emphasize
outreach to identify new potential suppliers
and the inclusion of small and diverse firms
in the competitive-bidding process.

We provide training and support to small and
diverse suppliers, which creates opportunities
for them to do business with Chevron and
enhances their overall business acumen. 
For example, we partnered with Cisco Systems;
the U.S. Small Business Administration; and
the University of California, Los Angeles,
Anderson School of Business to create the
Management Development for Entrepreneurs
Academy at San Jose. This innovative
program is tailored for small and diverse
suppliers of Chevron and Cisco. In 2004, 
34 suppliers participated in the four-day
intensive certificate program, which 
included development of individual 
business-improvement plans. 

U.S. Small Business/Supplier Diversity Expenditure
US$ million

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1,500

1,250

1,000

750

500

250

0

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

Small business

840

984

1,015

1,364

1,310

1,360

Women-owned 
business 
enterprise

Minority-owned 
business 
enterprise

244

190

178

212

223

222

216

121

229

209

202

226

Our commitment to source from small and
diverse firms is reflected in the aggressive
goals we set. In 2004, we spent approximately
$1.4 billion on purchases from small businesses
in the United States, exceeding our goal of
making 27 percent of our total U.S. purchases
from small businesses. We also spent a
combined total of approximately $450 million
with women- and minority-owned businesses,
although we fell slightly short of our 
5 percent spending goal for each category.

In addition to co-sponsoring the 2004 annual
conference of the Women’s Business
Enterprise National Council and leading a
panel on tools for business success, we were:

(cid:3) Honored for the second year as a Top
Corporation by the Women’s Business
Enterprise National Council for providing
opportunities to women-owned businesses.

(cid:3) Voted one of the Top 50 Corporations for
Multicultural Business Opportunities by 
the DiversityBusiness.com online survey.

(cid:3) Named Corporation of the Year by the

Houston-based Women’s Business
Enterprise Alliance.

Chevron employees also were recognized 
for individual efforts in this area. In 2004, 
an employee earned the Buyer of the Year
award from the Northern California Supplier
Development Council. Another employee 
won recognition as Small Business Advocate
of the Year at the Black Expo held in 
Oakland, California.

29

211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 30

GLOBAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT

In Indonesia, where unemployment for young people is still high,
our subsidiary P.T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia supports youth in their
home communities by offering vocational training programs, such
as the Putri Tujuh Weaving Project in Dumai. Here, Murhayati
learns to weave traditional sarongs. Thus far, the project has
produced and sold some 2,400 pieces.

Sourcing From Local Suppliers
In the communities in which Chevron
operates outside the United States, we seek
to source from local businesses whenever
possible. Chevron has developed programs 
in many locations that assist local businesses
in developing the skills and capacity they
need to work with our company and the
industry in general to grow their businesses.

Our business units’ local-content programs
provide local businesses with a variety of
tools, which include skills training and
technical assistance, market access, 
business planning, and financing alternatives.
The following pages highlight examples of
some of our programs.

Supplier Forums
In our international upstream operations,
supplier forums are used to educate global
and local suppliers on the requirements of
doing business with Chevron and to support
individual business units’ local-content
initiatives. In 2004, our business units
conducted supplier forums for the first time
in Venezuela and Angola and held a second
forum in Kazakhstan. The company hosted
similar events the previous year, including
one in Nigeria.

We also encourage our global suppliers,
when appropriate, to partner with local
enterprises. The supplier forums help
initiate relationships between local and 

global businesses. They also educate our
suppliers about operational excellence at
Chevron, including the safety standards 
and reliability requirements that are critical
elements of our sourcing process.

The supplier forums serve a broader
purpose as well. The partnerships that 
have developed between local and global
suppliers have created new opportunities
for local businesses beyond supplying
Chevron. This is key to their long-term
success and helps them contribute to the
local economies through job creation and
income generation.

30

211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 31

At the Fortuna company, sponsored by Chevron
and joint-venture partner Tengizchevroil through
the Atyrau Business Incubator Program in
Kazakhstan, Dina Amaniyazova puts logos on
uniforms for oil and gas workers.   

Welder Samson Fregene
participated in the Chevron-
sponsored Technical Skills
Acquisition Program for local
entrepreneurs in Warri, Nigeria. 

To protect forest land that might otherwise be tilled
for farming, subsidiary ChevronTexaco Energy
Indonesia Limited works with government and 
local communities to provide alternative means of
generating income, such as the Garut sheep breeding
and beefing project. 

Extending Loans to Local Businesses 
in Kazakhstan
The Kazakhstan government has strongly
promoted small business growth as a key
strategy for developing and stabilizing the
country’s economy. We are continuing to
support these efforts through the Small
Business Development (SBD) Program 
of Chevron’s limited liability partnership
Tengizchevroil (TCO). The program makes
loans to local entrepreneurs and companies
that supply TCO as well as to companies
that can benefit the local economy. Since
1997, 157 small Kazakh enterprises have
received interest-free loans through the
program, totaling $5.7 million, which has
helped create nearly 2,000 jobs.

For example, Tilekshy, a Kazakh company
that specializes in fishing in the Ural River
and the coastal waters of the Caspian Sea,
needed to make facility improvements and
update its equipment but did not have
available capital. Using $100,000 in TCO
financial assistance, in 2004 Tilekshy
installed an automated fish-production line,
vacuum-packaging line and mechanized
smoking chambers. This investment helped
Tilekshy improve the quality and diversity of
its products. Since then, TCO has purchased
Tilekshy’s fish products to serve in employee
cafeterias in Atyrau and Tengiz.

Creating a Local Business Opportunity 
in Nigeria
Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) expects that
by 2007, 90 percent of what it spends on
goods and services will come from Nigeria-
based companies. In 2004, CNL spent 
$435 million, excluding state taxes, with
local suppliers. Among those providing
services to CNL is Nigeria’s first Advanced
Technology Center for Subsurface Studies.
The center is equipped to conduct high-end
technical studies, including geostatistical
reservoir modeling and compositional fluid
flow simulation, reservoir audits, improved
reservoir characterization, and horizontal-
well performance audits.

CNL teamed with a local company, Vision
Reservoir Management Technologies
International, to help establish the new
center and acquire the necessary financing.
CNL also donated geological equipment
and $150,000 to secure a three-year
leasehold on the facility that Vision
Reservoir will operate. The center was
awarded a $540,000 contract to provide
services to CNL in 2004.

Local Business Development in Indonesia
P.T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia (CPI), a
Chevron subsidiary, recognized that small,
local businesses and cooperatives in
Indonesia needed greater opportunities 
to develop supplier relationships with 
large multinational companies. CPI’s Local
Business Development (LBD) Program
helps these businesses become reliable,
professional and competitive suppliers 
to the company. It also streamlined its
administrative process to minimize the
barriers faced by small enterprises.

Small businesses new to the program
receive training on CPI purchasing processes
and project management, information on
industrial health and safety issues, project
management skills, and advice on financing
and taxation issues, with emphasis on 
CPI’s business ethics. As small enterprises
become first-time suppliers to CPI, they
tend to learn by doing and gradually gain
the competencies and capacity needed 
to become long-term CPI business
partners, as well as suppliers to other
major companies.

Since the program was launched in 2001, CPI
has registered 659 small local enterprises,
including 134 in 2004. The collective 
value of business transactions for LBD
participants has steadily risen, from 
$1.5 million in 2001 to $3.9 million in 2004.
In 2005, it is estimated that this figure will
rise to $4.5 million.

31

211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 32

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

Chevron sponsored vocational
training for 15 boys in an Almaty
orphanage. The program was
designed in partnership with
Alina Limited, a Kazakhstan
company that manufactures
paints, plaster and other
construction materials.  

Discovering, developing and delivering energy takes us to nearly every corner of 
the globe, across a variety of cultures, environments and circumstances. One issue 
that remains constant is the importance of developing and maintaining positive
relationships with local communities. 

Global Community Investments (2004)
Amount spent in US$ million

North America
34.8

Africa
14.6

Eurasia
6.6

Latin America
4.6

Asia-Pacific
1.7
Middle East
0.9
Europe
0.6

Total
$63.8m

Includes Chevron’s share in
Chevron Phillips Chemical
Company, the Tengizchevroil joint
venture, and the Karachaganak
Petroleum Operating consortium.

Approach
Our business success depends on our ability
to gain access to resources and remain a
welcome neighbor in the places in which 
we live and work. To earn that, we must 
both be good at our business and distinguish
ourselves by positively contributing to 
the quality of life in the countries where 
we operate.

In 2004, Chevron invested an estimated 
$63.8 million in community initiatives and
projects around the world. A large portion of
these funds were invested in programs that
build capacity, such as health and education
and small business development. A smaller
portion of funds were used to support arts
and culture and environmental projects.

The Challenge
In many of the places in which Chevron
operates, poverty presents a barrier to
achieving a higher standard of living and
quality of life. For Chevron, helping combat
poverty is not solely a moral or ethical
imperative, it is also a business imperative.
Our success depends on stable operating
environments, sound governance systems,
trained and skilled employee pools, and 
the existence of markets for our products. 

32

Poverty undercuts all of these, and our
approach to community engagement is
designed to help address this challenge.

Capacity Building
Our experience with community engagement
initiatives has led us to redefine our
approach toward a more coordinated and
sustainable model. We will increasingly focus
our community investment efforts on helping
create economic growth through human and
institutional capacity building. This is driven
by our belief that communities prosper when
people are able to help themselves and are
supported by an environment that enables
them to pursue their ambitions. We will
target our resources toward the three areas
we consider critical to economic development:

(cid:3) Basic human needs
(cid:3) Education and career training
(cid:3) Small- and medium-size business 
development and access to credit

We believe this approach will have greater
impact by helping create sustainable, scalable
projects aimed at removing critical barriers,
building human and institutional capacity,
and stimulating economic development. 
We also recognize that strong partnerships
with host governments, local communities,
nongovernmental organizations and
multilateral institutions will be essential 
in ensuring the success of any project.

Going Forward
Finding ways to adequately measure and
evaluate our community programs is an area
we seek to strengthen. On some projects,
Chevron has begun setting goals and
establishing metrics to measure short-term
successes and long-term benefits. While
dollars spent is one metric, we believe that
the best measures are based on outcomes.
Projects focused on capacity building
often take years before the benefits to a
community are fully realized.

We are working to define and develop the
necessary internal capacity to administer,
manage, fund and measure these various
initiatives. We have come to appreciate that
our approach to community engagement
demands significant time and resources as
well as the right skills and competencies of
our employees.

Finally, as we focus more of our funding on
capacity building and economic development
initiatives, it may mean a shift away from
some earlier programs not aligned with this
new emphasis. We are considering ways to
thoughtfully and effectively manage the
effects such shifts may have on those
communities and organizations.

“

Chevron and USAID have developed a partnership in the truest sense. It is a relationship
based on sharing the “three R’s”: respect, risk and rewards. As a government development
agency and a private enterprise collaborating on economic opportunity and growth for the
world’s poorest, we have worked hard to build trust and an understanding of the assets each
brings to these development challenges. This strong foundation is the base for innovative
public-private alliances we have forged together across the globe.

Chevron’s focus on economic opportunity reaches beyond traditional philanthropy. 
Investing in people – helping them to attain the skills, jobs and financing they need to
support themselves – offers the best prospect for sustained impact on families and
communities. USAID welcomes this focus, and the opportunity to join forces with Chevron 
in making a difference for those most in need. 

”

Holly Wise, Founder, 
Global Development Alliance, United States Agency for International Development

211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 33

Subsidiary P.T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia
has sent medical teams to refugee
camps in Nangroe Aceh Darussalam
province to provide health services 
for victims of the December 26, 2004,
earthquake and tsunami catastrophe.

NovoBanco, supported with
funding from Chevron, is a
microlending and full-service
bank providing much-needed
financing for small businesses
in Angola.

In Angola, we help fund the Discovery Channel 
Global Education Partnership, which trains
teachers to use technology as a teaching tool and
which uses interactive teaching methods to involve
and interest students in learning. Chevron support
has helped the program establish six learning
centers in Cabinda province, and the program 
is expanding to Bengo and Huambo provinces.

Responding to the Tsunami
As news of the December 2004 tsunami
disaster spread, Chevron quickly learned
that all employees in South Asia were 
safe, although many of their family
members were affected. We immediately
took action to support relief efforts, 
making early contributions totaling 
$2 million that were used for urgently
needed humanitarian relief in nations
hardest hit, especially Indonesia.

In the weeks following the tsunami, it
became evident that while the immediate
crisis was being addressed, a massive and
unprecedented recovery and rebuilding
effort would be needed. Chevron responded
by pledging an additional $10 million over
the next three years to fund programs
aimed at restoring and strengthening the
devastated communities. We intend to
apply our experiences in other countries 
to the task, actively developing, managing
and participating in collaborative projects
to ensure lasting, positive benefits. 

Before launching any significant projects, 
we are conducting a comprehensive needs
assessment, consulting with our local
business units, engaging key stakeholders,
and seeking partnership opportunities in
order to best serve the interests of those
most affected by the tsunami. The major
focus will be in Indonesia, where Chevron
has an 80-year history and is a major
producer. Some projects will help
communities in neighboring countries.

Angola Partnership Initiative Update
Chevron’s wholly owned subsidiary Cabinda
Gulf Oil Company Limited has successfully
maintained its operations in Angola since
the 1950s, even through a nationally
debilitating 30-year civil war. When peace
took hold in 2002, Chevron committed to
help efforts to rebuild the country.

At the end of 2002, Chevron announced
the five-year, $50 million Angola
Partnership Initiative (API), pledging 
$25 million to the effort. Key API partners
include the Angolan government, the
United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), the United Nations
Development Programme and several
nongovernmental organizations.

The initiative’s overarching goal is to build
human and institutional capacity. A variety
of projects are well under way, covering job
training and creation, microlending, and
business development services to incubate
local enterprises, including efforts to
restart Angola’s agricultural sector. 

Providing Access to Credit
In August 2004, the first NovoBanco
branch opened in the Angolan capital,
Luanda, and immediately began providing
much-needed financing to small enterprises
– the first full-service bank in the country
to focus on this need. Supported with
funding from Chevron, USAID and several
European development institutions,
NovoBanco makes loans of up to $15,000
to Angolan citizens operating their own
businesses. Up to 10 new branches are
planned over the next five years to serve
all of Angola’s major towns in this way.

Bringing Technology to the Classroom
Through an alliance between Chevron and
the Discovery Channel Global Education
Partnership, local school children in the
Cabinda, Bengo and Huambo provinces in
Angola are experiencing a world beyond
their own. During 2004, 19 learning centers
were furnished with TV and video equipment.
Over the next three years, up to 80,000
students will benefit from the technology,
and more than 300 teachers will be trained
to operate it. This project supports the 
goals of Angola’s Ministry of Education 
and Culture to advance professional
development for teachers and increase
learning opportunities for school children.
The words of one Huambo teacher speak
volumes about the project’s impact: 
“You came to renew in us the trust and
confidence that in this world, shattered 
by hate and discord, we are not alone.”

Chevron is providing $1.2 million in new
funding to the Discovery Channel Global
Education Partnership to expand the
program in Angola as well as extend it to
communities in South Africa and Venezuela.

Going Forward
Chevron is committed to API’s long-term
goal of capacity building and will continue 
to support efforts that advance this goal. 
In 2005 and 2006, we will continue to
promote commercial seed production in
Angola to build the country’s agriculture
sector. We will also provide support for
those reintegrating and resettling after the
years of civil war. Finally, we will develop a
long-term initiative to help develop Angolan
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) 
and governmental development agencies.

33

211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 34

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

“Over the years, CNL’s goal has been to contribute 
to the economy and quality of life of people in 
the region,” says Jay Pryor, managing director of
Chevron’s Nigerian business unit.

The Technical Skills Acquisition
Program in Warri provided
training to business center
office manager Evelyn Wilkey.

Company-sponsored engineering trainees
Monisola Odunuga (foreground) and
Oyenike Oyedele on the Roy Butler
Platform offshore Niger Delta.

Q&A With Jay Pryor, the Managing Director
of Our Nigerian Business Unit

Q: Can you comment on the company’s role
in the Niger Delta?
A: Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) works hard
to play a positive role in the Niger Delta, a
region rich in people and resources. Over the
years, CNL’s goal has been to contribute to
the economy and quality of life of people in
the region. In addition to the tax and royalty
payments we make to the government, we
have spent – and continue to spend – millions
of dollars in community investments to 
build schools, furnish scholarships, support
skills development and promote health 
care programs, including the sponsorship 
of HIV/AIDS awareness programs for our
employees and the communities in which 
we operate. We also promote economic
capacity building by creating jobs – our
workforce is more than 90 percent Nigerian
– and by contracting goods and services
through local businesses. Finally, CNL
operations promote the highest ethical and
environmental standards. However, the 
Niger Delta presents complex issues. 
While we believe that the major issues are
primarily the responsibility of the Nigerian
government, CNL recognizes that we have 
a role to play by supporting government
efforts and pursuing our own corporate
responsibility initiatives. 

Q: Despite these efforts, community
dissatisfaction in the Niger Delta persists.
What are you doing to respond?
A: It is important to recognize that no one
alone can solve the issues of the region. 
All stakeholders – including governments,
communities and civil society, and companies
– need to work together to address the
needs of the region and create a peaceful
place to live and work. CNL is committed 
to doing its part through dialogue and by
targeting programs to build capacity and
contribute to economic growth. Since the 
oil industry is more capital-intensive than
people-intensive, we are increasingly 
focusing our economic empowerment 
efforts on such areas as agriculture and
small-scale business development, including
providing microcredit opportunities. 
To leverage expertise and resources, 
we are also increasingly encouraging more
participatory partnership opportunities 
with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),
donor agencies, government development
agencies – including the Niger Delta
Development Commission (NDDC) – state
governments, and other oil companies. 

Q: Are you using any new approaches to
manage the complexities in the region? 
A: We are constantly looking at new ideas.
One new approach is to work with regional
development councils. This broadens our reach
beyond our immediate host communities.
The shift will allow for development to occur 

regionally, with greater dialogue and
transparency as community members
participate alongside representatives of
state governments, NGOs, donor agencies
and CNL to plan, implement and monitor
development initiatives.

Q: Does CNL work with the government on
the development of the Niger Delta region?
A: Yes, we do. For example, in 2004, CNL
contributed about $30 million from our annual
budget to the NDDC, the lead government
agency responsible for development of the
region. That is in addition to the community
investments CNL makes through our own
programs. We welcome opportunities to
work with state governments to address
specific needs in the region. Our hope is 
that through constant engagement with the
state governments in the area, the 13 percent
of oil revenues allocated to them by the
federal government will be used judiciously
for development.

Q: Does CNL incorporate the Voluntary
Principles on Security and Human Rights?
A: Yes. The management of our security
operations is consistent with the Voluntary
Principles. For example, despite the fact that
government security forces deployed to our
locations do not take direct instruction or
orders from us, we make it clear that undue
use of force on community members will 
not be tolerated and that the rights of all
citizens must be respected at all times. 

34

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 35

In 2004, Chevron donated $1 million to the New Orleans,
Louisiana, Public School’s Signature Schools Program, which
provides students with job-shadowing opportunities, internships
and field experiences related to their potential career choices.

Building Capacity in U.S. Communities
In 2004, Chevron expanded our community
engagement efforts with a nearly $9 million
initiative aimed at building long-term
capacity through education and training 
in nine U.S. locations. 

At the end of 2004, major new projects in
New Orleans, Louisiana; Washington, D.C.;
Houston, Texas; and four locations in
Mississippi were funded, and plans were
under way to initiate projects in several
California communities in early 2005. 
All the projects have an educational
component, ranging from early literacy 
to job-skills training.

For example, Chevron contributed $1 million
to advance the New Orleans Public Schools’
Signature Schools Program for high school
students. 

The program provides specialized training 
in areas such as automotive technology,
aviation, aerospace science and technology,
environmental and medical science,
and culinary arts, while allowing students
to complete their regular courses. After
successfully completing the program,
students should be ready to enter college or
an advanced training program, or to obtain a
job. At the end of 2004, approximately 600
students were enrolled.

Creating Opportunity in Latin America
Chevron has long invested in education,
vocational training, health care and other
community programs throughout the Latin
American and Caribbean countries in which
we operate. Our investments help individuals
increase their skills and capabilities,
enabling them to contribute to sustained
economic growth in their communities.

One example is the Majayura Social and
Business Development Center in Riohacha,
Colombia. Chevron is collaborating in 
this project with the Pan American
Development Foundation, the La Guajira
state government and several other
national and international organizations.
The center’s original objective was to 
help 230 vulnerable families displaced by
violence, but it now has a far wider impact,
providing an estimated 2,500 people with
health services and informal job training.

During 2004, the center trained nearly 
700 people for a variety of occupations 
in fields such as construction, apparel
manufacturing, commercial baking and
computers. Since 2003, workers trained 
at the center have filled 122 jobs at the
company’s production units and another
520 jobs created indirectly by the
company’s operations.

Chevron has provided 40 percent of the
funding over the project’s three-year
duration – approximately $300,000, 
of which half was contributed in 2004. 
To successfully sustain the project,
additional resources will be required for
working parents, business development
services and permanent housing. We have
already begun efforts to establish a day-
care center so parents have a safe place to
leave their children during working hours.

35

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 36

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

Below Project director Ben Wallace (left) and a local resident inspect
seedlings as part of Good Roots, a project supported by Chevron subsidiary
Caltex (Philippines) Inc. that has helped some 180 household communities
with farming and tree planting in La Union, Philippines. Each Good Roots
project spans five years, allowing enough time to train farmers and ensure
long-term sustainability. Right Team member Antonio Garvida. 

Contributing to the Environment and
Economic Growth in the Philippines
Supported by Caltex (Philippines) Inc., 
a wholly owned Chevron subsidiary, 
Good Roots takes a hands-on approach 
to environmental preservation, focusing 
on regenerating forests while helping 
rural farmers improve their livelihoods.

It is estimated that at the beginning of the
20th century, there were 617 million acres
(250 million hectares) of forest in Southeast
Asia. By the end of the century, only 

148 million acres (60 million hectares)
remained. Good Roots addresses this issue
by engaging rural farming families and
encouraging them to plant a variety of
hardwood and fruit-bearing trees most suited
to the land. Participating farmers are then
provided seedlings, technology and technical
training. As the trees mature, they become a
renewable source of income for the farmers.

Each Good Roots project spans five years,
enough time for project technicians to 
work with farmers and ensure the project’s

long-term sustainability. Recent project
locations have included Lobo, Batangas, 
and Pugo, La Union.

Since 1992, Caltex has invested more than
$850,000 in Good Roots and has committed
an additional $280,000 for a new project to
be launched in Baguio in 2005. The U.S.-based
Southern Methodist University and the
Philippines’ Department of Environmental
and Natural Resources have also contributed
to what are now visible results – thousands
of trees thriving in Pagudpud and Lobo.

36

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 37

REVENUE TRANSPARENCY

The relationship between a country’s natural resource wealth and its social and economic
development has been the subject of attention in recent years among government,
industry and nongovernmental sectors. Of particular concern are situations in some
countries and regions in which stagnant or declining economic growth persists despite 
the existence of valuable natural resources.

Many agree that one strategy for combating
this phenomenon is through improved
transparency about the financial
arrangements between energy-producing
countries and the extractive industries.
Greater transparency of energy-related
revenues can lead to better governance 
and more accountability and can help create
an informed citizenry. Moreover, leaders 
of resource-rich nations, along with energy
companies and others, have come to
appreciate how revenue transparency can
contribute to greater social stability and help
create a climate that encourages investment
and fosters economic growth. 

Chevron continues to advocate for greater
transparency and supports the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative. Our
position on this issue is that:

(cid:3) Decisions on transparency and disclosure
must be voluntarily made by each energy-
producing country, as the resources belong
to them.

(cid:3) Transparency requirements must be

inclusive – not unilateral – by applying the
same disclosure standards to governments
and companies.

(cid:3) Transparency processes must honor the

sanctity of contracts.

During 2004, in partnership with our host
governments, we continued our efforts 
to advance transparency. In Nigeria, this
includes ongoing participation in the 
National Stakeholders Working Group, 
which is assisting the government in its
efforts to enhance revenue transparency. 

We also worked constructively with the
Angolan government in advance of its
extension of a contract to our company’s
Angolan subsidiary. The result was a ground-
breaking public announcement in 2004 by
the Angolan government and Sonangol, the
national oil company, of the $210 million
signing bonus and an additional $80 million
social bonus, part of which was targeted

specifically for the Cabinda province, paid by
the association partners under terms of the
extension agreement. 

Chevron also negotiated a Production
Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigeria–São
Tomé e Príncipe Joint Development Authority
(JDA) on Block 1 in the Joint Development
Zone. Chevron’s $123 million bid for the block
was accepted by the JDA, and the contract
was signed in early 2005. The contract
contains a transparency clause that commits
the JDA to publicly disclose payments made 

to them under the contract quarterly. 
The disclosure of future payments is in
keeping with the transparent manner in
which the bid round was conducted. 

Chevron credits the two governments for
initiating the transparency requirements in
the contract, which indicates their resolve
and commitment to a new standard of
accountability. We have long believed that
any effort to address the management of 
oil revenues should be led by affected
governments, not imposed on them by others.

“

[In the results of the Measuring Revenue Transparency Index, Chevron’s weighted overall
score was 28.7 percent, which placed it fourth out of 25 companies overall.]

Of the seven companies with operations in Angola that were surveyed, only Chevron
disclosed details of a payment… While companies argue they cannot act unilaterally 
for fear of damaging their relations with the Angolan government, the approach taken 
by Chevron shows that it is possible to work with the government to achieve greater
transparency.

Chevron… made an important announcement on 1 February, 2005. Chevron JDZ Limited
signed a production sharing contract (PSC) with the Nigeria–São Tomé e Príncipe Joint
Development Authority. Chevron will operate the project, and the co-venturers include
ExxonMobil and Dangote Energy. The PSC contains a transparency clause which requires
that all payments (including production bonuses, signature bonuses, and profit oil 
and lifting costs) be disclosed to the Joint Development Authority, which will then, in
accordance with the terms of the clause, publish this information on its website. This is 
an important step forward in the drive towards greater revenue payments transparency,
and inclusion of this transparency clause in a PSC is an encouraging development. It also
demonstrates the power of the collective voluntary approach in supporting transparency. 

While companies must be credited for their collaborative, negotiated initiatives with host
governments, this means that progress is slow and proceeds on an ad hoc, piecemeal
basis; the good performance demonstrated in one country… is not replicated in other
countries of operation. [The recommended approach] is systematic disclosure of
payments for every country of operation.

”

Excerpts from “Beyond the Rhetoric,” a report by Save the Children UK, published in 2005

37

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 38

ENGAGING IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS

Through a constructive, practical approach, Chevron exercises our fundamental 
right and responsibility to influence public-policy decisions in ways that are in 
the best interests of our company and our stakeholders, which include stockholders,
employees, customers and communities. 

Where permitted by law, we engage in public-
policy debates; directly and indirectly lobby
public officials and institutions; and at times
support political candidates, parties and
campaigns. All of our activities are governed
by our commitment to the highest ethical
standards, transparency, and compliance with
all applicable laws and regulations governing
lobbying, political contributions and gifts.

Participating in Public-Policy Debates
We believe real value is added to the public-
policy debate and decision-making process 
by contributing the opinions of Chevron and
our employees, who are encouraged to make
their views known in the appropriate public
forums and to elected officials. At times we
also engage in policy debates in countries
outside the United States, but only if permitted
by the laws and customs of the particular
country. This would include taking positions 
on issues that affect our company or our
employees.

Lobbying
Lobbying is an essential and constructive 
part of the political process. As a stakeholder,
Chevron seeks to work ethically, constructively
and in a bipartisan manner to influence
public-policy decisions by sharing information
and advocating our view on issues or
proposed legislation. We do this through
direct communication with public officials
and indirectly by encouraging our employees,
stockholders and others to communicate with
those officials. Chevron also participates in
trade associations or other organizations that
engage in lobbying. Chevron complies with all
government-imposed registration and reporting
regulations related to our lobbying activities.

Political Contributions
Where permitted by law, political
contributions are allowed under corporate
policy and are subject to strict internal
approval processes and procedures,
regardless of the amount or the country of
origin. All requests for these contributions
are planned, budgeted, legally reviewed 
and approved by management in advance.
Chevron makes contributions to political
candidates and political organizations 
that support economic development, 
free enterprise and good governance. 
In determining our support of candidates, 
we consider their prior voting records on
issues of importance to Chevron, their
leadership or committee assignments,
whether they generally have a pro-business
philosophy, and whether the company or our
employees have a constituent relationship.

In the United States, corporations are
prohibited by law from making contributions
to candidates running for U.S. federal office
and certain state and local offices. Where
permitted, Chevron makes contributions to
state and local candidates and to political
parties and committees. Contributions also
are made to support our views on local and
state ballot measures.

Outside the United States, it is our practice 
to make political contributions only in limited
instances and in accordance with all laws and
regulations governing those contributions.
These contributions support candidates 
and parties whose public-policy positions 
are aimed at encouraging both energy
development and broad, sustainable
economic growth to benefit society.

In 2004, Chevron made more than $2.3 million
in corporate political contributions in the
United States, of which 43 percent went 
to politically affiliated candidates and
organizations and the remaining 57 percent
went to ballot initiatives or organizations not
affiliated with a political party. 

During the year, we also launched a new
internal Web site aimed at providing greater
transparency and fostering participation in
the U.S. political process among employees.
The site contains a listing of the company’s
political contributions, information about
candidates, an online voter registration
mechanism and the ability to request
absentee ballots. It is Chevron’s policy to
furnish a list of all political contributions 
to any stockholder upon written request.

Chevron Employees Political Action
Committee
The Chevron Employees Political Action
Committee (CEPAC) is a forum for eligible
employees to voluntarily contribute limited
amounts to a fund that supports the election
of candidates for federal and certain state
offices in the United States, as authorized 
by and in accordance with applicable laws.
CEPAC provides a collective mechanism for
Chevron employees to exercise their right 
to participate in the democratic electoral
process. CEPAC is voluntary and employees’
participation is not shared with the company’s
management. Unless participants designate
their contributions for a specific candidate,
the CEPAC board determines which candidates
to support. By policy, CEPAC does not make
contributions to presidential candidates or
political parties.

During the 2003–2004 election cycle, CEPAC
contributed $457,430 to U.S. federal, state
and local candidates. A list of contributions
made during 2003–2004 can be viewed on
the Federal Election Commission Web site.

38

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 39

As part of a larger project with the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to make energy-efficiency
improvements at several facilities, Chevron Energy Solutions installed a 403-kilowatt solar
photovoltaic canopy at a USPS facility in Sacramento, California. With upgrades at this facility
and several others in Northern California, the USPS expects to save more than $2 million per
year in energy costs (see case study on page 50). Photo courtesy of PowerLight Corporation.

Lobbying for Energy Efficiency
Energy efficiency is a focus in both our own
operations and our public-policy efforts. This
position is aligned with our commitment to
environmental responsibility and with our
business objectives. We view energy efficiency
as one of the easiest, most reliable sources
of “new” energy that minimizes both costs
and environmental impacts. Additionally,
through our subsidiary Chevron Energy
Solutions, we are seeking to expand on
energy efficiency as a business opportunity
(see page 50).

Recently, Chevron lobbied for a measure
that would allow the U.S. federal government
– the largest energy consumer in the 
United States – to continue upgrading
federal facilities and military bases with
energy-efficient equipment under the
Energy Savings Performance Contract 

(ESPC) Program. This innovative program
was launched in 1995, three years after
Congress passed ESPC legislation as part 
of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

From 1995 to 2003, private-sector contractors
invested an estimated $1.7 billion in energy-
efficiency projects, which included installing
and maintaining new equipment in hundreds
of federal facilities. The contractors are
repaid with the dollars the government
saves on its energy and maintenance bills.
This program enables the government to
upgrade equipment with no upfront costs,
conserve energy and, after the investment 
is repaid, save taxpayers millions of dollars.

When the ESPC program authorization
expired in late 2003, it stalled approximately
$400 million in investments in projects 
already under way and put 4,000 jobs in 

the United States on hold. In 2004, Chevron,
with a coalition that included groups such 
as the Sierra Club, the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, the Edison Electric
Institute and several other organizations,
strongly advocated for the reauthorization
of the ESPC program. As a result, Section
1091 of the Defense Authorization Bill
included the provision to do so, which led 
to the program’s extension until 2006.

Chevron Energy Solutions is one of the
contractors currently performing significant
work under the ESPC program.

39

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 40

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 

ENVIRONMENTAL

40

211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 41

Left Chevron’s West African Gas Pipeline group uses Ikonos satellite imagery to 
plan pipeline routes that avoid developed and environmentally sensitive areas. 
The infrared band here maps biomass as red, making vegetation much easier to see. 
Below Near the Darajat geothermal field on the island of Java, Indonesia, subsidiary
ChevronTexaco Energy Indonesia Limited’s “regreening” program began in 1990 to
protect and restore forest land around our operations. By joining with government
departments and NGOs, the program has grown and, thus far, has successfully
restored 570 acres (231 hectares) of forest.

On the pages that follow, we provide an overview of our environmental issues,
descriptions of how we manage them, and a report on our performance. This section
also discusses some of Chevron’s innovations in clean fuels and other emerging
technologies that have environmental benefits. We believe we made good progress 
in 2004, particularly in the areas of energy efficiency and spill reduction. We also 
met our greenhouse gas emissions goal. 

During 2004, we undertook an effort to enhance our environmental strategy to improve
performance. The enhanced strategy builds on our existing Operational Excellence
Management System (described on page 10). Priorities will be on defining operating
standards, measuring and communicating performance, and demonstrating continuous
improvement. This effort is a continuation of our long-time commitment to protecting
people and the environment and integral to meeting our goal to be recognized and
admired for environmental excellence.

41

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 42

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES OVERVIEW

Environmental Issues

S
S
E
C
O
R
P

E
G
A
T
S

Design and 
Construction

UPSTREAM

Oil and Natural Gas 
Exploration and Production

MIDSTREAM
Oil and Natural Gas
Transportation

DOWNSTREAM

Refining and
Regasification

PRODUCTS

Crude Oil

Natural Gas

Light

Noise

Waste

Air Emissions

Air Emissions

Air Emissions

GHGs

Light

Noise

Waste

Water

GHGs

Water

GHGs

Light

Noise

Waste

Water

PRODUCTS

Diesel Fuel

Lubricating Oil

Asphalt

Coke

Natural Gas

LPG

Gasoline

Jet Fuel

S
T
C
U
D
O
R
P
Y
B

S
E
C
R
U
O
S
E
R

N
O
I
T
A
G
I
T
I
M

S
E
I
T
I
V
I
T
C
A

Our Operational Excellence Management System provides specific corporatewide expectations for environmental performance and processes.                                                        

(cid:3) Footprint

Minimization

(cid:3) Environmental, Social and

(cid:3) Double-Hull Tankers

(cid:3) Energy Efficiency

Health Impact Assessments

(cid:3) Tank-Truck Driving Safety

(cid:3) Clean Fuels 

(cid:3) Waste Management

(cid:3) Flare/Vent Minimization

(cid:3) Light and Noise 

Impact Minimization

(cid:3) Traffic Management

(cid:3) Drilling-Discharge Management

(cid:3) Water/Gas Reinjection

(cid:3) Pipeline-Integrity Management

(cid:3) Waste/Water Management

(cid:3) Energy Efficiency

(cid:3) Journey Management

(cid:3) Pipeline-Integrity

Management

(cid:3) Furnace NOx Mitigation
(cid:3) Waste/Water Management

(cid:3) Flare Minimization

(cid:3) Catalyst Regeneration

(cid:3) Cogeneration

Protecting people and the environment is 
a core value for Chevron. Our goal is to be
recognized and admired worldwide for safety,
health and environmental excellence by
institutionalizing our Operational Excellence
Management System. We strive to continually
improve our environmental performance and
reduce impacts from our operations.

Our primary products are fuels intended to
be used for combustion by our customers. 
We are providing increasingly cleaner-burning
fuels. Additionally, we produce these products
with an emphasis on improving energy
efficiency and conserving natural resources
while reducing emissions per unit of output.

BYPRODUCTS

Air Emissions NOx, SOx, CO2 and particulates

are byproducts of combustion in our operations.
The primary sources are flares, furnaces used 
to refine our products and internal combustion
engines for power generation. The primary 
source of VOCs are emissions from tank vents 
and rotating equipment.

GHGs Direct greenhouse gas emissions, 
such as CO2 and CH4, are primarily combustion
byproducts from flares, furnaces and internal
combustion engines.

Light Lighting is installed throughout our

operations for workplace illumination and personnel
protection. Flaring also generates light.

Noise Combustion equipment, pumps,

compressors, valves, seismic equipment and flares
all have the potential to generate noise.

Waste Solid or liquid byproducts that have no

further productive use within our operations.

Water Wastewater is generated by operations,
including “produced water.” Unplanned incidents
such as spills can also affect water.

42

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 43

This diagram provides an overview of Chevron’s core business activities and the key
environmental issues we face. The issues listed in the diagram and at each stage are 
not exhaustive. Rather, we have sought to identify the byproducts and resources used 
or affected that are most significant at each stage in the life cycle of our operations.
Additionally, the diagram provides examples of some of the key steps we are taking to
minimize impact and protect the environment at each stage.

Transportation

Storage

Markets/End Use

Decommissioning 
and Remediation

Plastics

Wax

Lubricants

Electricity

Technology

FUELS

Domestic
Automotive
Aviation
Agricultural
Rail
Nautical
Industrial

Air Emissions

Air Emissions

GHGs

Water

Air Emissions

GHGs

Waste

                                   We seek to manage the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations and products throughout their entire life cycle.

(cid:3) Vent Recovery Systems

(cid:3) Underground Storage Tank

(cid:3) Property Transfer Process

(cid:3) Double-Bottom Tanks

(cid:3) Secondary Containment

(cid:3) Tank-Integrity
Management

Integrity

(cid:3) Vapor Recovery

(cid:3) Inventory and Supply Chain

Optimization

(cid:3) Site-Remediation Best

Practices

(cid:3) Double-Hull Tankers

(cid:3) Tank-Truck Driving

Safety

(cid:3) Journey Management

(cid:3) Pipeline-Integrity

Management

RESOURCES

Energy Energy is consumed within our

Water Use Water is used as an efficient

operations. While primarily natural gas, it can 
be other fuels, electricity or geothermal energy, 
wind, solar or other forms of energy.

Land Many of our facilities are land-based,
and some are based offshore. Offshore facilities
typically rest on the ocean floor. Use of land can
affect biodiversity, including ecological habitats 
and species.

cooling medium in most of our facilities. 

Chemicals Chemicals are used in oil and gas

production as well as in refining – to maximize
efficiency, to treat products and byproducts, and 
as catalysts.

43

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 44

CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY

At Chevron, we share the concerns of governments and the public about climate change.
We developed a formal, business-driven climate change strategy in 2001, comprising a
fourfold action plan outlined in the table below. We have reviewed our approach in light 
of developments in science, technology and global policy and believe it continues to be
robust and appropriate. 

Energy Efficiency at Chevron
Energy efficiency provides the easiest,
cheapest and most reliable source of “new”
energy available today. It also provides
significant environmental benefits in terms 
of reduced greenhouse gases (GHGs) and
other emissions. Chevron believes energy
efficiency must be integral to how all
companies operate and must be central 
to any comprehensive energy policy.

At Chevron, conservation starts at home.
Getting our products – whether natural gas,
propane, gasoline, jet fuel, diesel or home
heating oil, to name a few – from the ground
to the market takes significant amounts of
energy. We have long been committed to
improving energy efficiency across our
operations for the environmental as well 
as economic benefits it brings.

Energy efficiency is an expectation of our
Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS), discussed on page 10. For the past 
13 years, we have focused attention on
energy efficiency, have measured the
progress and have seen excellent results.
Since 1992, Chevron has reduced
companywide energy use per unit of 
output by 24 percent.

2004 Energy Efficiency Performance
We beat our 2004 energy efficiency target 
by two full points on our Chevron Energy
Index (CEI). This is a two-point improvement
compared with 2003 and represents savings
of approximately 20.85 trillion Btus of energy
and $72 million. Our progress in energy
efficiency provides real, on-the-ground
environmental benefits, both globally through
decreased GHG emissions and locally through
reduced air pollutants such as nitrogen
oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx). 

Our total energy consumption in 2004 was
873 trillion Btus, which is approximately
equivalent to the amount of energy the U.S.
state of Utah uses in a year and less than 
10 percent of the energy Chevron provides 
in a year. 

Energy Efficiency in the Future 
Going forward, three aspects of the operating
environment create challenges for continued
progress in cutting our energy use:

(cid:3) Maturing oil fields require more energy
input for each barrel of oil produced.

(cid:3) Depletion of oil supplies that are relatively
easy to extract leads to the need for more
technically challenging and energy-
intensive reserves.

(cid:3) Increasing demand for clean fuels 

requires us to use more energy during 
the refining stage.

Strategy Element

Key Actions

1. Reducing emissions of
GHGs and increasing 
energy efficiency

(cid:3) Set GHG emissions goal.
(cid:3) Complete an independent review and assessment of our GHG inventory system.
(cid:3) Implement energy efficiency programs.
(cid:3) Pursue projects to reduce venting and flaring of natural gas.
(cid:3) Analyze cost-of-carbon scenarios in capital project budgeting. 
(cid:3) Initiate work to develop a long-term GHG profile for the company.

2. Investing in research,
development and 
improved technology

(cid:3) Carbon dioxide capture and storage in geologic formations.
(cid:3) Provide expertise to governments on carbon dioxide capture and storage.
(cid:3) Develop proprietary gas-to-liquids technology.

More information

page 47 
page 46 
page 44 
page 56 (Flaring section)
page 46
page 47 

page 46 
page 47
page 53 (case study)

3. Pursuing business
opportunities in 
promising, innovative
energy technologies

4. Supporting flexible and
economically sound 
policies and
mechanisms that
protect the environment

(cid:3) Make selective investments in alternative and renewable technologies.
(cid:3) Expand geothermal power in Indonesia. 
(cid:3) Offer services to help organizations implement energy efficiency and renewable and alternative

page 48 (case study)
page 49 (case study)
page 50 (case study)

energy projects.

(cid:3) Pursue commercial-scale gas-to-liquids projects on three continents.

page 53 (case study)

(cid:3) Comply with European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; develop projects under the Clean

page 45 

Development Mechanism.

(cid:3) Develop strategy and governance to engage in carbon markets. 
(cid:3) Participate in the public-policy debate on climate change and energy efficiency. 

page 45 
page 39 (Political Process section)

44

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 45

Our commitment to energy efficiency is a
core part of our response to these realities.
We expect to sustain the gains made in 2004
and have set a CEI target of 76 for 2005. 

Understanding the Effects of Changing
Policies
The Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty to
reduce GHG emissions, entered into force on
February 16, 2005. More than 140 nations have
ratified the treaty, including developed countries
that account for more than 60 percent of
global GHG emissions. Europe has begun
implementation of the Kyoto Protocol by
limiting emissions from its industries and by
allowing industries and businesses to trade
emissions allowances under a European
Union–wide emissions trading program.

Chevron’s sources of emissions in the
advanced industrialized countries that 
have ratified the Kyoto Protocol (therefore,
European nations, Japan and Canada)
represent no more than 10 percent of our
total 2004 CO2-equivalent emissions. 
We respect the decisions that countries made
with regard to the treaty, and we continue 
to develop ways to reduce our own emissions
and help our customers and business partners
reduce theirs.

The Kyoto Protocol encourages emissions
reductions in developing countries through 
the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).
This mechanism allows emissions reduction
credits from projects that contribute to
developing countries’ economic, environmental
and social development to be traded to
developed countries for use in meeting their
emissions limits. Chevron’s projects in several
countries have the potential to help reduce
emissions and generate CDM credits. 

For example, ChevronTexaco Energy Indonesia
Limited is seeking approvals by appropriate
Indonesian and international authorities for
tradable credits related to the planned
expansion of a geothermal power project.
These credits can contribute significantly to
the viability of projects that reduce or offset
GHG emissions (see case study on page 49).

As part of our strategy for engaging in the
European Union Emissions Trading Scheme
and other emerging carbon markets, we 
have established a carbon markets team. 
This team will assist our units in achieving
regulatory compliance while using the lowest-
cost emissions credits and maximizing the
earnings of emissions credits sold to non-
Chevron entities.

“

Chevron has made significant progress in acknowledging the threat posed by climate change
and gauging the risks to its businesses. By setting an emissions goal and assuming a cost for
carbon in the capital allocation process, Chevron has taken key first steps toward mitigating
these risks. However, as governments, investors and the scientific community are focusing
increased attention on climate change, Chevron will need to do more if it hopes to remain
competitive in the coming carbon-constrained world. 

In our opinion, the fundamental challenge facing Chevron and other fossil-energy producers
is that global carbon emissions must start to fall in the next two decades to prevent the
most severe potential effects of climate change. Given the projected massive increase in
global energy demand over the coming decades, this is no small task. We believe Chevron
will need to rethink its plans to invest $10 billion a year in oil and gas development, with
greater emphasis on natural gas and substantial new investments in renewable energy –
areas where it currently lags some of its peers – as part of a strategy to significantly reduce
its long-term emissions profile.

We are confident that Chevron will be part of the solution to this problem. The company has
taken some credible first steps in dealing with climate change which indicate it recognizes
the importance of this issue. However, management needs to continue to assess and, as
needed, update its strategy to ensure it is a holistic one that addresses both the risks and
opportunities presented by climate change, and it must let investors know how its core
businesses will be affected.

Andrew Logan, Program Manager, Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES)

”

Chevron Energy Index
The Chevron Energy Index (CEI) is a key
measurement tool for our company. 
We established the index to track energy 
use consistently and drive improved
performance of our operations.

Total energy consumption for the company 
is affected by disparate factors, including
acquisitions and divestiture, the nature of the
resources being extracted and the methods
used to extract them, the type and complexity
of crude oil processed in our refining units,
the complexity of the refineries themselves,
and the mix of products needed to meet 
local market requirements. We, therefore,
developed an index that factors out these
many variables and focuses simply on the
efficiency of each type of activity, from
production and shipping to refining and even
corporate activities.

For each activity, we measure and compare 
a CEI number – which helps managers
benchmark their performance against similar
operations – then track overall progress 
by aggregating the results into a single,
corporatewide index for which we set a 
yearly target. The CEI initially included 
only our North American operations but has
since been expanded to include all of our
global operations.

Chevron Energy Index
1992–2004

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

100

95

92

91

87

87

84

82

83

79

79

78

76

1992–2001 energy usage data are Chevron only, not
Chevron and Texaco combined.

45

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 46

CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY

Accounting for GHGs in Capital Projects
Increasingly, governments are employing 
or evaluating policies to encourage GHG
emissions reduction, including carbon taxes,
cap and trade programs, voluntary reduction
targets, tax incentives and credits for
emissions reduction. These policies have the
potential to affect our investments and their
expected returns. 

The company has developed a set of
processes and tools and an accompanying
annual workshop to ensure that capital
project teams analyze, at the earliest
planning stage, the level of GHG emissions
that will be generated, the potential need 
for mitigation, and the potential costs and
credits associated with emissions. One such
tool, the Chevron Projector, is based on
SANGEA™ software for tracking Chevron
emissions and allows planners to calculate
emissions from a future planned facility.

The company requires that all projects
costing more than $5 million conduct an
initial analysis to estimate emissions and 
net present value based on values for 
GHG emissions ranging from zero to $20 per
metric ton of CO2 equivalent or actual values,

where they exist. Projects more than 
$25 million must submit results from the 
full assessment before they are funded. 
This helps ensure that our capital planning
accounts for the potential financial risks and
opportunities posed by the development of
GHG emissions reduction policies and the
markets for carbon credits.

Managing and Verifying Our Data
During 2004, we completed an independent
review by KPMG/URS of the quality of our
2002 and 2003 GHG data. 

The review included:

(cid:3) Assessment of SANGEA™ software, which
we developed for estimating emissions 
and have since shared free of charge with
others in the energy industry.

(cid:3) Assessment of our GHG emissions

inventory protocol.

(cid:3) Site visits to selected locations and review

of data management and aggregation
processes.

The exercise, completed in August 2004,
validated the strengths of our inventory
system and identified areas for continuing

improvement. It has given us confidence that
any GHG emissions goals can be based on
sound and robust baseline data.

We are using findings from the review to
improve our overall data collection and
management systems. Actions include
additional training for our business units 
and incorporation of a GHG review into our
Operational Excellence Management System.
Our intention is to conduct additional
verification processes periodically to ensure
the integrity of our data and continual
improvement of our data management
systems. Further information, including 
the KPMG/URS report and our inventory
protocol, is available on our Web site at
www.chevron.com/greenhousegas/.

Researching CO2 Sequestration
Capturing and sequestering CO2 in geologic
formations is an important part of our
response to the climate change challenge.
This approach, called CO2 sequestration, 
has the potential to mitigate CO2 emissions
associated with combustion of fossil 
fuel resources. 

Total GHG Emissions by Source
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Total GHG Emissions by Sector
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

2002

2003

2004

63.4

63.9

62.5

2002

2003

2004

Combustion

Flaring and venting

Other

2002

38.8

15.8

8.8

2003

38.9

16.2

8.8

2004

38.1

14.9

9.5

Upstream

Downstream

Other

2002

36.5

24.3

2.6

2003

37.0

23.7

3.2

63.4

63.9

62.5

2004

35.3

24.0

3.2

Emissions totals exclude our interests in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc. and Caltex Australia Limited, entities over which we do not have full operational control 
and which do not follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible protocol. Due to rounding, individual figures may not sum to the totals.

46

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 47

As part of our fourfold action plan
to address concerns about climate
change, Chevron has been
partnering with the U.S. Nature
Conservancy and Brazil’s Society
for Wildlife Research to help
reverse the deforestation trend
near Antonina in Paraná, Brazil.

We continue to participate actively in several
CO2 sequestration initiatives including:

(cid:3) The CO2 Capture Project, a global

collaboration of eight major energy
companies, the U.S. Department of 
Energy, the European Union, and Klimatek,
a program of the Norwegian government
formed to research and develop
technology to reduce GHG emissions 
(more information is available at
www.co2captureproject.org).

(cid:3) The Carbon Sequestration Leadership

Forum, consisting of 17 national
governments and intergovernmental
bodies formed to develop and deploy 
CO2 sequestration technology
(www.cslforum.org).

(cid:3) The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change Special Report on CO2 Capture 
and Storage.

(cid:3) The Cooperative Research Centre for

Greenhouse Gas Technologies in Australia,
a joint industry-government research effort
on CO2 sequestration.

(cid:3) The GEOSEQ Project, a joint venture

between three U.S. national laboratories.
(cid:3) The Weyburn CO2 Project, an initiative of

the International Energy Agency and of U.S.
and Canadian governments and industry.

Total GHG Emissions by Type
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Performance
For 2004, Chevron’s total net emissions were
approximately 62.5 million metric tons of CO2
equivalent. This is based on Chevron’s equity
share in businesses and operations in which
we have financial interests and either over
which we have operational control or which
report GHG emissions using a compatible
protocol. In 2004, 89 percent of CO2-
equivalent emissions were from CO2, and
approximately 11 percent were from methane
with trace amounts of nitrous oxides.

Chevron’s emissions decreased by more 
than 1 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent 
in 2004 compared with the year before. We
achieved our 2004 corporatewide emissions
goal of 63 million metric tons or less of CO2-
equivalent emissions. Although there was a
slight increase in emissions due to increased
refinery throughput, this was more than
offset by companywide energy efficiency
improvements and a decrease in production
emissions, primarily due to divestitures.

equivalent in 2004 represents a 1.3 million-
metric-ton decline from the flaring and venting
emissions of 16.2 million metric tons in 2003.

For 2004, we estimate that the use of our
products resulted in GHG emissions of
approximately 377 million metric tons of CO2
equivalent, which is approximately 1.6 percent
of global emissions, based on Key World
Energy Statistics, published by the International
Energy Agency. 

As oil fields age, more energy is typically
needed to produce the same amount of oil,
resulting in more CO2 emissions. We expect
to partially offset these increases by
continuing to improve energy efficiency
throughout the company; therefore, we 
are holding our preliminary corporatewide
emissions goal for 2005 flat at 63 million
metric tons or less of CO2 equivalent. 
This goal represents an overall efficiency
improvement and a decrease in GHG
emissions per barrel. 

In 2004, flaring and venting accounted for 
24 percent of CO2-equivalent emissions,
combustion accounted for 61 percent, and
other sources accounted for 15 percent. 
In absolute numbers, the flaring and venting
emissions of 14.9 million metric tons of CO2

We are also initiating work to develop a long-
term GHG emissions forecast, based on our
portfolio and business strategy. We intend 
to use that forecast to develop an emissions
management plan that aligns with our
fourfold climate change strategy.

Direct

Indirect

Grid

Total

2002

62.8

1.5

-0.9

63.4

2003

62.6

2.1

-0.9

63.9

2004

61.8

1.6

-0.9

62.5

Direct emissions are emitted by emissions sources within a facility. Indirect emissions account
for emissions associated with electricity and steam imported by Chevron, less credits for
emissions associated with electricity and steam exported by Chevron. Grid credits account for
the electricity exported by certain Chevron facilities that is produced more efficiently than that
from the regional or national electricity grid.

47

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 48

CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY

At Chevron, we believe that meeting the world’s fast-growing energy needs requires
tapping all potential sources of energy. Our approach is guided by the view that 
new technologies and energy sources must be able to compete in the marketplace, 
and that such investments must be considered in the context of our broad energy
development strategy.  

Renewable Energy 
As part of our balanced portfolio, we are
making targeted investments in renewable
energy projects. For several years, we have
been experimenting with the use of renewable
energy technologies in our own operations
and making venture capital investments 
in innovative technologies. Central to our
strategy is our integrated approach to
developing and applying renewable and
energy efficiency technologies. Integrating
efficiency measures with renewable 
energy projects is a critical step toward
making them economically competitive in
today’s marketplace.

To further identify and develop opportunities
to create value for the company, in 2004
Chevron launched an expanded strategy to
integrate renewable energy applications 
into the Chevron portfolio. Our strategy 
is particularly focused on investing in and
advancing wind and geothermal energy
projects. In our view, based on current
technological and market conditions, wind
and geothermal are the renewable energy
sources with the highest potential to
generate relatively significant energy
resources and create economic value. 
We also are evaluating opportunities in 
solar energy.

As part of the strategy, we are exploring
potential opportunities to invest in renewable
energy projects that could generate carbon
credits for the company. While we are
principally focusing on projects that are 
tied to and provide energy for our core
operations, we are looking more broadly 
at some potential opportunities that link 
to assets in development or future assets. 

We coordinate our renewable energy
activities across two groups: the Emerging
Energy group (within Chevron Technology
Ventures) and Chevron Energy Solutions
(see case study on page 50). 

Since 1999, Chevron has invested
approximately $60 million in renewable
energy projects, including wind, solar and
geothermal energies. We will continue to
take a case-by-case approach to funding
particular projects but, as part of our
expanded renewable energy strategy, we
expect to invest approximately $50 million 
a year on renewable energy projects in 
the near term. This estimate is based on 
the projects we are currently incubating
through Chevron Technology Ventures.
Additionally, through Chevron Energy
Solutions, we continue to develop renewable
energy projects for external clients.

Chevron also has invested nearly $550 million
since 1999 in advanced clean-energy
technologies, which include applications for
hydrogen fuel processing and storage, fuel
cells, and advanced batteries. We also have
invested hundreds of millions of dollars in
energy efficiency efforts internally, and we
continue to explore opportunities to expand
our external energy efficiency business
through Chevron Energy Solutions.

The following are highlights of several new
investments and projects we are incubating.

Wind
In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, we are exploring 
a project reusing former offshore oil
platforms to create new offshore wind farms.
The potential 20- to 50-megawatt project 

could generate between 75 million and 
150 million kilowatt hours annually. Wind
power could provide cleaner and lower-cost
power for offshore Chevron production
operations, while excess power could be sold
to the grid. At the same time, we would gain
valuable experience in wind energy as a new
business opportunity, as a potential use for
former oil platforms and as a cost-effective
option for offsetting carbon dioxide emissions.

In Texas and Colorado, we are developing
proposed projects to install wind generation
on or near existing Chevron oil and gas
assets in order to offset a portion of the
energy purchased from the local utilities.
The projects would develop up to 50
megawatts of wind energy in the Midland,
Texas, area and 25 to 50 megawatts of wind
energy for the Rangely Creek, Colorado,
operations. Here we see an opportunity 
to lower the production costs of our
midcontinent operations in Midland and
Rangely by supplying oilfield and gasfield
power with less expensive and more
consistently priced renewable energy. 
The two operations would require an
estimated investment of up to $80 million.
Installation could begin as early as 2006.

These proposed wind projects are in addition
to the investment we made in late 2002 in a
22.5-megawatt wind farm in the Netherlands.
The $23 million project – owned 69 percent
by BP and 31 percent by Chevron – is currently
producing energy for the companies’ jointly
owned Nerefco oil refinery near Rotterdam.
Within Europe, it was the first large-scale
wind project on a brownfield refinery site,
and it displaces 20,000 tons of greenhouse
gas emissions each year.

48

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 49

The fumaroles and hot springs at Darajat, on the island
of Java, Indonesia, first brought geologists to the area
more than 30 years ago to explore this natural source
of energy. Here, company production engineers 
Fachrul Subarkah and Fernando Pasaribu use electrical
monitoring equipment to monitor surface activity. 

To demonstrate the safe, practical application of
hydrogen technology in a real-world setting, Chevron
and partners built a hydrogen energy station at the
Hyundai-Kia America Technical Center in Chino,
California. The station will fuel a small fleet of fuel
cell demonstration vehicles.

Solar
At other locations, we are deploying
innovative solar technologies. For example,
in 2003, Chevron Technology Ventures
invested in the installation of the first solar
power (photovoltaic) facility in California 
to help power oilfield operations. 

At 500 kilowatts, this six-acre facility is one
of the largest photovoltaic installations in
the United States and the largest array of
flexible amorphous-silicon solar technology
in the world. Chevron Energy Solutions
(CES) provided technical assistance and
training for the project, which continues 
to provide us with valuable experience in 
the design and development of photovoltaic
systems. CES also has developed and
installed solar energy facilities for several 
of its external institutional clients. 

To expand our learning and help advance
solar energy technology, Chevron has
invested in Konarka, a Massachusetts-based
company dedicated to the development and
commercialization of versatile, flexible and
lower-cost solar photovoltaic products for
portable and distributed power needs.

Geothermal
In December 2004, Chevron announced
plans to expand our Darajat geothermal
power plant in Garut, West Java, Indonesia.
The project will provide clean electricity to
meet growing national and regional demand.
It also will help the Indonesian government
achieve its energy diversification goal 
and will contribute to the country’s
sustainable development.

The $128 million expansion consists of a 
new 110-megawatt electricity-generating
unit, the third unit at Darajat. Chevron
provides the steam for the first unit and
owns and operates the second.

Geothermal power is clean, renewable and
generates virtually no GHGs, as steam from
subterranean volcanic activity is used to 
run turbines to generate electricity. The new
geothermal plant at Darajat will displace
electricity from Indonesia’s electricity grid,
which is sourced from fossil fuel power
generation, coal in particular. The new unit
is expected to reduce emissions by more
than half a million metric tons of CO2 each
year – about as much CO2 as 100,000
automobiles emit annually.

ChevronTexaco Energy Indonesia Limited 
is working to get the project approved by 
the Clean Development Mechanism in 
order to earn certified, tradable emissions
reduction credits.

Hydrogen
As energy demand continues to grow,
Chevron is pursuing hydrogen as a
promising next-generation fuel. In 2004,
the U.S. Department of Energy selected
Chevron to lead a consortium that will
demonstrate hydrogen infrastructure and
fuel cell vehicles. Over a five-year period,
the consortium will build up to six hydrogen
energy service stations, with fueling
facilities for small fleets of fuel cell vehicles
and capacity to generate high-quality
electric power from stationary fuel cells. 

In early 2005, we reached a key milestone
with the unveiling of the first Chevron
hydrogen energy station in Chino, California.
We also are building a hydrogen energy
station in Oakland, California, that will
produce hydrogen fuel for fuel cell buses
and future fleets of light-duty vehicles. 
This station is scheduled for completion 
in late 2005.

Chevron is involved in numerous other
hydrogen infrastructure projects. With
Hyundai-Kia America and UTC Fuel Cells,
we are a member of the California Fuel Cell
Partnership, which operates a hydrogen
demonstration station in Sacramento,
California. We also broke ground in early
2005 on Florida’s first hydrogen energy
station, which will provide fuel for shuttle
buses at Orlando International Airport.

49

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 50

CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY

Keith Parker, Chevron Energy Solutions (CES) project engineer, monitors heating
and hot-water distribution equipment at the U.S. Army depot in Corpus Christi,
Texas. The depot is one of several U.S. military bases that have chosen CES to
upgrade their facilities. As a result of its contract with CES, the depot in 2004
received the Secretary of the Army Energy and Water Management Award.

Together, these reductions would translate
to avoided emissions of about 3,900 tons of
carbon dioxide (CO2) annually, the equivalent
of planting 1,100 acres (445 hectares) of trees.

In 2004, the USPS announced that CES
would complete major energy efficiency
upgrades and install a hybrid renewable
power plant – including a fuel cell and two
solar electric technologies – at the USPS’s
largest processing and distribution facilities
in San Francisco. The improvements are
expected to lower total annual electricity
purchases by $1.2 million or 10 million
kilowatt hours – a 46 percent reduction. 
In addition, the energy efficiency upgrades
will reduce the facilities’ heating needs. 
In total, these improvements translate into
avoided emissions of about 6,600 tons of
CO2 annually, the equivalent of planting
about 1,860 acres (753 hectares) of trees.

CES also has worked with the city of
Richmond, California, to install energy
upgrades, including adding solar electric
panels to the city’s public library. CES’s
various improvements are expected to save
the city more than $9.5 million over the next
two decades.

In 2004, CES saved its customers more than
142 million kilowatt hours of electricity and
921 million cubic feet of natural gas. This
equates to more than 168,000 metric tons 
of total CO2-equivalent emissions avoided.
The success of CES’s business led consulting
firm Ernst & Young to name CES President
Jim Davis as Northern California Entrepreneur
of the Year for Social Responsibility in 2004.

As a strategic resource within the company,
CES also helps other Chevron units meet
their business goals by improving the
efficiency and reliability of their operations.

Chevron Energy Solutions
In addition to focusing on improving energy
efficiency in our own operations, Chevron 
is helping public institutions and other
businesses become more efficient.

Chevron Energy Solutions (CES), a Chevron
subsidiary, is a thriving, $200 million
company with nearly 300 employees in
2004. CES provides government, education,
and other institutions and businesses 
with projects that conserve energy, 
improve facilities, reduce emissions and
ensure reliable, high-quality power for
critical operations.

CES engineers and installs comprehensive
upgrades, which include renewable and
other alternative energy technologies. 
These upgrades typically result in more than
enough verifiable energy savings to pay for
themselves, enabling public-sector clients to
finance them with little or no up-front costs
and more benefit to taxpayers.

For example, in 2004, CES was awarded
contracts from the U.S. Department of
Defense and the U.S. Department of 
Energy to engineer and install projects 
at three military installations. CES found
facility improvements expected to save 
U.S. taxpayers more than $150 million and
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about
1.4 million metric tons over the 18-year term
of the contracts.

CES has been helping the U.S. Postal Service
(USPS) optimize efficiency and conserve
energy resources in Northern California. 
In 2004, CES completed improvements at
the USPS’s West Sacramento Processing 
and Distribution Center, which included 
the nation’s largest nonmilitary federal 
solar power (photovoltaic) installation. 
The improvements are expected to reduce
the facility’s annual power consumption 
by more than 33 percent, or about 
5.5 million kilowatt hours per year, and 
will lower natural gas use by about 
43,000 therms per year. 

50

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 51

AIR EMISSIONS

Lichen, highly sensitive to air
pollution, thrives on trees in an
area of mature woodland close
to the perimeter of Chevron’s
Pembroke Refinery in Wales.

Chevron recognizes that even as we work 
on global issues such as greenhouse gas
reduction and biodiversity management,
equally important are local and regional 
air emissions from our operations. Like all
energy companies, Chevron’s operations
produce air emissions such as sulfur oxides
(SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile
organic compounds (VOCs). Part of being 
a good neighbor is to continue efforts to
measure and minimize these emissions.

While we have long tracked these emissions
locally, for 2004 we are able to report total
corporate emissions of VOCs, along with 
total emissions of NOx and SOx. VOCs derive
primarily from flaring and venting, fugitive
leaks from equipment (such as valves, pumps
and compressors), and flashing gas. NOx and
SOx occur during combustion.

2004 Performance
We estimate all emissions using methods
developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, the American Petroleum
Institute and other sources. We estimate 
our global 2004 emissions of NOx to be
approximately 114 thousand metric tons,
nearly 10 percent less than in 2003. This
decrease in estimated emissions can be
primarily attributed to asset divesture. 
In 2004, SOx emissions were approximately 
133 thousand metric tons, a more than 
10 percent reduction over 2003. These
emissions fell primarily due to continued 
flare reduction. In 2004, the first year
in which we have corporatewide data,
VOC emissions were estimated to be
approximately 427 thousand metric tons.

Within the U.S. refining operations in 2004,
there was a slight reduction in emissions of
VOCs and NOx. On a normalized, per-barrel-

of-crude-refined basis, emissions of both
stayed roughly flat from 2003 to 2004.
Emissions levels, both total and normalized,
of SOx increased compared with 2003 and
reflect refinements in emission estimates 
and measurements.

In 2004, one of our key air emissions
achievements was in our Tengizchevroil (TCO)
joint venture in Kazakhstan, which achieved
its lowest total air emissions levels in the past
eight years, despite its production reaching
the highest recorded levels. Furthermore,
TCO achieved these reductions even though
the number of pollutants required to be
tracked and reported increased from 37 in
1997 to 52 today. These include NOx, SOx
and VOCs. TCO has plans to invest more than
$300 million in upgraded technology that is
expected to achieve an additional 35 percent
reduction in emissions, resulting in total air
emissions by 2007 of 2.75 kilograms per ton
of oil produced.

Global Air Emissions
Metric tons

NOx 

SOx 

Upstream        2003 
NOx Upstream2004 

Downstream   2003 

                        2004 

Other              2003 

                       2004

Upstream        2003 

                        2004 

Downstream   2003 

                        2004 

13,109
13,877

12,475
10,656

29,010

26,091

Other 

      2003 

                        2004

11,907
10,499

VOCs

Upstream        2004 

Downstream  2004 

24,330

Other           

 2004 

80

1 2003 number restated to include marine transport emissions.
2Prior to 2004, VOC emissions were not tracked at the corporate level.

100,046

89,764

111,050

96,809

402,362

51

                        
                      
                       
211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 52

AIR EMISSIONS

In 2004, Chevron-branded fuel was the
first in the United States and Canada 
to be certified by four of the world’s 
top automakers as meeting “TOP TIER”
criteria for gasoline detergency levels. 
All grades of Chevron met the 
standards years before these voluntary
specifications – more stringent than 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
standards – were set.

Cleaner Fuels
Chevron looks for opportunities to reduce
air emissions from the use of our products
and to develop innovative technologies to
produce cleaner fuels cost-effectively. More
than 40 percent of refineries around the
world use our proprietary hydroprocessing
technology that upgrades hydrocarbons 
and provides deep removal of sulfur,
nitrogen and metals. The result is cleaner-
than-ever hydrocarbon fuels, more cost-
efficient energy supplies and a shrinking
environmental footprint.

One example is in Agra, India, near the 
Taj Mahal – a famous, world heritage
monument suffering from decay. In recent
years, sulfur-containing emissions from
industries around the monument and nearby 

vehicle emissions have been pitting and
yellowing the face of this pearl-white
monument. The government of India
instituted a series of measures to mitigate
these damages, including the production of 
a clean, lower-sulfur fuel for the regional
market. Chevron was the government’s
partner of choice. We licensed our
ISOCRACKING® hydroprocessing technology
to Indian Oil Corporation for its Mathura
refinery, near the Taj Mahal, and the refinery
began producing ultraclean diesel in 2000.

In Australia, Chevron is investing $295 million
to reduce air pollution from vehicles. 
The company is a 50 percent joint-venture
partner in two refineries, Kurnell and Lytton,
which are being upgraded to reduce sulfur
content in diesel fuel and benzene in gasoline.

The Kurnell and Lytton refineries produce
transport fuel to meet the needs of about
60 percent of New South Wales and 
55 percent of Queensland.

In addition, Chevron® gasoline has been
used by leading U.S. automakers for the 
past 30 years to help them demonstrate
compliance with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency’s (EPA) stringent 
50,000-mile and new 100,000-mile
emissions durability requirements. In 2004,
Chevron with Techron® gasoline was the 
first in the United States to meet the new
“TOP TIER” specifications – an even more
stringent, voluntary standard jointly
developed by General Motors, Honda, Toyota
and BMW for reducing fuel-related deposits. 

52

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 53

Artist’s rendering of the future Escravos
gas-to-liquids plant, a project of Chevron
Nigeria Limited and the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation. Chevron’s joint
venture Sasol Chevron is providing
managerial, operating and technical
services. When operational, the project 
will help reduce flaring from our operations
and will further the viable use of Nigeria’s
vast natural gas resources.

Gas-to-Liquids – a Cleaner-Burning Fuel
Gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuel is a clean, high-
performance fuel derived from natural gas.
We believe GTL fuel offers great potential
both to improve engine performance and to
reduce environmental impacts. This is why
we are taking action to bring this important
product to market.

In 2000, Chevron established Sasol Chevron,
a 50-50 joint venture with Sasol Limited, a
global energy company headquartered in
Johannesburg, South Africa, to produce 
gas-to-liquids (GTL) products using the Sasol
Slurry Phase Distillate process (Sasol SPD™).
The GTL process creates clean, high–
performance products – primarily GTL diesel
and GTL naphtha – from natural gas. GTL
diesel is a significantly higher-quality fuel
than diesel derived from crude oil and is
characterized by low sulfur and other
cleaner-burning properties. The performance
benefits include improved cold-start

properties, reduced noise, more-efficient
and cleaner-burning fuel, and a substantial
reduction in exhaust emissions.

Qatar Petroleum and Sasol Chevron
announced plans in early March 2004 to
evaluate the expansion of the ORYX GTL
plant in Qatar (owned by Qatar Petroleum
and Sasol) from 34,000 barrels per day to
100,000 barrels per day. Sasol Chevron also
is providing management, operating and
technical services in Nigeria for Escravos
Gas-To-Liquids, a partnership between
Chevron Nigeria Limited and the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation. Finally,
Sasol Chevron is actively evaluating the
possibilities of GTL production in Australia.

Sasol Chevron’s involvement with
commercial-scale GTL projects on three
continents gives it the most global approach
of any GTL producer, giving it a premier
position in this new industry.

Product Stewardship
Chevron seeks to manage the environmental,
health and safety impacts of our products
throughout their life cycle. This concept 
is known as “product stewardship” and is
formally integrated into our Operational
Excellence Management System (OEMS). As
part of OEMS, business units are required to
implement processes and systems to identify,
minimize, manage and communicate potential
risks throughout the product life cycle.

We also work to educate customers and the
public on safe and responsible handling of
our products. In 2004, Chevron completed
deployment of a Web-based global system 
for managing material safety data sheets
(MSDSs) and other health, environment and
safety information. These documents provide
information on safe handling procedures 
for each of Chevron’s products. The system
currently stores more than 150,000 MSDSs.
We also have a 24-hour-a-day global hotline
that provides public access to on-call
technical specialists who can answer
questions about our products.

U.S. Refining Emissions
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Emissions
Metric tons per million barrels processed

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

15,000

10,000

5,000

0

NOx

SOx

VOCs

40

30

20

10

0

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

11,955

11,733

11,358

8,213

7,990

7,303

10,745

12,411

11,295

11,356

10,501

11,637

10,105

9,326

7,793

8,535

8,555

7,153

NOx

SOx

VOCs

35

32

30

35

37

28

33

32

22

24

33

25

24

31

25

23

36

22

The 2003 data contain 2002 data for the Hawaii Refinery and 2002 VOC data for the Pascagoula Refinery.

53

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 54

SPILLS

Chevron has a strong track record in oil spill prevention and response, a reflection of our
commitment to this key issue. During the period 1999 to 2004, we reduced the number of
oil spills by nearly 55 percent and the volume of spills by more than 90 percent.

We have achieved this track record by
focusing first on ship design. We operate a
fleet of 23 vessels, including one liquefied
natural gas and two liquefied petroleum gas
carriers. In 1993, in compliance with the U.S.
Oil Pollution Act, we commenced a plan to
replace all single-hull tankers with double-
hulls. The regulatory deadline for retirement
of single-hulls is 2010. As of the close of
2004, Chevron owned only one single-hull
vessel in the fleet. That vessel will be retired
in advance of the deadline. When chartering
vessels in 2004, we used double-hulls 
80 percent of the time, whereas the current
world tanker fleet used double-hulls 
60 percent of the time.

Knowledge and training are equally important.
Our third annual Oil Spill Prevention Forum
was attended by 75 operations managers,
maintenance planners, field foremen,
scientists, construction superintendents 
and engineers from around the world, and 
it focused on field practices, procedures 
and the improved implementation of oil spill
prevention programs.

If accidents do occur, our first line of defense
is secondary containment, which means
berms are built around tanks or facilities so
that spills can be contained locally. Oil spill
response is also an important performance
component. In 2004, we recovered 64 percent
of all oil spilled – 9,905 barrels recovered 
out of 15,514 barrels spilled, a significant
improvement compared with 2003.

When it comes to oil and chemical spills, 
our first priority is prevention. Through 
a combination of strategic investments 
and building the knowledge base of our
employees, contractors and partners, we
have made significant progress. In 2002, 
we set an ambitious goal of achieving a 
20 percent reduction in oil spill volume in
each of the subsequent three years and, 
in 2004, achieved our goal one year early.

In 2004, we spilled 15,514 barrels of oil, which
is 42 percent less than in 2003. This figure
represents fewer than ten barrels spilled for
every million barrels processed. During the
year, we had a total of 986 spills, representing
a 14 percent reduction in the number of spills
compared with 2003. The largest incident
was due to Hurricane Ivan, which hit the U.S.
Gulf Coast and caused a spill of 3,148 barrels
of crude oil and 124 barrels of gasoline and
lube oil.

Chemical spills encompass accidental releases
of all nonpetroleum materials, which include
drilling fluids, contaminated water and other
chemicals, such as those used as catalysts.
Chevron had 43 chemical spills in 2004, 
with a total volume of 450,000 kilograms of
spilled chemicals, less volume than in 2003. 
A total of 87,000 kilograms of chemicals
were recovered, and the remaining chemicals
in the soil were contained and disposed of
properly. The largest of these was a spill 
of 273,000 kilograms of water that had an
alkaline strength of 1.5 percent, which leaked
through a corroded tank bottom to the 
soil below. 

In shipping, Chevron’s environmental
performance continues to lead the industry,
based on benchmarking data from large
competitors that operate tanker fleets. In 2004,
Chevron’s operated fleet did not experience 
a single spill, the second year in a row the
company has achieved a spill-free record.

Petroleum Spills

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

200,000

150,000

100,000

50,000

0

Volume of  
spills (barrels)

Volume 
recovered  
(barrels)

Number 
of spills

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

164,686

34,460

54,834

54,696

26,540

15,514

-

- 48,348

27,805

10,659

9,905

2,169

1,553

1,428

1,502

1,145

986

Prior to 2001, volume recovered was not tracked at the corporate level. Data include spills to
secondary containment.

54

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 55

The performance of our shipping
company continues to lead the
industry. In 2004, our operated
tanker fleet did not experience a
single spill, the second straight year
we have achieved a spill-free record.
Below The new Chevron-operated
Northwest Swan liquefied natural gas
tanker moves its first shipment out of
port at Karratha, Australia. 

Prevention First in New Mexico, 
United States
Our spill reduction teams working in
southeastern New Mexico demonstrate 
the progress that is possible by combining
strategic investments with employee
training. In 1999, the teams began meeting
every month to discuss spills and near
misses in New Mexico and in other Chevron
operating areas so that they might learn,
develop and adopt spill prevention best
practices. The teams next invested in

rebuilding more than 100 production
facilities (from 1999 to 2004), reconditioning
almost 600 wellheads and replacing other
critical equipment such as flow lines – the
pipelines that begin at well sites.

The results have been dramatic. In 1999,
New Mexico operations spilled 123 barrels 
of oil per million barrels produced. By 2003,
that number had dropped to just 9 barrels of
oil spilled per million barrels produced, and
in 2004, spills decreased again with only 

6.6 barrels spilled per million barrels
produced. The New Mexico spill prevention
teams received the 2004 Environmental
Merit Award from the New Mexico 
Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources
Department’s Oil Conservation Division.

We will continue to share what we have
learned. Our New Mexico division created 
a set of spill prevention standard operating
procedures that will soon be adopted by
Chevron’s Mid-Continent business unit.

55

During construction, a giant crane at a shipyard in Kure, Japan, lifted into
place what are now the living quarters at the Sanha Condensate Complex,
offshore Angola. The Sanha Condensate Project is key in Chevron’s strategy
for achieving our goal to eliminate routine flaring from our Angola operations. 

211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 56

FLARING

When crude oil is brought to the earth’s
surface, gas associated with such oil extraction
usually comes to the surface as well. If oil 
is produced in areas of the world that lack
gas infrastructure or a nearby gas market,
this associated gas is often released into 
the atmosphere ignited (flared) or unignited
(vented). Reducing flaring and venting
conserves a finite resource, reduces
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, supports
the growth of domestic gas markets in
emerging economies, and reduces barriers 
to gas market access elsewhere. At the 
same time, technological, infrastructure and
market challenges affect the pace at which
flaring can be reduced or eliminated.

Chevron is pursuing a range of activities to
eliminate or reduce venting and flaring and is
committed to achieving our long-term vision
of conducting operations without continuous
gas flaring and venting. Increased demand
offers business opportunities to commercialize
natural gas. At the same time, reducing flaring
and venting of associated gas provides a
major opportunity to reduce GHG emissions.

Reducing Flaring at Chevron
Flaring currently accounts for 24 percent 
of our total GHG emissions (see page 46). 
As part of our effort to reduce or eliminate
flaring, we are focusing on technological
innovations and creating stronger markets
for natural gas products. In the United States,
continuous flaring accounted for fewer than 
1 percent of total upstream emissions in
2004, in part due to regulatory requirements
and good access to gas markets. Further, we
continue to partner in the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency’s Natural Gas Star Program,
in which we have been recognized in prior
years for our greenhouse gas reduction
efforts. The program also helps us find ways
to cost-effectively reduce the occurrence of
nonroutine flaring and venting.

Gas Pipeline. A detailed final project 
design will be developed prior to pipeline
construction, and startup is expected in
December 2006. This $590 million project
will reduce flaring by as much as 80 million
metric tons of CO2 equivalent over a 20-year
life of the project while it delivers the gas to
customers in Benin, Ghana and Togo.

Flaring and Venting Standard for Our
Upstream Operations
Chevron participates as a steering committee
member of the World Bank’s Global Gas Flaring
Reduction Public-Private Partnership,
designed to help address barriers to reducing
flares such as uncertainty about tax and
regulatory issues and clarity on carbon credits
for flare-reduction projects. In 2004, the
partnership released a new Global Gas Venting
and Flaring Reduction Voluntary Standard. 

Sanha Condensate Project
The Sanha Condensate Project is key in
Chevron’s strategy for achieving our goal
to eliminate routine flaring from our Angola
operations. It also is one of the most
technically challenging and complex capital
projects Chevron has ever undertaken. 
The floating production, storage and
offloading vessel is a first-of-its-kind
structure to process, store and offload
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) coming out
of the wells. The structure produces butane
and propane that can be sent directly to
markets. Total Chevron investment in the
project is $1.9 billion.

In addition to adding production, it will
reduce flaring. After being stripped of 
high-value condensate and LPG, the dry
gas – 500 million cubic feet per day – will
be reinjected into the Sanha reservoir. 
This reinjection will reduce routine flaring
in Block 0 by more than 50 percent, with
an associated reduction in greenhouse
gases of 2.2 million tons per year.

In our non-U.S. operations, we select and
invest in projects with the maximum potential
for capturing natural gas and reducing
flaring. Market access is critical to the
solution for our operations where pipelines
are less available to move natural gas into
productive use. In Nigeria, we reached a key
milestone in 2004 with a final commitment 
to begin construction on the West African 

Chevron is conducting a comprehensive
evaluation of all major flares and vent
sources across our international upstream
operations, a critical first step in developing
an associated-gas recovery plan as
recommended in the World Bank’s voluntary
standard. In 2005, the company finalized 
our own flaring and venting standard for
international upstream operations.

56

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 57

WATER AND WASTE

Operator James Farrell
samples water from
bioreactor ponds at the
Richmond, California, refinery.

Water
Availability of and access to fresh water is 
an environmental challenge for communities
and industries. Chevron’s challenge is to 
use water efficiently – especially where it 
is scarce – and protect its quality for other
users. Fresh water or sea water are major
inputs to almost every stage of our operations,
in particular during upstream oil and gas
exploration and production, as well as during
the downstream refining process for cooling
and steam generation. Additionally, our
operations generate wastewater that must be
treated and discharged, including “produced
water” that is brought to the surface when 
oil and gas are extracted.

Conservation and Mitigation
Our Operational Excellence Management
System requires business units to evaluate
their use of and impact on all natural resources
and to identify and implement conservation
opportunities. In arid environments, such as
California’s Kern River region, where fresh
water is limited, the company’s upstream
operations provide appropriately treated
discharged water to a local utility for
agricultural irrigation. Also in California, 

our Richmond and El Segundo refineries use
“reclaimed water,” which is treated domestic
sewage, to supplement fresh water for
cooling in the manufacturing process.

In our new deepwater production facilities in
Angola and Nigeria, we are reusing produced
water through reinjection to improve the
volume of oil produced and minimize
environmental impact. Additionally, to
continue to minimize the impact of wastewater
discharge, our offshore upstream operations
are implementing new technologies or
processes for wastewater reinjection, water-
based drilling fluids, cleaning secondary
drilled cuttings, and better separation of
oil and water to reduce the oil content
of discharged water.

To date, Chevron has not tracked water 
use or discharges to water corporatewide. 
In 2005, we will evaluate consistent internal
water metrics, with the goal to begin collecting
baseline data in 2006. Additionally, our
international upstream operating company
is continuing to develop processes and
standards for produced-water management.

Waste
Our business generates solid and hazardous
wastes, such as drill cuttings, used catalysts
and general office waste. Our Operational
Excellence Management System requires
business units to develop waste management
plans and continually improve processes 
to minimize pollution and waste. Our basic
approach encompasses a hierarchy of
actions, which include source reduction,
recycling, treatment and safe disposal.

For existing facilities, we use control
technologies at all phases of production to
minimize risks from wastes. As we design new
facilities, we integrate pollution prevention and
waste minimization measures so that they
generate fewer and less hazardous wastes.

To date, Chevron has not tracked waste
volumes or types corporatewide. In 2005, 
we will evaluate consistent internal waste
metrics, with the goal to begin collecting
baseline data in 2006. In addition, as part 
of our increased focus on performance
standardization, our international upstream
operating company is developing an onshore
waste management standard.

57

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 58

BIODIVERSITY

In 2004, Chevron celebrated the 50th anniversary of our annual Conservation Awards
Program, originally founded by the late Ed Zern, a notable sportsman, humorist, author
and columnist for Field and Stream magazine. Chevron has proudly underwritten the
program for nearly two decades, making it North America’s oldest privately sponsored
conservation award. At right is scientist Terri Roth – a 2004 award winner – with Emi,
the first Sumatran rhinoceros in 112 years to produce a calf in captivity, thanks to Roth’s
groundbreaking work in establishing a successful captive-breeding protocol at the
Cincinnati Zoo, Ohio, United States.   

Chevron works to protect sensitive ecological
habitats and species around our operations
by focusing on biodiversity conservation.
Biodiversity covers the diversity of life on
earth, including species, genes, ecosystems
or habitats, and the ecological processes 
that support them. Oil and gas operations
may affect biodiversity through both direct
impacts (such as physical footprints) and
secondary impacts (such as enabling access
to previously inaccessible areas). We view
biodiversity protection as having important
environmental value while providing
significant social and economic benefits,
particularly for local communities.

Integrating Biodiversity Into Core Operations
Currently at the field level, biodiversity is
primarily managed on a project-specific and
operation-specific basis. We also are taking
steps to encourage a more consistent
approach across the company, including
continuing to further incorporate biodiversity
into our corporatewide Operational Excellence
Management System. For example, our
international upstream operating company 
is incorporating biodiversity considerations
into its new environmental, social and 
health impact assessment process for 
capital projects. 

We have devoted particular attention 
to expanding our understanding of the
opportunities and challenges involved in
operating in protected areas. The first phase
of this effort is a project to identify and
gather more comprehensive information
about the company’s exploration and
production operations around the globe in
legally designated protected areas, including
those in World Conservation Union categories
I–IV. With this information, we will be able to
better assess the implications of operating 
in protected areas at the earliest stages of
project planning and implement appropriate
mitigation measures.

Support for Local Biodiversity
Chevron’s operations in Venezuela
demonstrate how opportunities for
biodiversity conservation can emerge in 

the context of ongoing oilfield operations. 
We operate Campo Boscán, an approximately
115,000-barrel-per-day field in western
Venezuela. Although local land use is
primarily agricultural, we recognized the
area as being important habitat for migratory
birds. Although not required by regulations,
the local business unit hired Fundación La
Salle, a well-known Venezuelan research
institute that has partnered with Chevron
elsewhere, to conduct a biological survey of
the field.

One of the first of its kind in the Lake
Maracaibo Basin, the study found that portions
of the 247-square-mile (640-sq-km) oil field
support valuable habitat, including relict
tropical dry forests, gallery forests, wetlands,
and a large number of plant and animal
species. Many of these species live only in 
the Lake Maracaibo region. The study results
will be shared with the Venezuelan scientific
community and used by our local business
unit to develop a biodiversity action plan for
the field.

Our refinery in Pembroke, Wales, is working
with the Countryside Council for Wales to
restore soil. This project, at Trehill Farm 
near Marloes, will restore intensively farmed
agricultural land to its original state of mildly
acidic heathland. The project’s challenge 
was to find a way to lower the pH of the soil
to allow plants such as heathers to survive.
Acidifying the soil by conventional means 
was prohibitively expensive, but Chevron 
was able to provide sulfur from our refinery
operations to lower the soil’s pH. The project
won the first Wales Biodiversity Award,
presented in 2004.

In Angola, we undertake counts of olive ridley
turtles nesting at our Malongo operations.
The species is listed as endangered under
international treaty and is subject to
protection under international law. The olive
ridley breeds every year and always returns
to the same nesting beaches near our
operations between November and January.
We use a variety of measures to prevent
disturbance to the turtles, and the Chevron

volunteer effort to perform annual counts
makes an important contribution to international
research databases for these turtles.

We also have partnered with other energy
companies, the U.S. Minerals Management
Service, U.S. Navy, National Science
Foundation, and International Association of
Geophysical Contractors to support multiyear
studies on the behavior of sperm whales in the
U.S. Gulf of Mexico in order to increase our
knowledge of whether the whales are
disturbed by noise from industrial activity.
The research uses selective tagging of 
whales to track their distribution patterns
and short-term behavior when they are close
to potential disturbances.

Partnerships
We participate in the Energy and Biodiversity
Initiative (EBI), a collaborative project begun
in 2001 with industry and conservation
organizations. Drawing on shared best
practices, the partners have created a set 
of practical guidelines and tools to minimize
impacts to biodiversity and maximize
contributions to local ecosystems in
connection with oil and gas development. 
We are planning to test some of EBI’s tools
and guidelines in several major projects
under development, such as our Angola
liquefied natural gas project.

We are an active participant in energy
industry efforts on biodiversity, including 
the Joint Biodiversity Working Group of 
the International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association and
the International Association of Oil and Gas
Producers. Key efforts in this regard are
encouraging broader industry testing and 
use of EBI tools and guidelines, and holding
workshops in a number of regions to build
relationships with key stakeholders and share
best practices on biodiversity conservation.
For example, partners – which include
Chevron – in the Angola liquefied natural
gas project are planning to host one of these
regional workshops for the central and
western Africa regions in late 2005.

58

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 59

ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES, FINES AND LITIGATION

Environmental Expenditures
Using definitions and guidelines established
by the American Petroleum Institute, Chevron
estimated our worldwide environmental
spending in 2004 at approximately $1.1 billion
for its consolidated companies. Included in
these expenditures were $285 million of
environmental capital expenditures and
approximately $810 million of costs associated
with the prevention, control, abatement or
elimination of hazardous substances and
pollutants from operating, closed or divested
sites, and with the abandonment and
restoration of sites.

Fines and Settlements
At times in 2004, some of our facilities may
not have met all government environmental,
health and safety requirements, resulting in
fines and penalties. We remain committed to
improving and learning from these instances.

Environmental, health and safety fines and
settlements rose from nearly $5 million in
2003 to more than $6.3 million in 2004. 
The most significant expense in 2004 was
$3.74 million, which related to multiple 
air exceedances in our joint venture in
Kazakhstan due to acid and sour gas flaring
fees. Two wastewater discharge fines, also in
Kazakhstan, totaled $1.78 million in 2004.

The number of such settlements remained
nearly constant – 470 in 2003 versus 469 in
2004. Health and safety settlements accounted
for 379 of the total, representing nearly
$80,000, while the remaining 90 fines and
settlements were for environmental issues.

Environmental Litigation
Chevron remains the subject of litigation in
Ecuador stemming from the involvement of 
a subsidiary in an oil producing consortium

from 1964 to 1992. The lawsuit, which was
filed in 2003, alleges environmental 
damage, and is now in a phase in which the
Ecuadorian court is inspecting up to 122 oil
sites. The company is vigorously challenging
the lawsuit on both scientific and legal
grounds. Because Texaco Petroleum
Company conducted an effective remediation
program approved by the government of
Ecuador and was fully released from any
further claims by the government, we have
met all our obligations. Chevron makes
considerable effort to communicate about
the case, including maintaining a regularly
updated Web site in English and Spanish at
www.texaco.com/ecuador.

Environmental, Health and Safety Fines and Settlements

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

Total paid
(US$ million)

0.94

1.44

0.95

4.28

4.69

6.33

Total number

792

519

388

278

470

469

59

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 60

DECOMMISSIONING AND REMEDIATION

As part of our commitment to protect people
and the environment, we manage potential
risks related to our products and operations
throughout their life cycles, from design 
and construction to operation and
decommissioning. For new projects, we seek
to continually improve our processes and
operations to minimize pollution and waste
and prevent environmental problems before
they occur. We assess and manage potential
environmental liabilities prior to any property
transaction. Finally, where releases to land or
groundwater occur, we expect our businesses
to evaluate the potential risks and mitigate
them through site cleanups.

To manage and strengthen our remediation
and decommissioning activities, we created
Chevron Environmental Management
Company to improve the quality of
remediation activities and speed up their
completion while reducing the costs and
environmental risks. The company focuses
primarily on U.S.-based sites but also works
with Chevron business units worldwide to
share lessons learned and innovative
approaches to cleanups, decommissioning
and the prevention of future liabilities.

Managing Cleanups
As of the end of 2004, Chevron was cleaning
up more than 2,200 sites in the United States,
including current or former service stations,
refineries, oil and gas fields and chemical
facilities. These cleanup activities included
210 sites at which Chevron has been
identified as the potentially responsible party
or otherwise by the U.S. Environmental 

Protection Agency (EPA) or other regulatory
agencies under the federal Superfund law 
or analogous state laws. Chevron has spent
more than $3.5 billion on such cleanups since
1980, often working in partnership with other
companies or in voluntary cooperation with
regulatory agencies. Chevron does not collect
corporatewide data on numbers or costs of
site cleanups worldwide.

In 2004, we completed 204 service station
cleanups in the United States, for a total 
of 1,353 such cleanups since 1999. In our
international marketing operations, we are in
the process of evaluating and standardizing
the management of underground storage
tank systems for storage of gasoline at fuel
stations. This evaluation effort covers 10,000
systems in 73 countries.

In our downstream business, for example, 
we have worked with the Napa County Flood
Control and Water Conservation District in
California to remove former terminal facilities
and clean up sites along the Napa River to
enhance flood control and restore the area to
natural river marsh and flood plain. In 2004,
the Wildlife Habitat Council again recognized
Chevron for outstanding work associated
with habitat restoration, wetland creation and
community outreach.

Our upstream operations have conducted
cleanups to address oil leaks and other
issues. For example, in March 2004, 
Cannery Hamilton Properties, LLC (CHP), 
a company 50 percent-owned by Chevron
and 50 percent by ConocoPhillips, was one 

of the first responders to an oil release from
an abandoned oil well in Huntington Beach,
California. Despite the fact that CHP owned
only surface rights, not underground oil rights,
CHP cleaned up the well production area and
removed aboveground storage tanks; steam
cleaned all surrounding streets, sidewalks and
houses; provided lawn remediation and pool
and car cleaning; undertook environmental
air quality monitoring; and paid for damage
claims while local officials worked to locate
the well’s owner. CHP mobilized more than 90
people from Chevron, ConocoPhillips and their
contractors, many of whom were from outside
California. CHP, Chevron and ConocoPhillips
received letters of appreciation and
commendation from the mayor and from 
the fire chief of the city of Huntington Beach,
as well as recognition from the various
regulatory agencies involved.

In another upstream project, Chevron’s
operations in Russia and the Caspian Pipeline
Consortium (in which Chevron has a 15 percent
interest) developed a project with Russian
scientists and regulators to test and evaluate
methods for using plants to clean up
contaminated soils. This “in-situ bio/phyto
remediation” method can be more
environmentally sound than removing soil 
for treatment or disposal. Chevron offered
our expertise, established test facilities and
trained more than 20 Russian regulators. The
U.S. Department of Energy jointly funded and
conducted the program under its Initiatives
for Pollution Prevention, a program aimed at
creating long-term nonmilitary employment
for former weapons researchers.

“

The interests of big businesses, environmentalists and society as a whole coincide more
often than you might guess. The case of Chevron Niugini illustrates how it is possible for 
an oil company to operate in a way that delivers environmental benefits to an area of
operations and to the people there. I discovered to my astonishment that these [wildlife]
species are much more numerous inside the Chevron area than anywhere else that I have
visited on the island of New Guinea except for a few remote uninhabited areas. The Kutubu
oil field functions as by far the largest and most rigorously controlled national park in 
Papua New Guinea. 

”

From Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed, by Pulitzer Prize–winning author and ecologist 
Jared Diamond (New York: Viking Books, 2005). In 2003, Chevron Corporation sold its interests in 
Papua New Guinea.

60

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 61

Decommissioning
In our upstream operations, we close oil 
and gas wells that are no longer productive,
dismantle surface equipment and pipelines,
and remove offshore platforms at the end 
of their service life. In the United States, 
we removed 18 platforms in 2004, all of
which were in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Where
environmental restoration is needed, it is 
part of our closure projects.

For example, in 2005, we will complete our
restoration of the McKittrick Mine. During 
the early 1980s, Getty Oil Company (now
owned by Chevron) used diatomaceous earth
near the town of McKittrick, in Kern County,
California, for test mining and extraction 
of crude oil. To restore the mine, Chevron
worked to return the land to approximately
the original topography, re-establish drainage
patterns, and plant native grasses and shrubs
over the affected areas. As a result, the mined
land will be suitable for grazing livestock.

Our downstream operations occasionally
close facilities. For example, in Panama in
2004, we prepared to close a refinery and
reopen the facility as a marketing terminal.
One of the closure requirements was to
conduct an assessment of changes to the
site’s ecosystem during refinery operation,
focusing on its ecologically important
mangrove wetland habitat. However, no
requirement to establish an ecological
baseline existed when the refinery was built.
Chevron Energy Technology Company and
Chevron Environmental Management
Company specialists developed and carried
out an assessment using historical records
and current sampling to evaluate changes 
at the landscape, habitat and species levels. 
The assessment showed that the mangrove
ecosystem had not been damaged; in fact,
mangrove coverage increased 49 percent
during the period of refinery operation.

In Cincinnati, Ohio, United States, a
natural wetland flourishes where a
refinery once stood, following a Chevron
land restoration program commended 
by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. Deer and other wildlife quickly
made the site their home.

Remediation and Redevelopment in the
United States
When we cease operations at one of our
facilities, it often means just the beginning
of a long process to thoroughly remediate
the site and, when possible, redevelop it for
its next use. 

In 1994, Chevron initiated a program for 
the remediation and redevelopment of 
a 228-acre refinery site in Toledo, Ohio. 
A decade later, after a successful public-
private partnership that helped protect 
the environment and benefited the local
community, we received final approval from
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(OEPA) of the remediation work there in
2004. In 2005, we sold a parcel to its next
owners and are actively marketing the rest
for industrial reuse.

Remediation activities included stabilizing
affected soils and sludges, consolidating
affected soils within a 40-acre area of the

existing contamination, installing a slurry
wall and groundwater treatment system to
remediate affected groundwater, and placing
an earthen cap on affected soils within the
consolidation area.  

Chevron worked closely with the OEPA in
the development of the rules package and
risk-based cleanup standards that were
incorporated into the agency’s Voluntary
Action Program. The program was designed
to facilitate the remediation and reuse of
industrial sites. Along with working closely
with regulators throughout the process, we
also engaged the local community in order
to keep them informed and bring new jobs
to the area.

OEPA has used the success of the Toledo
Refinery remediation as a model for its
Voluntary Action Program. In addition, 
the governor selected the site to kick off 
a State of Ohio bond program for industrial-
site redevelopment.

61

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 62

GLOSSARY

Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A unit of measure
to quantify crude oil and natural gas amounts
using the same basis. Natural gas volumes are
converted to barrels on the basis of energy
content. See Production. 

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on
earth. It encompasses genes, species, habitats
and ecosystems, and the processes that 
support them. 

Business unit A Chevron management group
accountable for achieving specific objectives
and strategies.

Byproduct Secondary or incidental product
deriving from a manufacturing process or
chemical reaction, not the primary product 
or service being produced. A byproduct can be
useful and marketable, or a waste or emission. 

Capacity building A key area of focus for
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, 
which means targeting support toward programs
that help individuals and institutions develop 
the skills, capabilities and expertise they need 
to succeed.

The Chevron Way Explains our values: who we
are, what we do, what we believe and what we
plan to accomplish.  

Condensates Liquid hydrocarbons produced
with natural gas, separated by cooling and 
other means. 

In this report, refers to activities

Corporate level
or initiatives coordinated or conducted by
corporate departments, rather than by operating
companies or business units.

Corporate responsibility At Chevron, corporate
responsibility is defined as consistently applying
our core values, as set out in The Chevron Way;
maximizing the positive impact of our
operations on current and future generations;
integrating social, environmental and economic
considerations into our core practices; and
engaging with and balancing the needs of our
key stakeholders.

Country of origin An employee’s home country,
which can be used as a measure of the extent to
which operations are staffed by local people.

Flaring and venting The burning or release of
natural gas that is often produced in association
with oil, a process that typically occurs when
there is no market or on-site use for the gas. 

Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts
natural gas into high-quality transportation fuels.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Self-defined 
as a multistakeholder process and independent
institution whose mission is to develop
and disseminate globally applicable
sustainability reporting guidelines.

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap heat
in the earth’s atmosphere; such gases include
carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and 
sulfur hexafluoride. 

Integrated energy company A company
engaged in all aspects of the energy industry:
exploring for and producing crude oil and
natural gas (upstream); refining, marketing and
transporting crude oil, natural gas and refined
products (downstream); manufacturing and
distributing petrochemicals (chemicals); and
generating power. 

Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to
facilitate storage or transportation in specially
designed vessels. 

Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) Light gases,
such as butane and propane, that can be
maintained as liquids while under pressure. 

Local content The portion of the company’s
suppliers – or the spending on goods and
services with those businesses – that are
considered local to the communities in which 
we operate. 

Microcredit or microlending Small-scale credit
or loans typically extended to small businesses
or individual entrepreneurs as a means of
fostering local economic development. 

Midstream Industry term referring to the
transportation of crude oil and natural gas 
from the exploration and production operations
to the refining and marketing operations. 
See Downstream and Upstream.

Downstream The industry term used to refer 
to all petroleum activities, from the process of
refining crude oil and natural gas into petroleum
products to the distribution, marketing and sales
of the products. 

Nongovernmental organization (NGO)
An organization that is independent from the
government, generally a nonprofit organization
devoted to providing assistance to or advancing
a particular cause or issue. 

Exploration Searching for crude oil and natural
gas through the use of geologic and topographical
studies, geophysical and seismic surveys,
visualization technology, and the drilling of wells.

Operating company A major Chevron company
organized for a specific business purpose. 

Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to
systematic management of safety, health, the
environment, reliability and efficiency in order 
to achieve world-class performance.

Operator Term used to describe a company
appointed by venture stakeholders to take
primary responsibility for day-to-day operations
for a specific plant or activity. 

Partner In this report, partner is used in its
broad sense to mean a person or organization
associated with another in a common activity 
or one that shares a mutual interest. It does not
imply a member of a contractual partnership in
which the partners jointly own and carry on a
business and proportionally share in liabilities,
profits or losses of the business.  

Production Total production refers to all the
crude oil and natural gas produced from a
property. Gross production is the company’s
share of total production before deducting
royalties. Net production is gross production
minus royalties paid to landowners. Oil-equivalent
production is the sum of the barrels of liquids
and the oil-equivalent barrels of natural gas
produced. See Barrels of oil-equivalent.

Renewable energy Energy resources that are
not depleted when consumed or converted 
into other forms of energy (for example, solar,
geothermal, ocean and tide, and wind). 

Reserves Crude oil or natural gas contained in
underground rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities
that geologic and engineering data demonstrate
can be produced with reasonable certainty from
known reservoirs under existing economic and
operating conditions. Estimates change as
additional information becomes available. 

Revenue transparency Refers to the practice of
disclosing certain financial arrangements related
to energy industry operations by industry and
host governments. 

Socioeconomic A category encompassing the
broad range of social and economic issues 
that affect and are affected by our operations.
In many cases, social and economic issues are
closely linked.

Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate
interest in our company’s performance.

Transparency Making relevant and accurate
information available to those with a legitimate
interest in the organization.

Upstream Industry term for oil and natural gas
exploration and production activities. 

62

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 63

GRI AND API/IPIECA INDEX

This index refers to: 
(cid:3) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially reported. 
(cid:3) American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (API/IPIECA) sustainability 

reporting indicators.

For a more detailed indicator index, go to www.chevron.com/cr_report/.

GRI
(Additional indicators in italics)
1.1  1.2

API/IPIECA 
(Additional indicators in italics)

Where reported

VISION AND STRATEGY

PROFILE

Organizational Profile   2.1 2.2 2.3  2.4 2.5–2.9
Report Scope  2.10 2.11–2.13 2.14 2.15  2.16
Report Profile  2.17  2.18 2.19 2.20 2.21 2.22

ENV-A8

GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Structure and Governance  3.1  3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6  3.7 3.8
Stakeholder Engagement  3.9–3.12
Overarching Policies and Management Systems  3.13 3.14
3.15 3.16  3.17 3.18 3.19  3.20
GRI Content Index  4.1

ENV-6  H&S-1

ECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENTAL

Customers  EC1 EC2
Suppliers  EC3 EC4
Employees  EC5
Providers of Capital  EC6 EC7
Public Sector  EC8 EC9 EC10
Indirect Economic Impacts  EC13

Materials  EN1  EN2
Energy  EN3 EN4 EN17
Water  EN5
Biodiversity  EN6 EN7  EN25  EN27
Emissions, Effluents and Waste  EN8 EN9 EN10 EN11  EN12
EN13 EN30
Products and Services  EN14 EN15
Compliance  EN16
Transport  EN34
Overall  EN35

ECO-A2
ECO-2  ECO-3 ECO-A3
ECO-1  ECO-A1  SOC-A4

ENV-5  ENV-A8
ENV-A7
ENV-A9
ENV-1 ENV-A1 ENV-2 ENV-A2 ENV-3 ENV-A3
ENV-4 ENV-A4  ENV-A5 ENV-A6

SOCIAL
Labor Practices and Decent Work

Human Rights

Society

Product Responsibility

Employment  LA1  LA2
Employee Satisfaction
Labor/Management Relations  LA3 LA4
Health and Safety  LA5  LA6 LA7  LA8
Training and Education  LA9
Diversity and Opportunity  LA10  LA11
Strategy and Management  HR1 HR2  HR3
Nondiscrimination  HR4
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  HR5
Child Labor  HR6
Forced and Compulsory Labor  HR7
Disciplinary Practices  HR10
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Community  SO1
Bribery and Corruption  SO2
Political Contributions  SO3  SO5
Competition and Pricing  SO7
Customer Health and Safety  PR1
Products and Services  PR2
Respect for Privacy  PR3

SOC-A3
SOC-A2

H&S-2  H&S-3 H&S-4
SOC-5

SOC-1
SOC-4
SOC-7

SOC-6
SOC-9
SOC-A6
SOC-A4  SOC-A5  SOC-A7 SOC-8
SOC-2
SOC-3 SOC-A1

H&S-5

Key to Indicators

Fully Reported in 2004
Not Covered in 2004

Partially Reported in 2004
Not Applicable

2, 6–9

3, 13
1, 51, 64
64

10–12
13
10–12, 26, 28, 29,
37, 42–43, 53, 58 
63

5
29
5
5
5, 32, 37
29

––
45, 48
––
58
46–47, 51, 53–54,
56
42–43, 47
59
42–43
59

18, 20
20–21
18
22–24
18
20–21
26
20–21
20
––
––
20
26
––
32–36
28
38
28
53
53
––

63

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 64

ABOUT THIS REPORT

About This Report
This report covers 2004 data and activities.
Occasionally, we mention events that took
place in 2005 when they help provide a
clearer picture of our performance. Our
previous report was published in September
2004 and covered 2003 data and activities. 

On May 9, 2005, we announced the change
of our company name from ChevronTexaco
Corporation to Chevron Corporation, which
is the corporate name used in this report.
Unless indicated otherwise in this report,
1999–2001 data are combined from the pre-
merged companies Chevron Corporation and
Texaco Inc., whereas 2002–2004 data are
from the merged corporation. 

This report covers our owned or operated
businesses and does not address the
performance of our suppliers, contractors or
partners, unless otherwise noted. All financial
information is reported in U.S. dollars. 

Information contained in the report has not
been subject to external assurance, with the
exception of data included in the company’s
consolidated financial statements and our 2002
and 2003 greenhouse gas emissions data.  

We refer to various resources in the
preparation of this report. We continue to be
informed by the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Over the past year, we also participated in
the development of the Oil and Gas Industry
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability
Reporting, published in 2005 by the
International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association
(IPIECA) and the American Petroleum
Institute (API), which also informed the
development of this report. We have included
an index to help readers find information
corresponding to the GRI and API/IPIECA
indicators (see page 63).

Cautionary Statement Relevant to 
Forward-Looking Information
This Corporate Responsibility Report by
Chevron Corporation contains forward-
looking statements relating to the manner
in which Chevron intends to conduct certain
of our activities, based on management’s
current plans and expectations. These
statements are not promises or guarantees 
of future conduct or policy and are subject to
a variety of uncertainties and other factors,
many of which are beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our
activities, including the development,
implementation or continuation of any
program, policy or initiative discussed or
forecast in this report may differ materially 
in the future. The reader should not place any
undue reliance upon such forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date
of this report. Chevron undertakes no
obligation to publicly update any statements
contained in this report.

Legal Notice
As used in this report, the term “Chevron”
and such terms as “the company,” “the
corporation,” “their,” “our,” “its,” “we” and
“us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s
consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all
of them taken as a whole. All of these terms
are used for convenience only and are not
intended as a precise description of any of
the separate entities, each of which manages
its own affairs.

64

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 65

211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page A

Above Pembroke Refinery, Wales. Front cover Operator
Darnelle Choi at the Hawaii Refinery.

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
www.chevron.com

This report is printed using soy-based ink on Forest Stewardship 
Council–certified Neenah environment®, which is 100 percent 
post-consumer recycled paper and processed chlorine-free. 
© 2005 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.  
913-0386B 20M 7/05 

l
f
.

w
w
w
g
a

l

F

y
b

n
g
i
s
e
D

.

k
u
o
c
g
a

.

 
 
 
