2012 Corporate Responsibility Report

Welcome

2
A Message 
From Our CEO

4
Operational 
Excellence and 
Risk Management

Our commitment 
to operating safely 
and reliably

Executive Interview 6

7
Process Safety

The path to incident-
free operations

Case Study: 
U.S. Gulf of Mexico 8

11
Workforce Safety

Creating and 
maintaining 
a safety culture

Case Study: 
Bangladesh 12

On the cover: Sanchita Malakar received a solar panel to reduce energy costs with the help of a Chevron-sponsored livelihood 
program, which is featured as a sidebar in the Bangladesh case study. Until recently, the Malakars were unable to afford 
more than the bare minimum of kerosene for the household, so their children were unable to study after sunset. Now, thanks 
to the solar panel on the back of their home, the children are able to study after dark and are performing well in school.

Working Together for a Brighter Future 
At Chevron, our top priority is to deliver affordable energy safely and 
reliably to support economic development and human aspirations 
for a rising quality of life. As a partner with governments, suppliers and 
communities, we contribute to health care, education and economic 
development for mutual benefit and progress.

15
Environmental 
Stewardship

Our approach to 
minimizing environ-
mental impacts

Case Study: 
Kazakhstan 16

19
Biodiversity

Protecting sensitive 
habitats and ecosystems

Case Study: 
Angola 20

23
Economic 
Development

Creating jobs and 
driving economic 
growth

Case Study: 
Australia 24

27
Social Investment

Contributing to 
the social well-being 
of communities

Case Study: 
Health in Africa 28

Executive Interview 31

32
Additional Information

Progress Update
Performance Data
GRI and API/IPIECA Index
Assurance Statement 
Glossary
About This Report

How We Chose What to Include in Our Report

In this report, we selected content that demonstrates our systematic approach to responsible energy development and 
to the challenges we face as a multinational company.

We recognize that our ability to operate and to be selected as a partner of choice is dependent on our maintaining a track 
record of responsible operations and meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. This report highlights how our business 
engages and relies on our local workforce, community members, governments and nongovernmental organizations to 
seek solutions to existing and emerging challenges. 

The report covers topics that reflect the diversity and complexity of environments and places where we operate. We included 
case studies that highlight how we do business, with a focus on Operational Excellence, process safety, environmental 
stewardship, health, workforce safety and community development. These topics were identified during engagements with 
various stakeholder groups. The content also illustrates how partnerships, operations and social investment are enduring 
and interconnected aspects of our business model.

Thank you for your interest in Chevron. We welcome your comments on this report and additional content on our website at 
Chevron.com/CR. Feedback can be sent to us at Chevron.com/Contact/EmailChevron.

1

A Message From Our CEO

“ Managing risk and executing with excellence are 
critical to our company’s success. Equally critical 
are the stability and vitality of the countries 
and communities where we operate.”

For more than 135 years, Chevron has been focused on 
the same goal — safely developing the affordable energy vital 
to economic growth and development. 

Fulfilling our goal involves managing the risks inherent in our 
industry. We work tirelessly to mitigate those risks, even as 
the scale and complexity of our projects continue to increase. 
Fulfilling our goal also involves a commitment to responsible 
and ethical behavior, which is embedded in our system of 
values. And Chevron’s 58,000 employees around the world are 
committed to those values, which we call The Chevron Way. 

The expectations of our stockholders, our partners and 
communities have never been higher. They expect that we will 
live up to these values and that we will achieve our results 
the right way. Every single employee, including me, has the 
same expectations.

Fundamental to everything we do is a constant focus on achiev-
ing higher levels of operational, environmental and safety 
performance. We continue to be an industry leader in personal 
safety, as measured by injuries requiring time away from 
work. And in 2012, we delivered our lowest spill volumes ever.

This report shares our progress toward world-class perform-
ance in Operational Excellence, highlighting how we build a 
consistent safety culture, manage deepwater risk, eliminate 
flares, protect biodiversity in our global operations and 
improve the livelihoods of communities near our operations. 
These efforts are guided by our Operational Excellence 
Management System, which aligns with international stand-
ards for safety and environmental performance and drives 
extensive use of tools — such as stop-work authority, by which 
every employee and contractor has the right and responsibility 
to stop work when noticing an unsafe act or condition; our 
Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment, which is 
used before we begin and throughout the life cycle of our major 
capital projects; and active engagement with our stakeholders. 

Managing risk and executing with excellence are critical 
to our company’s success. Equally critical are the stability and 
vitality of the countries and communities where we operate. 
Chevron operates in some of the most challenging, complex 
and dynamic places in the world. In many locations, communi-
ties must confront critical social and economic issues, includ-
ing access to health care, education and the resources needed 
for sustained prosperity. 

We are proud of our progress, but we are not at zero. We under-
stand that the stakes are high and the tolerance is low for 
events that affect people and the environment. We are working 
to eliminate incidents. 

We partner with local governments, our business partners and 
our stakeholders to enhance communities by generating 
jobs, supporting local supply chains and strengthening local 
economies. We also expand health and education capacity, 

2

support small businesses, train workers to industry 
standards, and invest in the local workforce. For example, in 
Angola, Kazakhstan and Nigeria more than 85 percent of 
our employees are nationals. 

In 2012, we purchased more than $60 billion in goods and 
services around the globe, providing a meaningful stimulus for 
local economies. And in the past seven years, we’ve invested 
nearly $1.2 billion in partnerships worldwide to build stronger, 
healthier communities. Our approach to partnership is 
showcased in this year’s report — in how we are partnering 
with local government and other stakeholders to help develop 
the economic future of the Onslow community in Western 
Australia, and how we partner with governments, communities 
and health organizations in the fight against HIV/AIDS in 
sub-Saharan Africa. 

We’re proud of the work we do, and we’re always striving 
to be better. By being vigilant in maintaining a strong, healthy 
workforce; operating safely and responsibly; partnering to 
create value for our stakeholders; and providing energy the 
right way — The Chevron Way — we help meet the world’s 
energy needs and continue to foster economic development 
around the world. We hope you find the case studies and 
operational data in this report to be informative and useful.

John S. Watson
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer
May 2013

The Chevron Way

The Chevron Way deﬁ nes who we 
are, what we do and what we believe. 
At the heart of The Chevron Way is 
our vision … to be the global energy 
company most admired for its people, 
partnership and performance.

We make this vision a reality by 
consistently putting our values into 
practice. The Chevron Way values 
distinguish us and guide our actions 
so that we get results the right way. 
Our values are integrity, trust, 
diversity, ingenuity, partnership, 
protecting people and the environ-
ment, and high performance.

To read more about The Chevron Way, 
please visit Chevron.com/ChevronWay.

3

Operational Excellence and 
Risk Management

At Chevron, we’re focused on safely delivering 
the energy the world needs to power human 
and economic progress. This requires constant 
attention to countless details and processes. 

Our Chevron Way values place the 
highest priority on protecting people and 
the environment. Chevron has a rigorous 
management system that translates 
this priority into world-class performance; 
we call this our Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS).

Chevron has built an Operational Excellence 
(OE) culture on the belief that incidents 
are preventable. We have policies, processes, 
tools and behavioral expectations in place 
to assist us in achieving this goal. 

OE is based on five objectives: 
•   Achieve an incident- and injury-free 

workplace. 

•   Promote a healthy workforce 

and mitigate significant workplace 
health risks.

•   Identify and mitigate environmental 

and process safety risks.

•   Operate with industry-leading asset 

integrity and reliability. 

•   Efficiently use natural resources 

and assets.

Our company has made significant 
progress in implementing our Operational 
Excellence Management System through 
focus, discipline and hard work. In 2012, we 
made great strides in our personal safety 
performance, and we placed even greater 
focus on process safety. We continued 
to reduce the number of personal injuries. 
From 2001 to 2012, our Total Recordable 
Incident Rate decreased by 71 percent.

To accelerate progress on preventing process 
safety incidents, we launched workshops 
in managing process safety for executive 
leaders, who then cascaded this training to 
their organizations. Our Corporate OE Audit 
group assessed the adoption of process 
safety standards throughout the enterprise 
for asset integrity, operating procedures and 
technical codes. We also continued to build 
our companywide Compliance Assurance 
system and deployed new auditor training to 
improve the performance of the function.

For more details, please visit 
Chevron.com/OE.

As the Green Canyon 6A offshore platform 
ends its producing life, Chevron safely removes 
the structure. The lower 485 feet (148 m) 
of the platform’s support legs remain in place 
under water as an artificial reef, a habitat 
that supports a rich diversity of marine life.

4

Protecting People and the Environment

We believe that every one of our employees 
and contractors, whether in offices or in the 
field, plays an important role in maintaining 
safe and reliable operations. It’s not just 
good for business; it’s the right thing to do.

Richmond, California, refinery crude unit — 
remind us that we must do better. These 
incidents do not reflect the expectations we 
have of ourselves or the expectations that 
the community has of us. 

Incidents in 2012 — the January fire aboard 
the KS Endeavor drilling rig working 
offshore for Chevron Nigeria Ltd. and the 
August fire in the Chevron U.S.A. Inc. 

We investigated the incidents and engaged 
closely with regulators, which facilitated 
our implementation of improvements in proc-
esses and operations. The actions we are 

taking will strengthen management oversight 
and add layers of process safety protection. 

Chevron remains committed to zero inci-
dents. We are confident that our continual 
improvements in the areas of process safety, 
environmental stewardship and operational 
discipline will significantly reduce the poten-
tial for future incidents and will keep our 
workforce safe.

5

Executive Interview
On Operational Excellence

Warner Williams
Vice President
Gulf of Mexico Business Unit

What are the greatest 
challenges to operating 
safely and responsibly?

What is Chevron doing 
to improve safety in 
operations?

What is the role of 
leaders in reinforcing 
safety?

There are a number of factors that 
could increase our exposure to 
incidents if we don’t work consistently 
to manage risks properly. 

Operational discipline — completing 
every task the right way, every 
time — is critical to the success of 
our business. 

Chevron has a growing global 
workforce, with close to 260,000 
employees and contractors through-
out the world. 

Our portfolio is increasing in size 
and technical complexity. For example, 
today we use new technologies and 
equipment to find and produce natural 
resources in water depths that were 
unheard of 10 years ago. 

At the same time, some of our existing 
infrastructure is aging. Maintaining 
the integrity of these assets continues 
to be a focus area for us as we seek 
to improve resource recovery.

We can manage these factors by being 
relentless in our efforts to reduce 
operational risks and to protect people 
and the environment.

In 2012, we initiated WELLSAFE, 
a certification program rooted in 
operational discipline that provides 
the maximum reasonable assurance 
that well control will be maintained 
at all times and further reduces 
the potential for an oil spill during 
drilling operations.

We also intensified our focus on opera-
tional discipline through the deploy-
ment of coaches who verify workforce 
competency on safe-work practices, 
appropriate safeguards and controls 
for high-consequence activities. 

We know that achieving zero incidents 
is possible, having realized this goal 
in several areas of our company and 
with many contractors. In 2012, 50-plus 
groups achieved more than 1 million 
hours without a Days Away From Work 
incident. We also had our lowest-ever 
number and volume of spills.

Our mandate is to make sure that 
every member of our workforce goes 
home safe after his or her work 
shift. Leaders demonstrate their com-
mitment to safety through personal 
engagement with the workforce. 

Leaders at all levels make site visits 
to identify potential hazards in our 
operations, check the existence and 
effectiveness of key safeguards, 
and reinforce the culture of personal 
and process safety in the daily work 
activities of employees and contractors.

Leaders reinforce the workforce’s 
knowledge and application of good 
stewardship practices through training, 
certifications, onsite coaching, mentor-
ing and safe-work activity verification. 

It takes all of us being vigilant 
about maintaining our safeguards 
and equipment to systematically 
eliminate incidents.

6

Overview
Process Safety

Chevron strives to operate incident-free. 
To achieve this goal, we must complete every 
task the right way, every time. 

Process safety is a blend of engineering and management skills and practices focused 
on preventing incidents, particularly explosions, fires and releases. Our Operational 
Excellence Management System requires that safeguards are in place and maintained to 
prevent process incidents. Safeguards include several types of protection, such as alarms, 
automatic shutdowns and equipment integrity procedures. Having multiple layers of 
protection helps to prevent a small mistake or failure from becoming a bigger incident. 

We are providing process safety training and making safeguards more visible to the entire 
workforce. In 2012, our senior leaders across the enterprise attended process safety 
workshops, and they continue the dialogue by incorporating a higher focus on process 
safety into routine business meetings. Process safety was a topic of focus at our annual 
companywide employee meeting and at our Operational Excellence Forum. 

Our operating companies also continue to improve their ability to prevent process 
safety incidents. In addition to implementing corporate process safety standards, each 
business segment is working to strengthen the layers of protection that prevent inci-
dents. For example, through an improved process for alerts and bulletins, our Upstream 
operating companies have increased their ability to learn from incidents. Our Drilling 
group began a new program for drill-site managers, and Global Manufacturing expanded 
its Operational Excellence and Reliability Intelligence system to include additional 
leading indicators of process safety performance.

To learn more, please visit Chevron.com/OE.

Workers are transferred by personnel basket from a supply vessel and onto the Discoverer Clear 
Leader drillship in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.

7

U.S. Gulf of Mexico
Executing With Excellence

Chevron is one of the largest producers of crude oil and natural gas in the U.S. Gulf of 
Mexico. A continuing commitment to safety, leading Operational Excellence (OE) 
programs and new technology allow us to tap into needed energy supplies. At the 
same time, our work in the Gulf creates jobs and grows businesses.

Chevron’s Billy Varnado knows that 
the time for easily finding oil is 
gone. Twelve years ago, he worked 
on our first discovery in the deepwater 
region of the Gulf of Mexico, the 
Genesis Field, located approximately 
150 miles (241 km) south of New 
Orleans, Louisiana, where we tapped 
resources 12,000 feet (3,658 m) below 
sea level. Today, his work takes him 
another 130 miles (209 km) south of 
Genesis to the Chevron-operated 
discoveries Jack and St. Malo, where 
we will seek energy at depths of 
27,000 feet (8,230 m) below the 
water’s surface.

“Jack and St. Malo are being devel-
oped at extreme depths and amid 

challenging temperatures, currents, 
pressures and drilling complexity,” 
said Varnado, the Jack/St. Malo 
project director. “We implement 
processes to help ensure the health 
and safety of our people and the 
environment, from design to 
production and through the life 
of the field’s operation, which can 
last for decades.”

Jack and St. Malo highlight the com-
plexity of finding new energy sources. 
The project involves two fields 25 miles 
(40 km) apart. Each field will have 
separate clusters of wellheads on the 
seafloor that will be connected to a 
single floating production unit located 
between the two facilities. When the 

Above: Bob Miller is a ﬁ eld Health, Environment 
and Safety specialist in the Gulf of Mexico aboard 
the Paciﬁ c Santa Ana, a deepwater drillship built 
to Chevron’s speciﬁ cations and the ﬁ rst drillship 
with dual-gradient drilling capabilities, which can 
enhance the safety of deepwater drilling. 

$7.5 billion Jack/St. Malo project comes 
on line in 2014, it is expected to supply 
energy resources for 30 to 40 years.

“Our growth depends on our ability to 
maintain the region’s confidence in 
our deepwater drilling projects and prac-
tices. People expect that the energy 
the world needs will be produced safely 
and reliably,” said Warner Williams, 
vice president of the Gulf of Mexico 
business unit. “There is no room for 
complacency in our operations.”

8

Safety in Design and Processes
Our Operational Excellence Manage-
ment System (OEMS) guides our com-
mitment to incident-free operations. 
OEMS includes policies, processes, 
tools and behavioral expectations that 
focus our workforce on protecting the 
safety and health of people and the 
environment and on conducting our 
operations reliably and efficiently. 

The Jack/St. Malo facilities and 
their installation are massive undertak-
ings. “The structures we’re building 
are the size of huge hotels, complete 
with living quarters, food services, 
vessel and helicopter transportation, 
advanced surveillance, and communi-
cation and control capability,” said 
Mike Casey, general manager for the 
Gulf of Mexico operations.

“We understand the impacts that 
can result from an operational error,” 
said Stephen Thurston, vice president 
of Chevron Deepwater Exploration and 
Projects (DWEP) in the Gulf of Mexico. 
“Operational Excellence isn’t static, 
and it must be applied to every task 
every day. All operators and business 
partners must also be committed to 
improvements in OE, especially as new 
technology is developed.”

Within OEMS, Chevron’s approach to 
process safety management is based 
on the Center for Chemical Process 
Safety’s Guidelines for Risk Based 
Process Safety, and we establish 
stringent requirements for the design, 
construction, operation and mainte-
nance of our facilities. 

Process safety is incorporated into 
the design of our production facilities. 
Our Big Foot facility, another field in 
the Gulf of Mexico 225 miles (362 km) 
south of New Orleans, is being designed 
to survive 1,000-year-storm conditions. 
It will include 16 tendons made of steel 
pipes, each up to 44 inches (112 cm) 
in diameter, to moor a nearly 400-foot-
wide (122-m) floating platform to 
the ocean floor approximately 1 mile 
(1.6 km) below the surface.

In 2012, we took delivery of the Pacific 
Santa Ana, the first deepwater drillship 
built to our specifications for dual-
gradient drilling using a seabed pump 
located above the blowout preventer. 
This drillship will be the first in the indus-
try to deploy the GE MaxLift 1800™ 

Finding Oil Ever Deeper 
The Oil and Gas Industry Increases Its Reach

0 FT

10,000

20,000

30,000

40,000

1 foot = 0.3 meter

Industry Water Depth

Industry Drilling Depth

Industry Record
Achieved by Chevron

SOURCE: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
OF PETROLEUM GEOLOGISTS

Water Depth 
Record (’03): 
10,011 ft

Current 
Water Depth 
Rig Capability: 
12,000 ft

Drilling Depth 
Record (’09): 
35,955 ft

Drilling Depth 
Record (’05): 
34,189 ft

Current 
Drilling Depth 
Rig Capability: 
40,000 ft

PRE-1950

’50–’59

’60–’69

’70–’79

’80–’89

’90–’99

’00–’09

’10–’12

Turning Rigs Into Reefs

When the last drop of new energy is 
extracted by many of our offshore oil plat-
forms, one job ends and another begins. 
Since 1983, we have donated 74 structures 
to programs in Louisiana, Mississippi and 
other U.S. states that create artificial reefs 
in the Gulf of Mexico. 

Reusing the platforms creates a new 
ecosystem with thousands of inverte-
brates and fishes. “The platforms provide 
excellent habitat that is beneficial both 
to marine organisms that inhabit these 
reef systems and to commercial and 
recreational fishermen,” said Lew Dennis, 
U.S. offshore area manager for Chevron 
Environmental Management Co. (EMC). 

“Something no one can argue about 
is that there’s no better fishing anywhere 
in the Gulf than off the Louisiana coast, 
and that’s due in part to these artificial 
reef structures created from decommis-
sioned oil platforms,” said Randy Pausina, 
assistant secretary at the Louisiana 
Department of Wildlife and Fisheries.

Turning rigs into reefs presents unique 
challenges. For example, EMC and our 
Gulf of Mexico operations worked together 
to decommission a platform that stood 
in 473 feet (144 m) of water near the 
mouth of the Mississippi River. The project 
required removing the platform “jacket,” 
or support legs. The jacket was removed 
as one 520-foot-tall (158-m) piece. Instead 
of having divers conduct the hazardous 
work of removing the soil and sand around 
the footings, large remote-controlled 
dredges safely extracted the material. 
The massive platform deck, or topsides, 
was removed by a special heavy-lift vessel 
and brought to shore for disposal. Through 
the Louisiana Artificial Reef Program, 
the support legs were lifted, towed to a 
designated location and lowered to the 
seafloor to create an artificial reef.

Left: For more than 60 years, new technology 
has enabled the oil and gas industry to drill 
at ever-greater depths. Chevron achieved industry 
water depth and drilling depth records in 2003, 
2005 and 2009.

9

We had no recordable fires in 2012, and 
our Gulf workforce recorded more than 
12 million work hours without a Days 
Away From Work injury. 

Before employees or contractors 
begin working in Gulf waters, they are 
rigorously trained in safety procedures. 
All drilling personnel must have current 
industry-recognized certifications that 
cover such procedures as well control 
and the management of abnormal 
conditions. Chevron requires its con-
tractors to adhere to company safety 
standards and to comply with the 
company’s OE practices. This is critical 
because our contractors conduct 
80 percent of the work in drilling and 
completions for DWEP. 

“We can break every deep-drilling 
record and make new discoveries, but 
we will have failed if one of our team 
members is injured,” said Marcel 
Robichaux, general manager for DWEP 
Drilling and Completions. 

Worker and process safety are 
enhanced by our longstanding commit-
ment to practices such as stop-work 
authority, which allows any employee 
or contractor — from a cook to a drilling 
superintendent — to stop the work on 
a project to raise a safety concern, 
without repercussions. That thinking 
extends to project planning. Iain Haughie, 
Chevron’s DWEP Health, Environment 
and Safety manager, said that if an 
operating plan isn’t right or if something 
changes, it’s part of our safety culture 
to stop the work and revisit the plan.

“We have five drillships right now in the 
deep waters of the Gulf,” said Haughie, 
“and we’re drilling a series of wells over 
the next few years. You have to get it 
right every single time.” 

  Hear employee Natalie Martin explain how 

process safety enhances personal safety on 
an offshore rig at Chevron.com/CR2012/GOM.

Above: Construction is under way on the Jack/St. Malo project in the fabrication yard near Ingleside, 
Texas. Approximately 1,000 workers are constructing the massive structures, which are scheduled to 
depart for the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in late 2013.

The Jack/St. Malo 
project is creating 
more than 

1,000 

construction jobs 
in the region

pump, the core component of dual-
gradient drilling. This technology allows 
wells to be drilled more effectively by 
managing two fluids in the wellbore: a 
seawater-density fluid from the seabed 
to the drilling rig, and a higher-density 
drilling fluid from the seabed to the 
bottom of the well. This combination of 
fluids is much more aligned with the 
natural pressures of the formations in 
the subsea well and offers the potential 
to dramatically simplify well designs 
and improve operational safety. The 
equipment developed for dual-gradient 
drilling also allows operators to more 

10

quickly detect and react to pressure 
changes encountered while drilling. 

Also in 2012, following benchmarking 
with industries such as commercial 
aviation, commercial nuclear power 
and the U.S. Navy submarine force, 
we began developing our WELLSAFE 
certification program to bolster 
our efforts to prevent well-control 
incidents. The program addresses 
procedures from the design of wells 
through rig operations and includes 
extensive auditing requirements 
to provide significant assurances that 
well control can be maintained. Our 
WELLSAFE program is scheduled to be 
fully implemented by year-end 2014.

A Culture of Safety
“We have worked hard to build a 
culture of safety and environmental 
stewardship that strives to achieve 
high performance and prevent 
incidents,” said Warner Williams.

In 2012 in the Gulf of Mexico, we safely 
drilled 46 development and delineation 
wells, which establish the productive 
area of oil and gas accumulations. 

Overview
Workforce Safety

Our commitment to the safety of our 
58,000 employees and 200,000 contractors is 
reinforced at all levels of the corporation. 

The rigor of our Operational Excellence Management System delivers continuous 
improvement in our ability to protect the safety and health of our workforce as 
well as the environment everywhere we operate. We have shown significant improve-
ment in workforce safety over the past 10 years as a result of ongoing, focused 
attention on preventing incidents in all Chevron operations. Chevron’s Days Away 
From Work Rate has decreased from 0.29 in 2001 to 0.03 in 2012 (a 90 percent 
reduction). Also, Chevron’s Total Recordable Incident Rate has decreased from an 
average of 0.82 in 2001 to 0.24 in 2012 (a 71 percent reduction).

We took steps in 2012 to improve workforce safety across the company through 
increased oversight of high-risk activities. As part of Chevron’s Managing Safe Work 
process, we implemented five additional safety standards for the following: hazard 
analysis; working in confined spaces; “hot work” locations where ignition of materials 
could occur; environments with “hazardous energy,” such as pressurized liquids, 
thermal energy and kinetic energy; and internal permitting for contractors so that 
proper consideration is given to the risk of a job before it begins. 

By maintaining operational discipline — completing every task the right way, every 
time — we will continue to sustain and improve our workforce safety culture.

For more details, please visit Chevron.com/OEMS.

The Bibiyana gas field is one of the most significant natural gas discoveries in Bangladesh. 
Chevron acquired the field in 2005 and brought it into production in 2007. By 2014, field expansion 
is expected to increase gas plant capacity by 50 percent. 

11

Bangladesh
Journey to Safety

Chevron is the largest foreign investor in Bangladesh, providing employment 
and supplying approximately 50 percent of the natural gas the country consumes. 
To bring our Bibiyana Field into production, we recruited 2,300 Bangladesh 
citizens to work on the project. For people living near our facilities, who were 
accustomed to working in agriculture, this new project marked the beginning of 
a dramatic transformation in safe-work practices and behaviors that extend 
into daily living.

Amid the lush rice paddies and 
150-plus-year-old tea plantations 
typical of northeast Bangladesh lie 
Chevron’s Bibiyana, Jalalabad and 
Moulavi Bazar natural gas fields. 
Generations of farmers have worked 
the rice paddies and other crops 
between seasonal floods. Largely 
because of this agricultural tradition, 
many in the area had little experience 
with how a complex industrial facility 
works. As we began employing 
villagers in 2005 to build the Bibiyana 
Field, the nation’s largest-producing 
natural gas field, we introduced a 

culture of safety that was unfamiliar 
to many local residents. We did 
so to make sure that people and the 
environment were protected.

“In a predominantly agrarian economy 
with no large-scale manufacturing or 
industry, it took time for our workforce 
to develop a culture in which safety 
is above all else,” recalled Kinnesh 
Dalal, Chevron Health, Environment 
and Safety manager in Bangladesh. 
Prospective workers were unaccus-
tomed to wearing protective shoes and 
didn’t understand the need for safety 

Above: Workers at the Bibiyana gas plant receive 
safety awareness training that extends from 
their jobs into their homes and communities.

glasses and fire-retardant clothing. 
To operate the field in a safe and 
responsible manner, he said, “we had 
to foster a cultural paradigm shift 
both inside the plant and in the com-
munities around it.” 

Today in Bangladesh, Chevron has 
amassed 40 million work hours since 
the last Days Away From Work 
injury in 2008, and we have had no 

12

significant environmental incidents, 
fires or spills. “We invested heavily 
in our workforce to build capabilities, 
institutionalized global processes 
focused on operational excellence 
and initiated training programs. 
It has been a many-year journey 
toward achieving zero incidents in 
Bangladesh,” said Dalal. 

Chevron has been operating in 
Bangladesh since 2005, following the 
acquisition of Unocal. We have 
approximately 700 employees and 
more than 2,400 contractors in the 
country. We are working with communi-
ties and the government-owned 
Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Mineral Corp., 
known as Petrobangla, to reduce the 
nation’s reliance on imported energy. 
By 2014, expansion of the Bibiyana 
Field now under way is expected to 
increase gas plant capacity by 50 per-
cent, with new pipelines also being 
constructed to safely deliver this added 
energy capacity.

Driving a New Safety Ethic
“Today’s safe operations are a result 
of creating an understanding of the 
importance of personal and process 
safety, and then providing tools and 
training under Chevron’s supervision,” 

40
million

work hours have been 
logged since the 
last Days Away From 
Work injury

said Geoffrey Strong, Chevron’s 
Bangladesh country manager.

We expanded our training capacity in 
2012 with a new Health, Environment 
and Safety training center for contrac-
tors and community-based workers. 
Since opening in April 2012, more than 
2,000 people have been trained.

“I was like a wide-eyed child at the 
training center, learning things for 
the very first time,” said Abul Kalam, 
a labor team leader with five years 
of experience at Chevron. He said 
that Chevron “is essentially a huge 
classroom. I do not look at Chevron 
as just a place of work; for me 
personally, this is a place of learning.” 

Above: Basir Miah, a member of the Chevron-supported economic development program in his 
village, received training to grow his business. He now owns eight cows and earns a steady income 
raising cattle and selling them at a proﬁ t.

Promoting Sustainable 
Livelihoods

In the rural villages near our natural 
gas fields, our economic development 
programs foster sustainable livelihoods 
to help residents overcome socio-
economic challenges.

Our livelihood programs were initially 
created to assist people who depended 
on 69 acres of land that the govern-
ment acquired to develop the Bibiyana 
gas field in 2006. “Bibiyana was a 
predominantly agrarian economy with 
no industrial presence, low literacy rates 
and inadequate infrastructure,” said 
Naser Ahmed, Chevron Bangladesh’s 
External Affairs manager. “We’ve built 
relationships with local communities 
and nongovernmental organizations 
to implement programs that provide 
lasting socioeconomic opportunities.”

With residents and partners, we helped 
create alternative livelihood programs 
by establishing village development 
organizations (VDOs) comprising 
members selected by the community. 
These programs provide training in 
income-generating skills, such as tailoring, 
poultry farming, goat rearing, engine 
maintenance and business management. 

As of 2012, programs launched in seven 
villages near the Bibiyana and Moulavi 
Bazar gas fields provide solar panels and 
energy-efficient stoves to reduce home-
lighting and fuel costs. The savings are 
invested in income-generating enterprises 
and a savings fund maintained by the 
VDO. Chevron contributes to a seed-fund, 
to which VDO members add their savings. 
Members draw upon the fund to build 
their small and medium-size enterprises. 

Today more than 100 VDOs are benefiting 
nearly 4,000 families living near our three 
major gas fields. Ojud Miah completed 
a Chevron-funded training course and 
received a microloan for his duck breeding 
enterprise. “I earned enough to build a 
concrete house for my family and pay for 
my younger sister’s wedding. I completed 
a paraveterinary training course through 
my VDO, and now earn a steady income. 
After taking care of household expenses 
and my children’s schooling, I am able 
to set aside 10 percent in savings every 
day. My journey has just begun.”

13

More than 

2,000 
people

have been trained in 
Chevron’s new Health, 
Environment and 
Safety training center

Employees and contractors are 
required to undergo our Fitness for 
Duty process, which identifies the 
circumstances under which workers 
are able to safely perform essential 
physical, psychological and cognitive 
job requirements without risk to self, 
others or the environment. Trainers 
make sure new employees under-
stand our Operational Excellence 
Management System, the framework 
Chevron uses to manage process 
safety, health and personal safety, the 
environment, reliability, and efficiency. 
Because the literacy rate in Bangladesh 
is approximately 56 percent, we 
adapted the way we teach to ensure 
understanding, using repetition, 
memorization, visual aids and addi-
tional field-testing. Six-month-long 
mentoring programs were established 
for many positions. 

Every morning, employees hold a “tool 
box” meeting to review safety proce-
dures for the tasks being performed 
that day. The type of work ranges from 
crane operation to leveling an access 
road. Employees are reminded of 
stop-work authority, which encourages 
any employee or contractor to stop 
work when an unsafe condition or act 
is recognized.

In 2012, the Muchai compression 
project, which added pipeline capacity 
to transport natural gas from our three 
fields, involved more than 2.6 million 
work hours and was completed with no 
recordable incidents.

Improving Contractor Safety
“We want to use a local workforce and 
are committed to working with local 

14

companies, some of which do not have 
strong safety performance,” said 
Zulfikar Ahmed Chowdhury, Chevron 
field manager for community engage-
ment. “We help contractor companies 
through extensive safety training 
so that they can be hired.” 

Chevron enlisted 111 vendors and 
suppliers directly from the local com-
munity. These contractors supply labor 
and materials for minor civil, construc-
tion and mechanical work. We work 
with our contractors to develop risk 
mitigation plans and administer safety 
management systems. Contractor 
safety performance has improved 
because of intense Chevron oversight 
and structured, continual training and 
mentoring. 

said Strong. “Having an effective and 
personal relationship with the commu-
nity helps us to address critical socio-
economic challenges that benefit both 
our operations and our neighbors.” 

We extend concepts and benefits 
of our safety culture into communities. 
For example, because motor vehicle 
safety is the single largest safety risk 
outside our facilities, with 85 deaths 
for every 10,000 registered motor 
vehicles in Bangladesh, we developed a 
comprehensive driver safety program, 
including initiatives to raise awareness 
in the community. We continue to 
engage the community on various 
initiatives, including earthquake pre-
paredness and first-aid training for 
health care workers.

“When we first started in 2005, things 
were not very easy for us as we had no 
experience working for a company that 
had such high expectations for safety 
performance. We had to work very hard 
to reach the standard set by Chevron,” 
said Md. Boyet Ullah, proprietor of 
Zakaria Enterprise, which has been 
supplying laborers and materials. 

Employees are transferring what they 
learn from Chevron to their homes and 
into the community. “My friends say 
I’ve completely transformed and have 
influenced those around me,” Abul 
Kalam said. “On my way home from 
work every day, if I see something 
being done in an unsafe way, I point it 
out to people, and they stop and listen.”

Now, after eight years with Chevron, 
onsite Health, Environment and Safety 
representative Saleh Ahmed said he 
tells his children the safety stories 
he learns at work. “They listen to me 
because they want their father to 
return home to them safe and sound 
every day. And as their father, I tell 
these stories because I want them to 
grow up safe and protect themselves 
from life’s many mishaps.” 

Safety, he added, ultimately is a system 
of rules, processes and procedures 
that only work “if you believe in them 
from the core of your being. Before 
working here, there was a time when 
I would get the odd minor injury here 
and there; but working for Chevron 
in the past five or six years, I have not 
had so much as a scratch.” 

Firuz Miah, a contractor working 
with the facilities engineering team, 
said, “Even if I go elsewhere, whatever 
I have learned here will benefit me.”

Extending Safety Into the Community
When building our Bibiyana gas 
plant in 2007, we implemented our 
Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment process to identify 
and minimize potential project impacts, 
and we conducted comprehensive 
community engagement programs. 
For example, after learning that the 
community extensively used a narrow, 
winding main supply road, we imple-
mented a safety program along the 
route. In addition to installing extensive 
road signage, we implemented a 
road safety campaign for area resi-
dents, including training 180 local 
drivers, distributing safety booklets 
and providing reflectors for nonmotor-
ized vehicles.

“Community engagement is an 
essential part of our business here,” 

Overview
Environmental Stewardship

Our environmental stewardship efforts focus on 
minimizing our environmental footprint, from initial 
exploration through the life of an asset. 

Wherever we operate, our environmental stewardship process, part of our Operational 
Excellence Management System (OEMS), helps us manage activities that have the 
potential to affect the environment. Consistent with ISO 14001, we defined seven types 
of environmental activities, or “aspects,” that we address:

•  Accidental Releases Management
•  Air Emissions Management
•  Natural Resources Management
•   Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Management

•  Legacy Sites Management
•  Waste Management
•  Wastewater Management

Through the entire life cycle of a project — from planning and construction through 
operation and decommissioning — we review and adapt our environmental stewardship 
efforts annually as we reassess potential environmental risks associated with 
our activities.

Our Upstream operations adopted uniform standards and operating practices, beyond 
applicable legal requirements in some instances, to minimize environmental impacts 
from offshore drilling fluids and cuttings (minerals and other materials removed from a 
borehole), associated-gas flaring and venting, air emissions, produced water, and waste. 

Based on the review of potential impacts and existing controls, operations are required 
to identify improvement opportunities and incorporate those that are the highest 
priority into their business plans. This ongoing review and identification of next steps is 
the continual improvement that is a core component of our OEMS and helps drive 
our business units to higher levels of environmental performance.

For more about environmental stewardship, please visit Chevron.com/Environment.

Near the Tengiz Field in western Kazakhstan, 
David Connell, former Second Generation 
Plant site manager, visits the Sarkamys village 
and Keneral Farms, where some people still 
herd camels, goats and horses. Other residents 
have found technical and manufacturing jobs 
with Tengizchevroil.

15

Kazakhstan
Driving Environmental Progress

Chevron is Kazakhstan’s largest private oil producer, holding important stakes 
in the nation’s two biggest oil-producing projects — the Tengiz and Karachaganak 
fields. We are a 50 percent partner in the Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture, 
which operates the Tengiz Field. Through significant investments and environmental 
standards, TCO’s workforce is continually improving environmental performance.

As Tengizchevroil employee Tatyana 
Afanaseva flew by helicopter over 
the oil and gas fields that rise from the 
Caspian Sea’s northwest shore, she 
recalled how the panorama below has 
changed over the past two decades. 

“In the early 1990s, you saw gas 
released and burned from flare stacks 
during oil production. There were also 
many large, square yellow sulfur 
pads created as a byproduct of the oil 
production process,” said Afanaseva, 
chief technologist of TCO’s Process 
Engineering department. “Today, 
we observe a very different picture.”

The TCO joint venture was established 
in 1993 between Chevron, the newly 
independent Republic of Kazakhstan 
and other partners to produce oil in the 
western part of the country. TCO’s 
Tengiz Field is one of the world’s 
deepest developed oil fields and, along 
with the smaller Korolev Field, covers 
970 square miles (2,500 sq km). 
Afanaseva is one of nearly 3,200 
Kazakhstani citizens who make up 
86 percent of TCO’s workforce.

Working with the government and 
community, the joint venture has 
invested $2.5 billion since 2000 on 
projects that resulted in a reduction 

Above: Khairliyev Alibek is a unit operator at the 
Tengiz Field’s Second Generation Plant. The plant 
has allowed TCO to increase production and, 
through the use of advanced technology, improve 
environmental protection.

of TCO’s environmental impacts, such 
as projects to eliminate continuous 
flaring, reduce sulfur storage, and 
conserve and treat water.

Extinguishing Continuous Flares
When TCO assumed control of the 
Tengiz Field in 1993, the field’s ongoing 
operations included the continuous 
flaring of natural gas. 

16

sulfur that was removed during oil and 
gas production was accumulated on 
large, open concrete pads. The scale of 
the pads led to the public’s perception 
that there were environmental and 
health impacts associated with sulfur 
handling and removal.

“Through educational programs and 
independent health studies, TCO 
has been working for years with 
government entities and communities 
to correct misperceptions about 
the storage of sulfur on pads in the 
open air,” said Dastem Zhassanov, 
Regulatory Affairs coordinator for TCO. 

In 2006, TCO, the Ministry of Oil and 
Gas, and the Ministry of Environmental 
Protection created the Interdepart-
mental Coordination Council (ICC) 
to study issues related to sulfur 
storage and identify methods to 
improve its management. The study 
was the first of its kind in Kazakhstan 
and included local government, the 
national oil and gas company, and 
independent research institutes from 
Russia and Canada. 

TCO has invested 

$2.5
billion 

since 2000 on projects 
that reduced its 
environmental impacts

“Today, the only flaring remaining in 
TCO’s operations is intermittent flaring 
related to maintenance and repairs, 
or when necessary for safety,” said 
Nurlan Kaliev, deputy director for 
major capital projects. As TCO began 
to increase its oil production, the 
joint venture initiated a series of major 
capital projects from 2000 to 2012 
that ultimately eliminated continuous 
flaring and reduced its overall flaring 
volumes by 92 percent. 

Recognizing the success of TCO’s 
efforts to reduce flaring, the Global 
Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership, 
a public-private partnership launched 
by the World Bank in 2002, awarded 
TCO the Excellence in Flaring Reduc-
tion Award at its 2012 conference 
in London. 

“Flaring reduction minimizes 
environmental impacts. Our process 
improvements also allow us to capture 
gas that would otherwise be flared 
and to commercialize it to meet 
the demand for affordable energy,” 
said Mike Jennings, TCO’s general 
manager for Operational Excellence 
and Health, Environment and Safety.

Reducing Sulfur Inventory
Tengiz crude oil contains some of the 
highest concentrations of sulfur in 
the world. As a result, managing the 
large amounts of sulfur generated 
during oil and gas processing is a key 
operational issue for TCO. Historically, 

Understanding Flaring

Flaring is the burning of natural gas in 
an open flame into the air. When crude oil 
is brought to the surface in the produc-
tion process, gas associated with the oil 
rises with it. In locations where there is no 
market for the gas, a common historical 
practice has been to flare the gas so that 
it does not pose a hazard to workers or 
residents near the operations. Gas travels 
up tall metal pipes called flare stacks to 
the nozzle or burner tip located at the 
top. A pilot light or electronic igniter then 
ignites the gas. 

The World Bank reported a 9 percent 
reduction in flaring globally in 2010 at a 
time of increasing oil and gas production. 
In 2011, the World Bank estimated that 
total emissions from gas flaring repre-
sented approximately 1.2 percent of global 
CO2 emissions. Efforts such as the Global 
Gas Flaring Reduction (GGFR) Partnership, 
a public-private partnership launched 
by the World Bank in 2002 and in which 
Chevron has been an active participant, 
are having a positive impact.

Chevron has adopted a routine-flaring 
reduction standard that aligns with the 
World Bank’s GGFR voluntary standard. 
This standard requires, where feasible, 
that the majority of existing routine 
flaring of associated gas be eliminated 
and that all new capital projects be 
designed and operated without continuous 
routine flaring. 

We have invested billions of dollars in 
infrastructure projects in Angola, 
Kazakhstan, Nigeria and elsewhere to 
eliminate routine flaring and direct the 
natural gas to productive economic 
use. Since 2003, we have reduced the 
volume of gas we flare and vent in 
Chevron’s Upstream operations by 41 per-
cent, as defined by our flaring and venting 
environmental-performance standard. 
We have simultaneously reduced green-
house gas emissions from flaring and 
venting by 20 percent, based on the equity 
share of all Chevron’s global interests.

Left: At a Tengiz Field processing unit, sour 
gas is separated from crude oil. Approximately 
one-third of the gas produced is reinjected to 
maintain pressure in the reservoir and eventually 
help recover more oil.

17

of fresh water is critical to many 
industries, and the oil and gas industry 
is no exception. Global population 
growth and an increasing demand for 
fresh water are pressuring industry to 
achieve more sustainable operations 
and water use,” said Jan Slange 
of Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan, an 
engineering firm that works with 
TCO on water conservation.

Fresh water is supplied to TCO by pipe-
lines from Kazakhstan’s Kigach River, 
which is a tributary of the Volga River. 
The water traverses more than 310 miles 
(500 km) of an industrialized region 
of western Kazakhstan before arriving 
at Tengiz. TCO’s reliance on a single 
source of water was identified as a 
potential supply risk several years ago. 

TCO is addressing this risk by con-
serving fresh water through reuse and 
recycling. This strategy is part of a 
water management plan that includes 
two facilities that are expected to 
reduce the volume of water required 
from the Kigach River by about 25 per-
cent of the current volume. The first 
facility, to be completed in 2013, will 
treat an average of 1.6 million gallons 
per day of wastewater generated by 
TCO’s employee and contractor living 
facilities. The second facility will recycle 
water used for industrial purposes at 
TCO’s plants. When completed in 
2014, the facility is expected to yield 
950,000 gallons per day of recycled 
water for use at the Tengiz plant. 

“Water treatment and recycling facil-
ities are examples of the sustained 
progress to protect and conserve natu-
ral resources,” said Nick Thomas, the 
treatment facility’s project manager. 
“TCO looked at its water use and made 
changes that are mutually beneficial to 
its business and the environment.” 

  Listen to TCO’s Ulzhan Shonataeva describe 

her development assignment at Chevron in 
California at Chevron.com/CR2012/TCO.

Above: In addition to crude oil, Tengizchevroil produces liqueﬁ ed petroleum gas, dry gas and four 
forms of sulfur (liquid, granulated, ﬂ aked and blocked). A natural resource for Kazakhstan, sulfur is a 
stable, nontoxic solid that is important to animal and plant life.

TCO has achieved a 

68% 
reduction

in its sulfur inventory 
since 2005 

“The study showed that sulfur pads in 
Tengiz had no impact on the nearest 
community and no measurable impact 
on groundwater, air or soil,” said 
Rzabek Artygaliev, TCO’s general 
manager for Policy, Government and 
Public Affairs. The results were 
published and presented at a public 
hearing in 2007. 

While this study showed no measurable 
impacts related to TCO’s activity, the 
ICC is using the results to inform the 

18

development of technical regulations 
and industry standards for better sulfur 
handling and storage. Upon comple-
tion, these will be presented to the 
Republic of Kazakhstan for review and 
implementation as national standards.

As part of its own sulfur management 
program, TCO has reduced the volume 
of sulfur stored on open-air pads by 
more than two-thirds from peak 
quantities in 2005. To shrink its sulfur 
inventory, TCO processes sulfur into 
a number of marketable products. 
As a result of these efforts, by the end 
of 2012, TCO had reduced its sulfur 
inventory to approximately 2.9 million 
tons, down from a peak volume of 
9 million tons. By 2015, TCO expects 
to have reduced its sulfur inventory 
by 95 percent.

Conserving and Treating Water
TCO, like similar operations throughout 
the world, requires access to viable 
quantities and qualities of water in 
order to operate. “The availability 

Overview
Biodiversity

We believe that respecting the environment and 
biodiversity can be compatible with providing energy. 

The protective measures we take are based on our awareness of the value of 
the natural world and the importance of conserving the rich variety of life on Earth, 
its ecosystems, species and the ecological processes that support them. 

Chevron’s Biodiversity Statement expresses our commitment to incorporating 
biodiversity considerations into the evaluations and decisions regarding our capital 
projects. Our employees work to protect habitats near our operations and share 
their best practices through the Chevron Biodiversity Network.

Our Operational Excellence Management System includes our Environmental, 
Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process, which requires all new major 
capital projects to be evaluated in order for us to understand potential negative 
impacts and avoid, minimize and mitigate them where possible. The ESHIA process 
begins early in our planning and includes stakeholder engagement throughout 
the life of a project.

Because we often operate near ecologically sensitive areas, under the ESHIA process, 
we conduct a baseline assessment of existing environmental conditions, such as the 
presence of habitats or fishing grounds, near our capital projects.

The assessment results are incorporated into project planning to make positive 
contributions to biodiversity conservation and facilitate communication with regulatory 
agencies and our partners.

For more details, please visit Chevron.com/Biodiversity.

Chevron employees in Angola conduct annual sea turtle surveys, which include night monitoring, 
shown here, to assess population demographics and nesting frequency.

19

Angola
Conservation Through Collaboration

For more than 75 years, Chevron has played a major role in Angola’s energy 
sector. Whether operating during periods of stability or unrest, we have 
been contributing to the growth and prosperity of the country and its people. 
Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd., Chevron’s wholly owned subsidiary, is the country’s 
largest foreign oil-industry employer. Our offshore operations provide energy 
while conserving ecosystems and supporting the livelihoods of fishermen.

Chevron environmental supervisor 
Margarida Peliganga is part of a team 
that protects endangered turtles that 
come ashore to breed, dig sandy nests 
and lay their eggs on the beaches 
at Chevron’s Malongo oil production 
facilities near Cabinda, Angola.

“It’s inspiring to witness nature at work, 
starting with the adult turtles coming 
ashore and later seeing hundreds of 
hatchlings scamper toward the ocean 
for the first time,” said Peliganga. 

The sea turtle conservation program 
helps protect the endangered olive 

ridley sea turtle from poachers, 
dogs, flooding and erosion that can 
disrupt the turtles’ habitat. Annual 
counts of nesting turtles contribute 
to international research databases 
and environmental impact assess-
ments. Since the monitoring project 
began nine years ago, program 
partners have documented approxi-
mately 1,400 nests and more than 
48,900 hatchlings. Sea turtle monitors 
tagged 157 turtles for tracking.

The program is one example of 
Chevron’s environmental steward-
ship efforts in Angola. Through 

Above: Humpback whales are often seen off-
shore Angola when the species visits western 
Africa for mating and calving.

conservation partnerships and collabo-
ration, we implemented programs to 
manage our environmental footprint, 
such as locating facilities to safeguard 
sensitive habitats, protecting marine 
mammals through cooperative science 
and management, and reducing 
offshore flaring during the oil produc-
tion process.

20

Angola LNG Protects Habitats
Chevron has a 36.4 percent interest in 
Angola LNG Ltd., a company that owns 
an onshore development to liquefy and 
export natural gas at the mouth of the 
Congo River Basin. When the location 
of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
facility was being determined, the 
Angola LNG joint venture used 
Chevron’s Environmental, Social and 
Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) 
process to understand the area’s 
environmental and social conditions. 

Sheryl Maruca, senior scientist and 
former Health, Environment and Safety 
manager for the Angola LNG project, 
said the ESHIA results helped to 
identify a proposed site location that 
would minimize potential impacts to 
habitats, the local community and 

48,900 
hatchlings

have been documented 
since sea turtle 
monitoring began 
nine years ago

Above: Near Chevron operations, a sea turtle 
awareness campaign was initiated within the 
workforce and local communities. Researchers 
and their assistants from local villages regularly 
patrol the beach and protect nests on the 
Atlantic coastline. Sea turtles are identiﬁ ed 
and tagged in order to study their migratory 
paths and biological cycles.

livelihoods. “The assessment identified 
mangrove areas and other sensitive 
habitats, culturally important sites, 
and areas used for farming,” she said. 
“This led to a proposed plant site 
on the north side of an existing service 
and supply base for offshore fields.” 

After removing vegetation and 
unexploded ordnance from past 
conflicts, we discovered olive ridley 
turtles nesting on the north side of the 
site. Through Chevron, Angola LNG 
partnered with the Wildlife Conserva-
tion Society (WCS) to develop an 
areawide biodiversity action plan. 
This plan included a community-based 
monitoring and conservation effort 
to safeguard the turtles and their 
nests, as well as community education 
on the importance of preserving the 
marine turtle population. After two 
years, Angola LNG staff took responsi-
bility for the program and today 
continue to manage more than 9 miles 
(14 km) of coastline.

Monitoring Marine Mammals
Marine animals, including coastal 
dolphins, West African manatees, 
offshore cetaceans and sea turtles, 
are increasingly under threat 
from activities such as overfishing 
and vessel traffic. 

As we explore for energy resources 
along Angola’s coast, we partner 
with local fishermen and biologists to 
monitor marine mammals during 
seismic operations and reduce 
potential disturbance from the sound 
waves used to detect oil and gas 
formations in the rock deep beneath 
the ocean floor. This monitoring 
involves continually watching for 
marine animals before and during 
seismic operations. The program also 
establishes an exclusion zone where 
operations are suspended when marine 
animals are spotted until they swim 
out of range. Chevron adheres to the 
Joint Nature Conservation Committee 
guidelines for minimizing the risk 

Malongo Laboratory 
Gets Results

At our Malongo laboratory, 63 Angolan 
technicians test thousands of samples 
monthly to help protect water quality and 
ensure the integrity of our operations 
and the quality of our products.

Each morning, samples of produced water 
from our onshore and offshore facilities 
are analyzed to make sure they are within 
our specifications and regulatory limits. 

Laboratory technicians test and certify 
Chevron products that are sold in 
Angola, such as crude oil and liquefied 
petroleum gas, as well as products 
used in our operations, such as jet fuel, 
diesel and kerosene. 

The lab also is equipped to identify the 
source of crude oil spilled in water based 
on its “fingerprint.” Because each type 
of oil is unique, the fingerprinting tech-
nique uses biomarkers to determine the 
oil’s characteristics. A database helps 
match the oil to its source. Results are 
shared with the Ministry of Environment 
and the Ministry of Petroleum and then 
become public.

of injury and disturbance to marine 
mammals from seismic surveys. 

In 2008, Chevron partnered with 
WCS to introduce passive acoustic 
monitoring in the south Atlantic Ocean 
to assess humpback whale breeding 
activity. This surveying technique 
resulted in the first complete documen-
tation of the full migratory timing 
and seasonal presence of humpback 
whales that spend their winters off the 
Angolan coast. During this period, 
WCS was also able to document the 
presence of blue whales through 
recordings of their species-specific 
vocalizations. These recordings 
provided the first modern evidence of 
this endangered species off Angola 
since the 1970s. 

Chevron is also collaborating with 
WCS to develop a more comprehensive 
assessment of marine mammals 

21

a program to strengthen the capa-
bilities of small-scale fishermen to 
increase the amount of their catch. 
The program is conducted in partner-
ship with the Angolan Ministry of 
Fisheries and World Vision Interna-
tional, a global humanitarian organiza-
tion working to alleviate poverty. 
More than 3,000 fishermen and fish 
traders from Cabinda Province 
received training, tools and equipment. 
Another program helps fishermen 
reduce operating costs through access 
to credit, equipment and supplies. 
So far, 113 fishermen and 474 fish 
traders received microloans.

“We collaborated with Chevron and 
its partners to help protect fishermen’s 
rights to sustainable livelihoods. 
We also worked to design and fund 
programs that allow fishermen to 
improve deep-sea fishing techniques 
and maintain equipment,” said 
Clemente de Oliveira Paulo of World 
Vision. “These projects will help 
Angolans now and in the future.”

Historically, local fishermen have at 
times raised concerns about water 
quality and reduced fish levels. 

“We recognize that perceived negative 
impacts to fish will translate to a high 
level of concern from communities and 
regulators,” said Daniel Joao, Health, 
Environment and Safety supervisor for 
Cabinda operations. 

Since 2006, we have been assessing 
water quality and fish health in Cabinda 
to respond to community concerns. 
The program involves monitoring 
through the collection of water and 
sediment samples and the analysis 
of fish tissue. The analysis, conducted 
by an independent U.S. laboratory, 
assesses whether trace contaminants 
related to oil and gas operations pose 
a concern for human consumption or 
for the food chain. The analysis has 
found no such concern or link. 

Above: A team of employees and wildlife advisors from the Angola liqueﬁ ed natural gas joint venture 
free a beached humpback whale at the mouth of the Congo River. The whale swam off into the 
ocean safe and unharmed. The ongoing protection of wildlife is the result of our commitment to 
preserve the biodiversity of the areas in which we operate.

farther north along the Atlantic coast-
line, where data on marine mammals 
are limited. Through these and other 
related studies, Chevron is helping 
to make available new information 
on vulnerable species in poorly 
researched areas. 

“Establishing baseline information 
in this region will be valuable as 
Chevron looks to improve mitigation 
and monitoring based on scientific 
information. More broadly, the infor-
mation on marine mammals will be 
helpful for improving our understand-
ing of how important these areas 
are for whales and dolphins,” said 
Howard Rosenbaum, Ph.D., director 
of WCS’s Ocean Giants Program.

Reducing and Eliminating Flaring 
To minimize our environmental 
footprint, we have been eliminating 
routine flaring of natural gas at several 
offshore oil and gas production fields. 
The Cabinda gas plant became fully 
operational in 2010 and reduced 
onshore flaring by 7 million cubic feet 
per day (mmcf/d). At the Chevron-
operated Block 0 concession offshore 
Cabinda, where we have a 39.2 percent 
interest, a gas management project 

22

completed in 2011 reduced flaring by 
70 mmcf/d of natural gas. The project 
made modifications to flare and 
relief systems on 14 platforms in both 
the Takula and Malongo fields. 

With startup scheduled in 2013, the 
$10 billion Angola LNG project will 
capture and market offshore gas that 
is currently flared from producing 
blocks in Angola north and south of the 
Congo River Canyon. The Angola LNG 
plant is expected to receive 1 billion cf/d 
of natural gas for export and domestic 
use from a new 264-mile (425-km) 
network of offshore and onshore pipe-
lines connected to areas that include 
the Chevron-operated Blocks 0 and 14 
offshore Angola. Through Chevron’s 
ESHIA process, the local Soyo commu-
nity was engaged to help identify 
nonintrusive pipeline routes.

By 2015, a $2 billion investment 
at our North and South Nemba fields 
off the Cabinda coast includes plans 
to inject gas for enhanced oil recovery 
and to eliminate routine flaring. 

Supporting Livelihoods 
Fishing is a primary means of subsist-
ence in Cabinda. In 2009, we launched 

Overview
Economic Development

We believe that enhancing economic conditions 
improves the quality of life for people in the communities 
near our operations. 

Working with governments, development agencies, research institutions and other non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), we establish programs that engage the local workforce, 
advance vocational training, and support local small businesses and suppliers. 

LOCAL WORKFORCE — In Australia, the Gorgon and Wheatstone natural gas projects, 

at peak construction, will generate as many as 16,500 jobs.

VOCATIONAL TRAINING — In Indonesia, we built and sponsored two polytechnic 
schools to train Indonesian students for jobs in the industrial sector. More than 1,100 students 
have graduated from Politeknik Caltex Riau, the province’s first polytechnic university. 
In 2012, the second class of students graduated from Politeknik Aceh, bringing the total 
number of graduates at that school to 314.

SMALL BUSINESS AND SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT — In 2012, Chevron spent more 

than $60 billion on goods and services around the globe. We are committed to supporting 
economic growth by providing contracts and purchase orders associated with our develop-
ment projects to local businesses. 

We also pursue thought leadership in this arena. In 2011, Chevron and the Center for Strategic 
and International Studies (CSIS) launched the Project on U.S. Leadership in Development, 
which is designed to generate innovative thinking on how U.S. public and private sectors can 
partner with NGOs and foreign governments to advance international economic and commu-
nity development. Our partnership with CSIS includes the Chevron Forum on Development, 
a public dialogue on pioneering ideas and approaches to economic development, with a 
special focus on the business sector.

For more details, please visit Chevron.com/EconomicDevelopment.

Chevron Australia’s Mika Thuijs and Jim Rentschler 
review plans at the Wheatstone Project site in 
Western Australia. The project is expected to deliver 
energy, jobs and economic benefits for decades.

23

 
Australia
Contributing to Economic Growth

Chevron’s $29 billion Wheatstone natural gas project is transforming the remote 
coastal community of Onslow in Western Australia, bringing new residents and 
investment in the town’s infrastructure and services. Our partnerships with 
the community, various levels of government and local suppliers will help shape 
the town’s future as we develop vast natural gas resources offshore.

The remote town of Onslow is located 
in the Pilbara region on Australia’s 
northwestern coast, more than 
800 miles (1,287 km) from Western 
Australia’s capital city of Perth. 
Onslow’s population usually peaks 
at approximately 900, when winter 
visitors come to escape the colder 
southern climates.

“Onslow is off the beaten track,” said 
Sean Clarke, a Chevron contractor 
who has lived and worked in the 
region for 15 years. “Amenities here 
are limited; and the area outside of 
town is barren, but beautiful.”

24

It is here that Chevron has become 
part of a fundamental transformation. 
The Wheatstone Project will extract 
natural gas to fuel growth and 
promote energy security in Australia 
and beyond. The project includes 
the country’s largest offshore gas 
processing platform and is expected 
to increase domestic gas supplies 
by 20 percent, providing an important 
new energy source for consumers 
in Western Australia. It will also add 
nearly 9 million tons of liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) annually to the 
rapidly developing Asian market. 

Since the project began, Chevron 
has been working with an array 

Above: Chevron is supporting the community’s 
vision of Onslow being a thriving place in which 
to live and work.

of stakeholders to promote responsible 
development. “We recognize our 
responsibility to the Onslow commu-
nity, and we are working with our 
partners to maintain safe and environ-
mentally responsible operations,” 
said Eric Dunning, general manager 
of the Wheatstone Project.

Continuing a History 
of Responsible Operations
The Wheatstone Project is emerging at 
Ashburton North, just 7.5 miles (12 km) 

west of Onslow, and continues
Chevron’s longstanding ties to Australia. 

In 1941, we began marketing petroleum 
products in the country and have been 
developing oil and gas there since the 
1950s. Our nearly 50-year track record 
of producing oil on Barrow Island, 
31 miles (50 km) offshore Western 
Australia, shows our commitment to 
responsible development. Barrow 
Island is a Class A nature reserve, the 
most highly protected type of public 
land in Western Australia.

“Chevron has demonstrated that 
with proper management, development 
and conservation can coexist,” said 
Roy Krzywosinski, managing director 
of Chevron Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Just over three years ago, Chevron 
began developing Gorgon, the world’s 
largest natural gas project. The vast 
natural gas resources lie 43.5 miles 
(70 km) northwest of Barrow Island. 
At peak construction, Gorgon will 
provide direct and indirect employ-
ment for approximately 10,000 people.

Offering Economic Opportunity 
Similarly to Gorgon, the Wheatstone 
Project is expected to create as 
many as 6,500 direct and indirect 
jobs, according to independent 
estimates, 3,500 of which will be 
construction jobs. 

“Wheatstone is creating enormous 
employment and industry participation 
opportunities for the state and trans-
forming Onslow, as well as cementing 
Western Australia’s status as a 
major global energy provider,” said 
Western Australian Premier and State 
Development Minister Colin Barnett.

Thousands of jobs are being offered 
through the project’s contractors, from 
carpenters and crane operators to 
scaffolders and riggers. Many of these 
opportunities include training and 
apprenticeship programs. 

“We will continue to work closely with 
government and other stakeholders to 
enhance regional employment and 
training, indigenous employment, and 
opportunities for small business to 
participate in the project,” said Dunning.

Since construction began, many local 
companies have grown. Already, we’ve 
committed more than $8 billion in 
contracts and purchases to Australian 
businesses. The Onslow-based civil 
engineering construction company 
NTC Contracting has grown from 40 to 
almost 70 employees, largely because 
of work for Wheatstone. 

Another Pilbara company benefiting 
from the project is Raw Hire, owned 
and operated by Sean and Lisa Clarke. 
The company supplies vehicles to meet 
Chevron’s specialized needs. 

Chevron is providing 

more than 
$250 million

toward community 
infrastructure projects 
in Onslow

“We started the company in 1998 with 
one vehicle. It’s been a process of 
doubling our fleet every year, and there 
are no signs we’ll be slowing down,” 
said Sean Clarke. Today, Raw Hire has 
a staff of 40 and more than 1,300 
vehicles in its fleet of four-wheel-
drive trucks, buses and water carts. 
The company provided 40 vehicles for 
Wheatstone, with more planned 
for delivery.

Contributing to Onslow’s Growth
Chevron began implementing its 
Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process 

Above: Lara Shur, Telethon Speech and Hearing 
Centre manager of Audiology Services, treats a 
young Pilbara patient.

Improving Hearing

Chevron is partnering with Telethon 
Speech and Hearing Centre for Children to 
offer a mobile “Earbus” clinic in the Pilbara 
region of Western Australia, a program 
that screens infants to 12-year-olds for 
middle-ear health and basic hearing. 

Hearing impairment in Australia affects 
one in six citizens. Aboriginal Australians 
experience ear disease and associated 
hearing loss at up to 10 times the rate of 
other Australians, according to a 2010 
government study. Research conducted in 
2012 in the western Pilbara region found 
that 60 percent of the 600 Aboriginal 
children given a hearing test were unable 
to pass. 

“Early intervention in Aboriginal child 
health — particularly when there is a 
threat of hearing damage — can assist with 
school retention, education and training, 
potentially helping create life-changing 
outcomes for children with middle-ear 
infections,” said Peter Fairclough, Chevron 
Australia general manager of Policy, 
Government and Public Affairs. 

Today, the Pilbara program is screening 
approximately 720 children annually, 
which represents about 48 percent of the 
indigenous child population in the area. 
Children with confirmed problems are 
referred to the Earbus general practitioner. 

Telethon Speech and Hearing Centre 
former CEO Paul Higginbotham added, 
“Chevron’s investment in the future 
of Aboriginal children has allowed us to 
deliver ear health services and support 
into the region with confidence.”

25

for Wheatstone in 2009. The ESHIA 
process is Chevron’s corporate require-
ment for all new major capital projects. 
It is used to identify potentially 
significant negative impacts and to 
develop plans for avoiding, minimizing 
and mitigating them. Stakeholder 
engagement throughout the life of a 
project is central to the ESHIA process.

From March 2009 through March 2010, 
we consulted more than 340 stake-
holders about aspects of the community 
and its needs. We continue to main-
tain regular communication with 
Onslow residents.

The Wheatstone 
Project is expected to 
create as many as

6,500

direct and indirect jobs

Above: Jamie Paterson works on the 
Wheatstone LNG project’s desalinated-water 
pipeline. Seawater is used for construction 
activities and to supply the desalination plant, 
which provides potable water for the work-
force. More than 1,200 workers are now onsite 
building the project’s basic infrastructure.

26

and business opportunities for 
Aboriginal people. 

A range of Thalanyji businesses, 
from pipe laying to security and site 
services, have been awarded sub-
contracts on the Wheatstone Project, 
which has generated further local 
job and training opportunities.

“Our commitment to Aboriginal 
employment and partnerships has 
resulted in tangible outcomes, 
such as additional health workers in 
the region, and Aboriginal trainees 
and apprentices joining our opera-
tions,” said Krzywosinski. 

In September 2011, six Onslow resi-
dents, including five Aboriginal 
students, completed a work prepara-
tion program at the local job training 
center and have since begun work 
on the Wheatstone Project. Student 
James Tittums said he became 
involved in the training program to 
further his work options in town. 

“I wanted a good local job in Onslow,” 
he said. “I’ve secured this concreting 
job now on the Wheatstone Project, 
so my skills will be put to good use. 
But, I also want to continue training 
while on the job.”

Chevron is also supporting educational 
programs in Onslow that improve 
student retention and increase literacy 
and math skills.

“The Wheatstone Project has a life 
span of more than 40 years, and 
we invest in partnerships with an aim 
of delivering lasting outcomes for 
the community,” Krzywosinski said. 

  Meet one of our local suppliers in 
Australia at Chevron.com/CR2012/Australia.

After this extensive engagement 
process, Chevron’s Wheatstone Project 
and the Western Australian state 
government agreed that Chevron 
would provide more than $250 million 
toward community infrastructure 
projects, including upgrading Onslow’s 
roads, airport, power grid and water 
system as well as its health clinics, 
schools and recreational facilities. 
Additional plans include funding new 
emergency service facilities, a desalina-
tion plant to improve the local water 
supply and a new gas-fired power plant.

Chevron has also committed $20 million 
to the Onslow Community Development 
Fund, which received an additional 
$10 million state government contribu-
tion. The fund will be used to improve 
existing infrastructure and sporting 
and youth facilities, in support of the 
community’s vision for Onslow. 

Minister for Regional Development 
Brendan Grylls said the Onslow 
infrastructure improvements are vital 
to address the needs that will come 
from the projected population growth. 
“This doesn’t mean just water and 
power — the community needs recrea-
tional facilities, services and amenities 
that make a place enjoyable to live 
in,” said Grylls. “We want the people 
who move to Onslow to have a 
fantastic lifestyle, and the Onslow 
Community Development Fund will 
play a big part in achieving this.”

Longtime Onslow resident Peta Wilson 
believes the changes to Onslow during 
the next five years will improve the 
community. “I see Onslow becoming a 
good place for families, better than it 
ever was before,” she said.

Enhancing Community Partnerships 
In 2010, Chevron reached an agree-
ment with the Thalanyji, the traditional 
landowners who live in the Onslow 
area. The agreement is a road map 
for how Wheatstone can create 
educational, employment, contracting 

Overview
Social Investment

We have learned through decades of experience 
that Chevron’s business success is deeply linked to 
society’s progress.

To promote social progress, we cultivate partnerships focused on health, education and 
economic development. All three are building blocks for improving the quality of life in 
communities. Since 2006, we have invested nearly $1.2 billion in more than 100 countries 
around the world to fund initiatives that invigorate and foster economic growth in local 
communities. In 2012, we invested more than $270 million in these programs.

We work with local and national governments, nongovernmental organizations and com-
munity partners to establish trusting and mutually beneficial relationships. Taking time 
to understand the needs of communities first and then developing solutions together is 
critical to achieving success.

HEALTH — Chevron operates in areas of the world that are at the epicenter 
of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria epidemics. To advance global health, we support 
employee, family and community programs to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS and 
other diseases. We are a partner in the United Nations’ global plan to eliminate new 
HIV infections among children by 2015 and keep their mothers alive.

EDUCATION — Working with local communities and nonprofits, we seek to improve 

education from kindergarten through high school, as well as career and vocational 
training, to help foster opportunities for people in a 21st-century economy. In 2012, we 
invested $45 million in education worldwide, which includes major funding for programs 
that emphasize science, technology, engineering and math education. 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT — We partner with governments and community 

organizations to create a strong environment for job creation and business investment. 
We invest in programs that promote self-sufficiency and we mentor businesses that 
become our suppliers.

For more details, please visit Chevron.com/Community.

Chevron sponsors Workplace Wellness presentations 
in Lagos, Nigeria. This peer education program 
includes HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis training 
for employees as well as members of the community.

27

 
 
Health
Partnering for an HIV/AIDS-Free Africa

In Angola, Nigeria and South Africa, Chevron and its partners are combating 
HIV/AIDS to improve the health of the company’s workforce and local communities. 
Our commitment to fighting the virus continues with a focus on eliminating 
mother-to-child transmission of HIV in these countries by 2015.

Dr. Chinwe Okala, Chevron’s public 
health physician in Nigeria, has 
colleagues and friends living with 
HIV/AIDS and has lost people close to 
her because of the disease. Each day 
she works to stem the impact of 
HIV/AIDS on employees and community 
members in a country where mother-
to-child transmission of the disease 
is a stark reality.

“In Nigeria, there are a disproportion-
ate number of women living with HIV 
who are giving birth to HIV-positive 
babies. Chevron thinks that’s unaccept-
able because it’s preventable, and we 
are fighting it with programs involving 
testing, treatment, education and 
support,” said Okala. 

Chevron partners with global, regional 
and local organizations to combat 
HIV/AIDS and implement programs 
in communities where we operate. 
We have been part of the fight against 
HIV/AIDS since 1986, when we joined 
13 other companies in our home state 
of California to promote education 
and reduce stigma in the workplace. 

In the 1990s, we expanded our efforts 
internationally, and in 2005, we 
became the first oil and gas company 
to implement a global HIV/AIDS 
policy for its employees. From 2008 
to 2013, we will have invested more 
than $29 million in HIV/AIDS-related 
programs in Angola, Nigeria and 
South Africa.

Above: To support economic development for 
rural women in South Africa, Chevron partnered 
with USAID and the Small Enterprise Foundation 
to fund the Intervention With Microﬁ nance for 
AIDS and Gender Equity.

In 2012, we announced an initiative 
to aggressively combat crisis-level 
mother-to-child transmission of HIV 
in Nigeria, Angola and South Africa 
by partnering with nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs), such as the 
Business Leadership Council; Pact; 
mothers2mothers; and the Global Fund 
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
These partnerships are part of our 
$20 million commitment made in 
June 2011 at the United Nations High-
Level Meeting on AIDS to support 

28

the global plan to eliminate HIV infec-
tions among newborns by 2015 and 
keep their mothers alive.

“This is not a battle any of us can 
win alone. But together, we stand a 
chance,” said Rhonda Zygocki, Chevron 
executive vice president for Policy 
and Planning.

The risk of mother-to-child transmis-
sion is an unfortunate reality in Nigeria, 
Angola and South Africa. Reports by 
UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations 
Programme on HIV/AIDS, reveal the 
challenges facing these countries. 
South Africa has the largest number 
of people living with HIV in the world, 
totaling 5.6 million HIV-positive people 
in 2009. South Africa’s 2012–2016 
National Strategic Plan on HIV, STIs 
and TB reveals that one in five 
pregnant South African adolescents 
is HIV-positive. With approximately 
3.4 million people living with HIV, 
Nigeria has the second-largest number 
of people living with HIV/AIDS in the 
world, and approximately 72,000 
babies annually are born HIV-positive. 
In Angola, an estimated 7 percent of 
the country’s HIV cases are caused by 
mother-to-child transmission.

Our company programs have made a 
remarkable impact. For eight years in 
Angola and 12 years in Nigeria, we have 
had no reports of mother-to-child trans-
mission of HIV among our employees 
or their qualified dependents.

Our Workplace Wellness 
HIV/AIDS program 
in Nigeria has reached 
approximately

20,000

employees and 
community members

Model Health Program to 
Fight Sickle Cell Anemia

Chevron partnered with the Republic of 
Angola, Baylor College of Medicine and 
Texas Children’s Hospital in 2011 to create 
Angola’s first comprehensive program 
to screen and treat newborns for sickle 
cell anemia. Sickle cell disease is an inher-
ited disorder that causes susceptibility 
to infection, hemolytic anemia, sporadic 
blockage of blood vessels and organ 
damage. In Africa, no universal screening 
program for newborns exists. 

“In many countries in sub-Saharan Africa, 
sickle cell is a major contributor to child 
mortality, perhaps accounting for 20 or 
25 percent of all deaths of children under 
five years of age,” said Dr. Mark Kline, 
physician in chief at Texas Children’s 
Hospital. “In the past, several programs 
without government support haven’t 
worked. In this case, the government, 
the Ministry of Health, and the First Lady 
of Angola were all behind the initiative. 
Chevron provided the catalytic funding, and 
without Chevron’s support, this program 
wouldn’t have gotten off the ground.” 

Chevron is providing $4 million over 
four years for the Angola Sickle Cell 
Initiative. The program began testing in 
July 2011 at two large maternity hospitals 
in Luanda, which each have 50 to 100 
births per day. Over 18 months, the pilot 
program screened more than 33,000 
babies, resulting in approximately 7,000 
testing positive for the sickle cell trait. 
And 269 children have been referred 
for treatment of sickle cell disease. 
Angolans do the testing, laboratory work 
and clinical work.

In addition to testing the babies, medical 
staff educate families about sickle cell 
disease. Babies with the disease begin 
receiving simple, cost-effective lifesaving 
treatments involving immunizations 
and penicillin to protect them against 
lethal bacterial infections.

The program is considered a model 
that can be replicated throughout Africa 
and applied to diagnose other diseases. 

“The pilot program shows that comprehen-
sive care can save lives,” said Dr. Patrick 
McGann, assistant professor of pediatrics 
at Baylor College of Medicine.

29

Above: A Chevron physician counsels a mother 
before her baby is tested for sickle cell anemia. 
Screening, testing, diagnosis and treatment 
for the disease start with parental education.

“Chevron was one of the first companies 
to understand that stopping babies 
from being born with HIV is the best 
return for investment,” said Michel 
Sidibé, executive director of UNAIDS 
and undersecretary-general of the 
United Nations. “They understood that 
we will be able to completely stop the 
epidemic if we come together.” 

Expanding Care
To address mother-to-child trans-
mission of HIV at Chevron-owned 
and -operated clinics in African 
communities, we are expanding care 
facilities and providing doctors, 
nurses, midwives and psychologists.

At our Angola clinics, 169 professionals 
focus on the health and well-being 
of our employees and their dependents. 
From 2011 to 2012, the clinics treated 
more than 140,000 patients. And 
in four Nigerian states, we donate 
essential drugs to five hospitals, two 
of which specialize in maternal and 
child care. We also built and donated 
a center at St. Kizito Clinic in Lekki, 
Lagos, to help fight infections in 
HIV/AIDS patients. 

“Our employees and their families 
are more knowledgeable about the 
disease and want to know their status. 
If needed, they can get immediate 
medical assistance,” said Dr. Judith 

Aguiar, Chevron clinic superintendent 
in Malongo, Angola.

Chevron supports the participation of 
doctors in Baylor College of Medicine 
and Texas Children’s Hospital’s Global 
Health Corps who provide care for 
mothers and children and train 
hundreds of health professionals in 
Angola and Liberia. The doctors focus 
on prevention, treatment and research 
for HIV/AIDS, sickle cell anemia, 
malaria, cancer and other diseases.

Education Is Critical
We believe that employee awareness 
is critical to combating HIV/AIDS. 
In Angola and Nigeria, we train 
employees as peer educators to 
encourage their colleagues and 
qualified dependents to know the 
facts of the disease and get tested.

Chevron supplies baby formula 
and provides psychologists to work 
with new mothers. We also encourage 
confidential, voluntary testing for 
employees and qualified dependents, 
and we emphasize that there are 
no negative repercussions for getting 
tested and seeking treatment.

“In the past, in South Africa, many 
people struggled to talk about 
HIV/AIDS,” said Miranda Anthony, 
social investment manager for 
Chevron South Africa. “Our partner-
ships are helping communities 
face this struggle and create hope 
so they understand that the 
virus is not the end of the world.”

Broadening Community Partnerships
Chevron is advancing local-partnership 
models in South Africa, Nigeria and 

Above: To help ﬁ ght tuberculosis and other infections common to HIV/AIDS patients, Chevron and its 
Agbami Field partners built seven chest clinics across Nigeria.

“Special attention is being paid to 
HIV-infected mothers who could 
transmit the disease through breast-
feeding. In Angola, surveys found that 
because of cultural prejudice, mothers 
were afraid to not breastfeed their 
babies,” said Dr. Huma Abbasi, general 
manager of Chevron’s Health and 
Medical department.

Angola. We collaborated with the 
Western Cape Department of Social 
Development, the nonprofit Heavenly 
Promise and community leaders 
to establish the Du Noon Community 
Home-Based Care Centre, which 
provides meals and services for 
homebound people with HIV/AIDS. 

30

We are also partnering with 
mothers2mothers, a sub-Saharan 
African NGO, to establish a mentor 
program in Nigeria. According to 
Dr. Mitchell Besser, medical director 
and co-founder of mothers2mothers, 
the staff is made up of former patients 
who found out they were HIV-positive 
and were fearful about their health 
and the health of their babies. 

“When they become mentor mothers, 
they’re employed, they have economic 
opportunities, and they become 
empowered in their households and 
their communities. They have opportu-
nities that they may never have had 
before,” he said.

We also approach community educa-
tion by partnering with Nigeria’s 
National Agency for the Control of 
AIDS to mentor small and medium-size 
enterprises (SMEs) to complement 
national efforts in response to the HIV 
pandemic. We started with 10 SMEs 
in Lagos in 2010, and in 2012 extended 
the program to 20 new SMEs in the 
Federal Capital Territory, Kogi and 
Nasarawa states. Over 10 months, 
there has been a 64 percent increase 
of SME and community member 
participation in HIV counseling, testing 
and treatment referrals. 

We are supporting efforts of the 
Business Leadership Council, a 
private-sector initiative focused on 
ending transmission of HIV from 
mothers to children by 2015. 
Additionally, we are partnering with 
the nonprofit Pact to establish educa-
tional programs in Nigeria’s Bayelsa 
State. “If a mother never knows she 
is living with HIV, she can do little 
to prevent infecting her baby,” said 
Mark Viso, Pact’s president and CEO. 
“That has to change, and Chevron is 
helping make that change possible.” 

  Meet Dr. Huma Abbasi, general manager 
of Chevron’s Health and Medical department at 
Chevron.com/CR2012/Health.

Executive Interview
On Addressing Health Issues

Rhonda Zygocki
Executive Vice President
Policy and Planning

How does Chevron address 
these issues?

Our approach is grounded in policy, 
partnerships and perseverance. 

This starts with a corporate policy 
to support employees. Some of our 
largest operations are located where 
the grip of AIDS is the strongest. 
We educate our entire workforce 
about prevention and testing for 
HIV/AIDS, and we provide access to 
treatment and care. 

We partner with global, national and 
local organizations, as well as host 
governments, to promote the health 
and well-being of the communities 
near our operations. 

Our clinics in Angola have treated 
140,000 employees and community 
members in just the past two years. 
We partner with universities and 
hospitals to expand pediatric health 
care to medically underserved popula-
tions in Liberia. Since 2008, we have 
invested more than $60 million in 
partnerships and programs related to 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. 

And we sustain our commitment. 
We have been fighting AIDS for more 
than 25 years.

What is the role of 
multinational corporations 
in addressing public 
health issues?

Multinational corporations such as 
Chevron recognize that our success is 
tied to the health and prosperity of 
the countries where we operate. When 
public health issues put employee 
productivity and community well-
being at risk, it is a business issue that 
demands action.

We can play unique roles in address-
ing public health issues because of our 
size, global experience and long-term 
presence in the developing world.

First, we must be role models in 
addressing workforce health issues. 
In 2005, Chevron was the first oil 
and gas company to institute a global 
HIV/AIDS policy for employees.

Second, multinational corporations 
can play a role in convening health-
related partnerships with community 
organizations and offering approaches 
to address local health concerns 
that have proven successful in other 
areas of the world.

What progress has 
Chevron helped make in 
combating disease?

Change is not only possible; it’s happen-
ing. In our company clinics and with 
our partners, we’ve produced remark-
able results. 

There have been no reports of mother-
to-child transmission of HIV among 
our employees or their qualified 
dependents during the past eight years 
in Angola and 12 years in Nigeria. 

To date, more than 11,000 employees 
have taken advantage of tools in 
our cardiovascular health program. 
More than 1,500 participants have 
collectively decreased their risk 
of developing coronary heart disease 
in the next 10 years by an average 
of 10 percent. 

Our sickle cell anemia partnerships in 
Angola are saving lives — in the first 
18 months of the program, 33,000 
babies were screened and 269 treated. 

This progress inspired our latest 
partnership. In 2011, we joined the 
global fight to eliminate mother-
to-child transmission of HIV by 2015. 
We hope our experience inspires 
others to do the same.

31

Progress Update

Our partnerships and programs 
benefit our operations and 
local communities. Following are 
2012 updates on regions 
covered in last year’s report. 

Colombia

Chevron has a history of investing in 
Colombian communities near our gas 
production facilities in La Guajira to 
help people create a better future. 
We continue to support the Laachon 
Mayapo Ethno-Educational Center, 
which provides education to more than 
1,200 children of the region. 

In 2012, we collaborated with the 
national oil company, Ecopetrol, and 
other organizations to continue work-
ing in identified areas of need in Wayúu 
communities. Through our partner-
ships, we help find and maintain water 
sources, fund educational and health 
programs, provide training in sustain-
able agriculture and fishing, encourage 
an emerging tourism industry, and 
support small businesses. We have 
maintained our support to more than 
640 fishermen near the Manaure 
municipality through technical training 
and financial assistance. 

Supporting and protecting the Wayúu 
heritage was also a major priority 
for us in 2012. Chevron continued to 
provide training and marketing support 
to more than 600 Wayúu weavers, 
who produce colorful handmade bags, 
hammocks and blankets. Chevron 
endorsed the Wayúus exhibiting for 
the first time in the Círculo de la Moda 
de Bogotá, a major fashion event.

Above: In the province of La Guajira, Colombia, Chevron initiated special training and marketing 
programs and provided materials for these works of art produced by Wayúu women.

32

South Africa

The Chevron Cape Town Refinery, 
working with Northlink College, is 
addressing the skilled-labor shortage 
in South Africa by funding training 
in nationally accredited trade-skills 
programs. In 2012, 71 Western Cape 
residents were trained in skills 
ranging from welding to mechanical 
fitting. These talents are needed 
in the local community and help the 
refinery find and hire qualified workers 
during periodic refinery maintenance 
shutdowns. Thirty-two individuals 
have since been hired to work on shut-
downs in 2012 and 2013, and eight 
graduates have been employed by one 
of Chevron’s main contractors. Three 
graduates received direct contracts 
with Chevron. 

Indonesia

In late 2011, Chevron Geothermal 
Salak, in collaboration with the Mount 
Halimun-Salak National Park Authority, 
local governments and the Indonesian 
Biodiversity Foundation, launched the 
Green Corridor Initiative. The initiative 
aims to empower local communities 
in restoring a critical ecological zone 
in the degraded forest — the “green 
corridor” — that connects Mount Salak 
and Mount Halimun ecosystems and 
serves as a wildlife crossing and water 
catchment area. The initiative plans 
to plant 250,000 trees over five years. 
In 2012, our employees and community 
members planted 20,000 trees, adding 
to the initial 5,000 trees planted in 
2011. From January to March 2013, 
we planted 20,000 more trees in the 
forest corridor.

Also in 2012, we facilitated local train-
ing programs in integrated farming 
as an economic alternative to support 
conservation efforts for 40 farmers. 
We plan to broaden the program in 2013 
by establishing an integrated farming 
and learning center to help ensure the 
sustainability of the farmers’ efforts. 

33

U.S. Northeast

Nigeria

To share expertise and improve 
practices for developing natural gas 
from shale, our Appalachian/Michigan 
business unit (AMBU) in 2012 hosted 
more than 150 technical experts at 
an international forum in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. 

In Fayette County, Pennsylvania, and 
Marshall County, West Virginia, we 
formed advisory councils to inform 
citizens about our operations and listen 
to concerns. We gave drill site tours 
and presentations to community lead-
ers, media and government officials. 

AMBU reuses 100 percent of the flow-
back water, 100 percent of drilling 
water, and 80 percent of brine gener-
ated from producing wells. Overall, 
AMBU is reusing 96 percent of all its 
water and is on track to achieve its 
goal of 100 percent reuse.

In March 2013, Chevron became a 
founding member of the Center for 
Sustainable Shale Development, 
which seeks to certify compliance with 
more stringent operation standards 
in Appalachia. A coalition of energy 
companies, environmental organi-
zations and philanthropies established 
the center, the first of its kind in the 
country. To learn more, please view 
Chevron.com/MarcellusBrochure.

Chevron provided seed-funding in 
2010 for the Niger Delta Partnership 
Initiative (NDPI) Foundation, which was 
established to help alleviate poverty 
and promote peace in the region by 
building public-private partnerships in 
four focus areas: economic develop-
ment, capacity building, peace building, 
and analysis and advocacy. 

In 2012, NDPI opened the Economic 
Development Center in Warri as 
a coordinating hub for development 
activity. Three pilot projects were 
launched to create jobs and increase 
income for Niger Delta residents within 
the aquaculture, cassava oil and palm 
oil sectors. Programs emphasize coordi-
nation between farmers, producers, 
government agencies and banks. 

NDPI’s first Niger Delta Development 
Forum brought together over 180 par-
ticipants from the government, private 
sector and development community 
to discuss measures to reduce poverty 
and promote economic development, 
capacity building and peace building.

Chevron has endowed the NDPI 
Foundation with $50 million over five 
years, 2010 to 2014. NDPI has also 
generated an additional $50 million 
in funding commitments from other 
donor partners.

Performance Data

Our people believe that success is 
driven by operating with excellence 
in everything we do. We provide 
reliable and affordable energy 
with an unyielding commitment to 
personal safety, process safety and 
environmental stewardship — by 
doing every task the right way, 
every time.

Global Geographic Breakdown of Employees 
at Year-End 2012

At year-end 2012, Chevron’s worldwide employee staffing was 58,286 
(excluding 3,653 service station employees). This represents an increase 
of 1.6 percent over the previous year. U.S. workers numbered 27,471 
and approximately 10.4 percent were represented by unions.

  North America 46.8%

  Asia-Pacific 28.7%

  Africa 13.8%

  Europe/Middle East 6.6%

  South America 4.2%

34

For the 
3rd year,

Chevron received the 
Diversity Leader 
Award from Profiles in 
Diversity Journal, 
most recently in 2012

In 2012, Chevron again 
ranked in the 

top tier

of the energy sector 
in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project’s questionnaire

Chevron’s 2012 spill 
volume was the

lowest 
ever 
recorded

The Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan is among the top-
producing fields in the world. In the reservoir, Tengiz 
oil is mixed with “sour gas,” hydrocarbon gas with 
high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide. Processing 
facilities, shown here, separate the oil and sour gas. 

35

Performance Data

GHG Emissions by Source 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

GHG Emissions by Sector 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Total GHG Emissions by Type 1, 2
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

  Combustion 

  Flaring 

  Venting 

  Other

  Upstream 

  Downstream 

  Other

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2.2

8.8

7.3

10.1

2.8

7.3

9.7

9.8

10.9

3.5

5.7

2.6

4.5

2.4

4.8

38.0

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

0.6

0.8

0.9

1.1

1.4

39.6

41.1

40.3

41.3

34.4

36.1

35.1

31.8

34.4

21.3

22.9

24.2

24.0

23.5

Direct 

Indirect 

58.5 
61.6 
63.1 
60.3 
62.7 

—2.2 
—1.8 
—2.9 
—2.4 
—2.4 

Grid
Credits 

0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
—0.9 
—1.0 

Net

56.3
59.8
60.2
57.0
59.2  

2012 
2011 
2010 
2009 
2008 

Energy Performance 3
Percentage improvement since 1992 baseline

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

34

34

33

30

28

Air Emissions 4, 5
Metric tons

  Upstream 

  Downstream 

  Other

Air Emissions by Sector 4, 5
Metric tons

Average Oil Concentration in 
Discharges to Water 6
Parts per million

VOCs

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

SOX

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

NOX

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

180,582

275,963

262,307

274,146

221,734

122,827

154,239

154,949

151,861

125,036

146,386

132,173

134,761

121,914

134,785

Upstream  Downstream 

Other

  Upstream 

  Manufacturing and Chemicals

VOCs  2012 
2011 
2010 
2009 
2008 

SOX 

NOX 

2012 
2011 
2010 
2009 
2008 

2012 
2011 
2010 
2009 
2008 

157,349 
245,806 
229,113 
234,243 
201,209 

114,606 
140,355 
137,005 
135,393 
97,731 

138,902 
122,848 
121,627 
109,320 
95,717 

23,195 
30,132 
33,174 
39,871 
18,648 

8,193 
13,849 
17,902 
16,339 
18,496 

38
26
21
32
1,878

28
35
42
130
8,810

7,364 
8,373 
12,155 
12,453 
12,282 

120
952
979
142
26,785

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

3

2

2

4

4

10

9

11

13

13

Fines and Settlements 
Number of environmental, health and safety 
fines paid and settlements entered into

Petroleum Spills 7, 8
Volume in barrels

Petroleum Spills 8
Number of spills

  Spills to land 
  Spills to water 

  Secondary containment
  Volume recovered

  Spills to land 
  Spills to water

  Secondary containment 

YEAR 

08 

09 

10 

11 

12

2012

3,092

2,081

Total number 

564  460  524  185  229

Footnotes are on page 40.

36

2011

2010

2009

2008

12,396

8,114

12,114

10,388

9,342

7,509

17,471

14,396

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

232

274

258

331

324

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Performance Data

The charts and text on pages 36 through 38 describe 
Chevron’s environmental performance.

Chevron acquired Appalachian/Michigan operations 
(formerly, Atlas Energy, Inc.) in 2011, and we added these 
operations to our Upstream and Gas portfolio. At the time 
of the acquisition and in years prior, however, environ-
mental performance measurement systems were not fully 
in place. Thus, our 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report, 
published in May 2012, could not report performance for 
these operations. In 2012, however, Chevron established 
environmental performance measurement systems for 
Appalachian/Michigan operations, and this 2012 Corporate 
Responsibility Report includes their environmental 
performance data. 

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions

At Chevron, we are taking significant steps to address 
greenhouse gases (GHGs). The use of fossil fuels to meet the 
world’s energy needs contributes to an increase in GHGs — 
mainly carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane — in Earth’s 
atmosphere. We made a long-term commitment to improve 
energy efficiency in our day-to-day activities, which will help 
us manage our carbon emissions. We inventory our emissions 
and use innovative technologies to continually improve 
the efficiency of energy use in our operations. We also 
incorporate GHG considerations into our capital projects. 
For more details, visit Chevron.com/GHGManagement.

In the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) 2012 questionnaire, 
we ranked in the top tier of the energy sector. Our score 
of 88 was two points higher than the previous year’s, 
revealing that we continue to improve our data quality and 
the transparency of our GHG reporting. For additional details 
on Chevron’s climate change program and CDP reporting, 
visit Chevron.com/ClimateChange.

In 2012, emissions were 56.3 million metric tons of CO2 
equivalent, better than our goal of 60.5 million metric tons. 
Normal production levels and emissions are expected to 
resume in areas where disruptions and maintenance occurred 
in 2012, and emissions are expected from new facilities 
and facility expansions coming on line in 2013, such as the 
acquisition of assets in the Delaware Basin. We will seek 
emissions reductions through energy efficiency improve-
ments and reduced flaring and venting.

Adjusting for divestitures and acquisitions, Chevron’s chosen 
base-year emissions in 2010 would have been 56.6 million 
metric tons. Therefore, Chevron’s 2012 emissions are a 
decrease of 0.3 million metric tons compared with the base 

year. Our emissions goal for 2013 is 57.5 million metric 
tons of CO2 equivalent.

Combustion of our products resulted in emissions of approxi-
mately 364 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent in 2012, 
approximately 8 percent less than the 396 million metric 
tons emitted in 2011. More details on flaring reduction and 
products combustion are provided in footnote 1 on page 40.

GHG Emissions Intensity

Our 2012 GHG emissions intensity was 34.2 metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels of net oil-equivalent 
production from Upstream operations, down from 
34.9 metric tons in 2011. Our Downstream intensity was 
36.4 metric tons of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels of 
crude oil refinery feed, down from 36.8 in 2011.

Air Emissions

Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions decreased 
by 35 percent from 2011, largely due to the installation of 
abatement devices in Sumatra, Indonesia. 

Sulfur oxide (SOX) emissions decreased by 20 percent 
from 2011. This is largely due to Saudi Arabia/Partitioned 
Zone operations combusting less production gas than 
in past years.

Nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions increased by 11 percent 
from 2011. This is partially due to improved NOX emissions 
estimating methods for combustion sources associated 
with Thailand and Bangladesh operations.

Oil Discharges to Water

Chevron facilities make controlled wastewater discharges to 
surface water. In many cases, the discharges are treated, 
and in all cases they comply with regulatory limits on quality 
and oil content. Chevron reports the total cumulative amount 
of oil discharged to surface water, excluding spills, which are 
reported separately.

In 2012, Chevron operations recorded a cumulative discharge 
of 1,564 metric tons of oil to surface water, a comparable 
amount to 2011. The chart on page 36 shows that oil concen-
tration in water discharges for Upstream and Gas and for 
Manufacturing and Chemicals were reported at similar levels 
in 2012 to those reported in 2011. The general trend over the 
past five years shows a reduction in oil discharged to surface 
water because of continuing improvements in Chevron’s 
overall wastewater management.

37

Hazardous Waste

In 2012, Chevron operations generated 931,000 metric tons 
of hazardous waste, a decrease from the 1.01 million metric 
tons reported for 2011. Manufacturing hazardous-waste 
generation decreased in 2012 due to the divestment of the 
Pembroke Refinery and reduced tank-sludge disposal 
at the Pascagoula Refinery. Upstream and Gas hazardous-
waste generation decreased due to fewer spills from 
Sumatra, Indonesia, operations. Fewer spills in Indonesia 
resulted in less contaminated soil, which is classified there 
as hazardous waste. The 2012 hazardous waste disposed 
of was 553,000 metric tons. The 2012 amount that was 
recycled, reused and recovered was 385,000 metric tons.

Waste amounts are quantified using methods required or 
recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities where 
applicable. In other instances, similar methods are used, 
including direct measurement onsite, direct measurement 
by transporters at the point of shipping or loading, direct 
measurement by waste-disposal contractors at the point of 
disposal, and engineering estimates or process knowledge.

Chevron follows the regulatory definition of hazardous 
waste and reports all amounts of hazardous waste as 
required. In some cases, applicable regulations may define 
a de minimis quantity below which small waste streams 
may not be deemed significant enough to be considered 
as hazardous waste. As Chevron follows the regulatory 
definition of hazardous waste where this applies, these 
same de minimis quantities are used in reporting.

Petroleum Spills 

We continually review and improve systems to prevent spills. 
These systems include design and maintenance of equipment 
to assure mechanical integrity and training of personnel on 
correct procedures for operating equipment.

The number of petroleum spills and petroleum spill volume 
in 2012 was the lowest ever recorded for Chevron. In 2012, 
232 petroleum spills released 3,092 barrels, a significant 
decrease compared with 12,396 barrels released by 274 spills 
in 2011. Approximately 46 percent, or 1,408 barrels, of the 
total volume was spilled to secondary containment in 2012. 
There were seven spills greater than 100 barrels in 2012, 
totaling 1,200 barrels. 

Chevron uses a tiered approach to emergency response 
consistent with industry best practices. Chevron requires 
emergency response and business continuity plans that 
address all credible, significant risks identified by site-specific 
risk and impact assessments. Chevron also requires suffi-
cient resources to execute these plans. Compliance with 

38

these requirements is tested through operating units’ annual 
self-assessment and, in cases of higher risk, through corpo-
rate audits. Response to smaller incidents is generally 
managed through operating unit plans and resources at the 
affected location.

Response to major incidents may require the use of expertise 
and resources beyond those of the affected facility. For this 
purpose, Chevron maintains a worldwide emergency response 
team. This team comprises approximately 200 employees 
who are trained in various aspects of emergency response 
and are available 24/7 to respond to a major incident at any 
of our operations. Team members represent a range of 
skill sets associated with spill and other incident response. 
They are medically cleared, trained in the incident command 
system and participate in regular exercises to maintain 
their skills. Three to four corporate-sponsored exercises are 
held annually at varying locations to test the ability of 
these teams and line organizations to respond to a major 
event. Response plans are updated to capture lessons 
learned from these exercises.

Chevron also maintains active membership in international 
oil spill cooperatives and access to expert external consul-
tants and contractors. Chevron is a key member of the 
two largest global oil spill cooperatives — the Marine Spill 
Response Corp. and Oil Spill Response Ltd. Chevron is 
represented on the board of directors of these cooperatives.

Chevron maintains contracts with a wide range of spill 
response experts and organizations that can support us in 
areas that include incident management, wildlife manage-
ment, oil spill and air dispersion modeling, toxicology, 
chemistry, firefighting, communications, shipping, and 
salvage. Some of these organizations also maintain stock-
piles of spill response equipment.

Additionally, Chevron participates in trade association 
efforts to advance worldwide oil spill preparedness, including 
the Emergency Preparedness and Response Committee 
and the Spill Advisory Group of the American Petroleum 
Institute, and the Oil Spill Working Group within IPIECA, the 
global oil and gas industry association for environmental 
and social issues.

Fines Paid and Settlements Entered Into

Environmental expenditures were $2.8 billion ($1.1 billion 
capital expenditures, $1.7 billion noncapital expenditures). 
2012 environmental fines and settlements were $91 million. 
This represents 3.1 percent of Chevron’s total 2012 environ-
mental expenditures. Health and safety fines and settlements 
accounted for approximately 0.011 percent, representing 
$10,000, of the total fines and settlements.

Performance Data

Total Recordable Incident Rate 9
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Lost-Time Incident Frequency 9
Days Away From Work incidents and 
fatalities per million work hours

Days Away From Work Rate 9
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

YEAR 

12
  Workforce 
0.36  0.27  0.24  0.24  0.24
  Benchmark  0.55  0.40  0.41  0.39  N/A

11 

09 

08 

10 

YEAR 

12
  Workforce 
0.27  0.25  0.18  0.20  0.14
  Benchmark  0.64  0.44  0.45  0.43  N/A

11 

10 

08 

09 

YEAR 

12
  Workforce 
0.05  0.05  0.03  0.04  0.03
  Benchmark  0.12  0.09  0.09  0.08  N/A

10 

09 

11 

08 

Employees  0.31  0.32  0.22  0.22  0.20
Benchmark  0.47  0.42  0.33  0.33  N/A

Contractors  0.37  0.26  0.24  0.24  0.25
Benchmark  0.59  0.39  0.45  0.42  N/A

Employees  0.33  0.33  0.17  0.29  0.12
Benchmark  0.57  0.52  0.44  0.42  N/A

Contractors  0.25  0.23  0.19  0.12  0.15
Benchmark  0.67  0.39  0.46  0.43  N/A

Employees  0.07  0.07  0.03  0.06  0.02
Benchmark  0.11  0.10  0.08  0.08  N/A

Contractors  0.05  0.04  0.03  0.03  0.03
Benchmark  0.13  0.07  0.09  0.08  N/A

Work-Related Fatalities
Number of fatalities

Work-Related Fatal Accident Rate10
Work-related employee or contractor 
fatalities per 100 million work hours

Motor Vehicle Safety 11
Company vehicle incidents per million 
miles driven

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

0.05

0.03

0.01

0.06

0.06

YEAR 

  Workforce 
Employees 
Contractors 

08 
5 
0 
5 

09 
9 
0 
9 

10 
5 
0 
5 

11 
5 
1 
4 

12
8
1
7

08 

YEAR 

12
  Workforce 
1.01  1.85  1.03  0.99  1.48
  Benchmark  3.70  3.20  3.10  2.70  N/A

11 

10 

09 

Employees  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.79  0.76
Contractors  1.40  2.54  1.40  1.05  1.71

Global Diversity

YEAR 
Women in total workforce 
Women represented at mid-level and above 
Women and non-Caucasian men represented at senior executive levels 

11 
23.4% 
12.4% 
27.5% 

12
23.8%
12.5%
26.9%

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics

YEAR 
Minorities among total employees 
Women among total employees 
Minorities among executives and senior managers 
Minorities among first- and mid-level managers 
Women among executives and senior managers 
Women among first- and mid-level managers 
Minorities among professionals 
Women among professionals 

09 
34.9% 
28.9% 
11.2% 
27.5% 
14.4% 
27.4% 
31.4% 
32.4% 

10 
35.4% 
29.3% 
11.1% 
27.4% 
15.3% 
26.9% 
31.7% 
32.8% 

11 
35.9% 
29.3% 
11.6% 
27.7% 
16.3% 
27.4% 
31.8% 
32.2% 

12
36.2%
29.7%
11.1%
27.9%
15.9%
28.1%
32.3%
32.0%

Footnotes are on page 40.

39

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Process Safety  12

In 2012, there were 74 loss-of-primary-containment incidents of significance 
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 Tier 1) across the company, compared 
with 92 incidents in 2011. Of the 74 incidents, 60 occurred in Upstream and 
14 in Downstream, which includes Manufacturing and Chemicals.

 Notes to pages 36 through 40

  1 Chevron continues to use the upgraded GHG 

and energy reporting system (CGERS), 
improved by adding reporting mechanisms 
for electronic reporting to the U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency. 

 Overall, the decrease of 3.5 million metric tons 
of GHG emissions from 2011 to 2012 was driven 
by the divestment of the Pembroke Refinery and 
Alaska operations (2.2 million) and the Richmond 
Refinery’s decreased production, which also had 
an impact on Shipping (0.6 million decrease). 
Decreases in production and related flaring in 
Angola also heavily contributed (0.5 million). 
Elsewhere, Indonesia converted venting to 
flaring, which decreased CO2 equivalent emis-
sions. Increased emissions due to increases in 
pro duction generally offset the emissions 
reductions. Energy efficiency improvements 
continue to help slow the growth of emissions.

 Chevron calculates product emissions based on 
total 2012 Upstream liquids, gas and coal produc-
tion. The emissions factors used are from the 
American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for 
the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2004, 2009). 
Based on the 30.3 billion metric tons of CO2 
emissions from worldwide fossil fuel combustion 
from the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) 
Key World Energy Statistics (2012), Chevron’s 
product emissions represent 1.2 percent of global 
CO2 emissions from combustion of fossil fuels.

 The 2012 flaring and venting GHG emissions are 
based on a flare gas volume of 794 million cubic 
feet per day and a venting volume of 54 million 
cubic feet per day. Reduced flaring in Angola and 
Nigeria contributed to the 11 percent reduction 
in flare gas volume. Reduced venting in Indonesia 
was the primary driver for the 74 percent reduc-
tion in vented volume.

 Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported on 
an equity basis for all businesses in which 
Chevron has an interest except as noted below. 
The following entities are not currently included 
in the Chevron corporate GHG inventory: 
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian 
Pipeline Consortium, the Chad/Cameroon pipe-
line joint venture, Caltex Australia Ltd.’s Lytton 
and Kurnell refineries, and other refineries in 
which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 per-
cent or less. These are entities over which 
Chevron does not have full operational control 
or which do not generally follow Chevron’s 
corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible 
protocol. Chevron continues to perform third-
party verification of its GHG emissions to ensure 
the high quality of its reported data.

 Chevron accounts for and reports its emissions 
of all six Kyoto GHGs — that is, carbon dioxide 
(CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), 

40

sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydro-
fluorocarbons — from all direct sources of 
emissions. The company also accounts for and 
reports its indirect emissions of CO2, CH4 and 
N2O from the import or purchase of electricity 
and steam, while also tracking for internal GHG 
performance management purposes the emis-
sions of these gases associated with the export 
or sale of electricity and steam. In addition 
to direct and indirect emissions, the company 
estimates and reports the CO2, CH4 and N2O 
emissions that would result from the combustion 
of the solid, liquid and gas products for sale by 
the company.

 Chevron facilities estimate GHG emissions 
from all their sources and activities. A facility 
may exclude quantitatively insignificant, 
or de minimis, emissions from its sitewide GHG 
inventory if allowed by applicable regulations. 
Where GHG reporting regulations do not apply, 
Chevron guidelines allow for exclusion of a 
de minimis quantity of a site’s GHG emissions 
from reported inventory when that facility 
demonstrates at least once every two years 
that the excluded amount remains below 
3 percent of the sitewide amount.

 Due to rounding, individual numbers may not 
sum to the total number.

  2 Direct emissions come from sources within a 

facility. Indirect emissions come from electricity 
and steam that Chevron imports, less the 
emissions credits from electricity and steam 
that Chevron exports. Grid credits account 
for electricity that Chevron exports and that 
is produced more efficiently than electricity 
from the regional or national grid. Per industry 
best practices, beginning in 2010, Chevron no 
longer accounts for grid credits in its power 
generation emissions.

  3 Chevron uses an energy index to measure 
energy efficiency improvements across 
its global operations. As of 2012, that index 
has shown a 34 percent improvement since 
1992. The Chevron Energy Index is a measure 
of the energy intensity of its operations, 
based on the estimated improvement of 
energy technologies and operational perform-
ance. The total energy consumption of its 
operated assets in 2012 was 728 million 
gigajoules (or 690 trillion Btu), at a cost of 
$6.8 billion. 

    Chevron is implementing new energy metrics 
in 2013 that will provide sector-specific (for 
example, Upstream, Downstream) estimation 
of actual energy use. These performance data 
are being reviewed this year for inclusion in 
future Corporate Responsibility Reports. 

  4 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are derived 

primarily from fugitive emissions from 

equipment (such as valves, pumps and compres-
sors), flaring, venting and flashing gas. Nitrogen 
oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides (SOX) are 
combustion byproducts.

  5 2011 air emissions are restated in this report 
using site-specific data and improved air 
emissions estimating methods in IndoAsia 
operations and Asia South operations. 

 “Other” includes Chevron Mining Inc.

 Due to rounding, individual numbers may not 
sum to the total numbers.

  6 Segregated storm-water contribution is not 
included. Oil concentration is determined 
by the sampling of effluent streams. Upstream 
data in the chart represent Upstream and 
Gas operations. 

  7 Secondary containment volume, which is not 

released to the environment, is included in the 
total volume listed at the end of each bar. 

  8 Spills to land, water and secondary containment 
that are greater than or equal to one barrel 
are included.

  9 American Petroleum Institute’s Benchmarking 
Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses, and 
Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry data are used 
as industry benchmarks. 2012 benchmark data 
on competitor-average performance were not 
available at the time of publication.

 10 The International Association of Oil & Gas 

Producers’ (OGP) Safety Performance Indicators 
(Report No. 2011s) data are used as industry 
benchmarks for Upstream operations. 2012 bench-
mark data on competitor-average performance 
were not available at the time of publication. 
In 2012, the work-related fatal-incident rate, as 
measured by the number of work-related 
incidents that led to at least one fatality per 
100 million work hours, for employees was 0.76. 
The 2012 work-related fatal-incident rate for 
contractors was 1.22. Benchmark data © OGP. 

11   Data include catastrophic and major incidents only. 

12  Loss-of-containment incidents are unplanned or 
uncontrolled releases resulting in consequences 
equivalent to those specified by the American 
National Standards Institute/American Petroleum 
Institute (ANSI/API) Recommended Practice 754.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chevron achieved 
a rating of 

100% 

on the Human Rights 
Campaign Corporate 
Equality Index for the 
eighth consecutive year

Nearly 
$1.2 billion

has been invested in 
health, education and 
economic development 
programs over the 
past seven years

Chevron partners with

more than 
90 schools

worldwide through 
its University 
Partnership Program

Under a Chevron-supported economic development 
program, Bhanu Moti received a loan and training 
to expand her small duck farm. She now owns 
approximately 400 ducks and sells 70 to 80 eggs 
every day, earning enough to send three of her 
children to school.

41

GRI and API/IPIECA Index

This index refers to:

• 2011 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version 3.1

• American Petroleum Institute (API) and IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental 

and social issues) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd edition, 2010 

  For more information on GRI and API/IPIECA reporting guidelines, please visit globalreporting.org and ipieca.org.

GRI

API/IPIECA

Where Reported

Proﬁ le Disclosures

Strategy and Analysis

Organizational Proﬁ le

1.1   1.2
2.1   2.22   2.32   2.42   2.52   2.62   2.72   2.82   2.92   2.10

Report Parameters

Report Proﬁ le   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   

2–3

1, 11, 45

45

1, 40–45

42

43

1–4, 19

1–4, 17, 21

1

23–26

23–31

36, 41

18

19–22

15–18, 36, 37, 38

16–18

36

23–26, 34, 40

34

Report Scope and Boundary   3.5   3.6   3.7   3.8   3.9   3.10   3.11

GRI Content Index   3.12

Assurance   3.13
Governance   4.13   4.23   4.32   4.42   4.52   4.62   4.72   4.84   
4.95   4.102
Commitments to External Initiatives   4.11   4.122   4.132   
Stakeholder Engagement   4.141   4.151, 5  4.161    4.171, 5

SE182

Economic Performance   EC13   EC23   EC33   EC43   EC53   
Market Presence   EC66   EC76
Indirect Economic Impacts   EC87, 8   EC91, 7, 8

SE135
SE4   SE71, 6

Materials   EN1   EN2
Energy   EN3   EN4   EN59, 10   EN6 9, 10   EN72, 9
Water   EN8   EN9   EN1011
Biodiversity   EN11   EN1212   EN1312   EN1412   EN1512
Emissions, Efﬂ uents and Waste   EN16   EN17   EN1813   EN19 
EN20   EN21   EN22   EN23   EN24   EN25
Products and Services   EN2612   EN27   EN29

Compliance   EN28

Overall   EN30

Employment   LA1   LA2   LA3

Employee Satisfaction   
Labor/Management Relations   LA45   LA5
Occupational Health and Safety   LA6   LA7   LA814   LA9

Training and Education   LA10   LA11   LA12
Diversity and Equal Opportunity   LA132, 6   LA14
Investment and Procurement Practices   HR1   HR2   HR315

Nondiscrimination   HR4

Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining   HR5

Child Labor   HR6

Forced and Compulsory Labor   HR7
Security Practices   HR815

Indigenous Rights   HR9   HR10   HR11
Community   SO11, 7  SO9   SO10
Corruption   SO2   SO35   SO4
Public Policy   SO516   SO65

Compliance   SO7   SO8
Customer Health and Safety   PR14   PR518
Product and Service Labeling   PR317

Marketing Communications   PR6

E2   E310

E6
E512
E8   E9   E1   E413   E10   E7

SE6

SE16

HS1   HS214   HS3   HS5

6–14, 28–31, 40, 41

SE17

SE815   SE915
SE156

SE1015
SE215
SE11   SE315   SE41, 7   SE51
SE115   SE125
SE145, 16

HS44, 17

34, 40

31

26

15–18, 19–23, 24–26, 28–30

36, 38

Compliance   PR2   PR4   PR7   PR8   PR9
Information responsive to 
these indicators appears on 
our websites:

  1   Throughout print and online report
  2  Chevron.com
  3  Chevron.com/AnnualReport
  4  Chevron.com/OE
  5  Chevron.com/BusinessEthics
  6  Chevron.com/Diversity
  7  Chevron.com/SocialInvestment

  8  ChevronCalifornia.com
  9  Chevron.com/EnergyEfficiency
 10  Chevron.com/EmergingEnergy
 11  Chevron.com/Environment
 12  Chevron.com/Biodiversity
 13  Chevron.com/ClimateChange
 14  Chevron.com/HealthSafety

 15  Chevron.com/HumanRights
 16  Chevron.com/EnergyPolicy
 17  Chevron.com/MSDS
 18  Chevron.com/Benefits

Governance, Commitments 
and Engagement

Economic

Environmental

Social

Labor Practices and 
Decent Work

Human Rights

Society

Product Responsibility

Key to Indicators:
Fully reported in 2012
Partially reported in 2012
Not covered in 2012

42

  
Assurance Statement 

Terms of Engagement
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron 
U.S.A. Inc.

Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was commis-
sioned by Chevron U.S.A. Inc., on behalf of Chevron Corporation 
(Chevron), to assure its processes used in the creation of 
the Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for the calendar 
year 2012. 

Our terms of engagement were to review the processes for 
reporting health, environmental and safety (HES) performance 
indicators. This did not include verifying the accuracy of data 
and information reported. 

LRQA has reviewed Chevron’s reporting processes since 2008 
(for the 2007 CRR).

Management Responsibility
Chevron’s management was responsible for preparing the 
CRR and for maintaining effective internal controls over 
the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility 
was to carry out an assurance engagement on the CRR in 
accordance with our contract with Chevron.

Ultimately, the CRR has been approved by, and remains the 
responsibility of, Chevron.

LRQA’s Approach
Our verification has been conducted against the requirements 
of LRQA’s Report Verification procedure. The objectives of the 
assurance engagement were to verify the integrity of the proc-
esses used for determining which material issues to report, and 
to evaluate consistency with the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas 
Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). 

To form our conclusions, the assurance was undertaken as a 
sampling exercise and covered the following activities:

•  Visiting two Chevron Upstream and Gas operations in Australia 
and the United States and two Chevron Downstream operations 
in Singapore and Canada to assess local understanding and 
implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•  Visiting Chevron Upstream and Gas headquarters in Houston, 
Texas, and Chevron Downstream and Chemicals headquarters 
in San Ramon, California, to assess business-unit understanding 
and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•  Visiting Chevron Corporation in San Ramon, California, to 
review data collection and checking processes.

•   Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understand-
ing of Chevron’s reporting requirements.

•  Reviewing the documented reporting requirements to validate 
consistency of scope, definition and reporting for each of the 
HES performance indicators.

Level of Assurance
The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been 
formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance.

LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, Chevron’s reporting process was 
effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for 
assessing corporate performance and reporting information 
consistent with the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). 

  It should be noted that:

•  Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to 
core HES metrics understood corporate reporting procedures 
and requirements.

•  Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric 
were clearly defined and communicated. 

•  Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were 
understood and carried out. Data collected at the site/local 
and business-unit levels were checked and aggregated 
into corporationwide metrics.

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting 
guidelines was clear, with improvement in methodology 
regularly undertaken.

LRQA’s Recommendations
   Observations and areas for potential improvement were 
provided in a report to Chevron management. These recom-
mendations do not affect our opinion.

Andrea M. Bockrath
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 
1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77077
March 28, 2013

LRQA Reference: UQA4000679

This document is subject to the provisions below: 
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to 
in this clause as the “Lloyd’s Register Group.” The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense 
caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register 
Group entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

Due to the inherent limitations in any internal control, it is possible that fraud, error, or noncompliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, 
the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above, as the verification has not 
been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls was on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation 
of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
them may deteriorate.

The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 

43

Glossary

Aa
API
American Petroleum Institute

Bb
Biodiversity 
Refers to the diversity of life 
on the planet. It encompasses 
genera, species, habitats and 
 ecosystems, and the processes 
that support them.

Cc
Capacity building 
A key area of focus for Chevron’s 
social investment efforts, which 
means targeting support toward 
programs that help individuals 
and institutions develop the skills, 
capabilities and expertise they 
need to succeed.

The Chevron Way 
Explains our values: who we are, 
what we do, what we believe 
and what we plan to accomplish.

Corporate responsibility 
Putting The Chevron Way values 
into action across environmental, 
social, and governance issues 
and priorities.

Dd
Downstream 
The industry term for opera-
tions related to refining crude 
oil into finished petroleum 
products, and for marketing 
crude oil and the many products 
derived from petroleum.

Rr
Renewable energy 
Energy resources that are 
not depleted when consumed 
or converted into other 
forms of energy (for example, 
solar, geothermal, ocean 
and tide, wind, hydroelectric, 
and biofuels).

Ss
Social investment 
The resources Chevron provides 
with the objective of benefiting 
our external stakeholders, 
and building and maintaining 
relationships to support 
our business.

Stakeholder 
At Chevron, defined as those 
who affect, are affected by, 
or have a legitimate interest in 
our company’s performance.

Uu
Upstream 
The industry term for opera-
tions related to exploring 
for, developing and producing 
crude oil and natural gas; for 
marketing natural gas; and for 
transporting crude oil, natural 
gas and petroleum products 
by pipeline and marine vessel.

Nn
Nongovernmental 
organization (NGO) 
An organization that is inde-
pen dent from government, 
generally a nonprofit organi-
zation devoted to providing 
assistance to or advancing a 
particular cause or issue.

Oo
OGP
International Association of Oil 
& Gas Producers

OHSAS 18001:2007
An international Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment 
Series management system 
specification.

Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS) 
Chevron’s standard approach 
to systematic management 
of safety, health, the environ-
ment, reliability and efficiency 
in order to achieve world-class 
performance.

Pp
Partner 
In this report, partner is used 
in its broad sense to mean a 
person or organization associ-
ated with another in a common 
activity or one that shares a 
mutual interest. It does not imply 
a member of a contractual part-
nership in which the partners 
jointly own and carry on a busi-
ness and proportionally share 
in liabilities, profits or losses of 
the business.

Ee
ESHIA 
Chevron’s Environmental, 
Social and Health Impact Assess-
ment is a process designed to 
logically and consistently identify 
potentially significant project-
related environmental, social 
and health impacts.

Energy efficiency 
Efficient energy use is one of 
the easiest and most economical 
sources of new energy today.

Ff
Flaring and venting 
The burning or release of 
natural gas that is often pro-
duced in association with crude 
oil, a process that typically 
occurs when there is no market 
or onsite use for the gas.

Gg
Geothermal energy 
A renewable source of energy 
that uses the heat energy 
of the earth for heating or to 
create electricity.

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) 
Gases that trap heat in the 
atmos phere; such gases include 
water vapor, ozone, carbon 
dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, 
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluoro-
carbons and sulfur hexafluoride.

Ii
IPIECA
The global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and 
social issues.

ISO 14001:2004
Environmental management 
 system standard developed 
by the International Organization 
for Standardization.

Energy Efficiency
LEDs (light-emitting diodes) are a key component 
of Caltex’s efforts to achieve savings through 
energy efficiency and reduce the environmental 
impact of retail stations. LEDs in under-canopy 
lights, canopy fascia and signage are calculated 
to use 30 to 50 percent less energy. Numerous 
Caltex-branded stations have converted to 
LED lighting since 2010.

44

By operating responsibly, developing strong 
partnerships and investing in communities, together 
we make a brighter future. To learn more, please 
visit Chevron.com/CorporateResponsibility.

About This Report

This report covers 2012 data and activities. We also occasionally mention activities that took place before 2012 and in 
early 2013 when they help provide a clearer picture of our performance. This report covers our owned or operated businesses 
and does not address the performance of our suppliers, contractors or partners unless otherwise noted. All financial 
information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. Our previous report was published in May 2012 and covers 
2011 data and activities.

We continue to be informed by reporting frameworks and guidelines that include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the 
Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd edition, published in 2010 by IPIECA (the global 
oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). We included 
an index to help readers find information corresponding to the GRI and API/IPIECA indicators (see page 42).

This report, previous editions of our report and additional information can be found at Chevron.com/CR. We welcome your 
comments and feedback.

Ms. Lauren Buggs
Chevron Corporation
6101 Bollinger Canyon Road, Room 3200
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324

Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information

This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron  Corporation contains forward-looking 
statements relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to conduct certain of its activities, 
based on management’s current plans and expectations. These statements are not promises 
or guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other 
factors, many of which are beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation or 
continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed to forecast in this report, may differ 
materially in the future. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the date 
of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly update any statements in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as “the company,” “the corporation,” 
“their,” “our,” “its,” “we,” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated 
subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All these terms are used for con-
venience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate entities, 
each of which manages its own affairs.

WRITER
Peter Bartelme 

COPY EDITOR
Eileen Ostrow Feldman

PRODUCTION TEAM
Stirling Alexander
Alexandra Lakin
Santi Manuhutu
Karla McCormick

PHOTO CREDITS
Cover & Pages 11, 13, 39 & 41: Munem Wasif
Page 3: Eric Myer
Pages 4–5: Chevron U.S.A. Inc.
Page 6: Jackson Hill
Page 7: Ken Childress
Page 8: Jan K. Glenn
Page 10: McNee Productions
Page 12: Sheikh Rajibul Islam
Pages 15 & 17: Peter Cannon/GEOmedia
Pages 16 & 35: Vadim Soloviyov
Page 18: Tengizchevroil LLP
Pages 19 & 21: Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd.
Page 20: Steve Zalan
Page 22: Sheryl Maruca
Pages 23 & 26: Jeremy Ashton
Page 24: Tom Rovis Hermann
Page 25: Chevron Australia Pty. Ltd.
Page 27: Ryan Polomski 
Page 28: Patrick King
Page 29: Divaldo Gregorio
Page 30: Chevron Nigeria Ltd.
Page 31: Marilyn Hulbert
Pages 32 & 44: Marc Marriott

2012 Annual Report

2012 Supplement to the Annual Report

2012 Corporate Responsibility Report

 Learn More Online 
The Annual Report, the Supplement to the Annual Report 
and the Corporate Responsibility Report are available on 
the Internet at Chevron.com/Publications.

Scan this QR code with your smart-
phone to access Chevron’s 2012 
Corporate Responsibility Report and 
related videos online.

QR readers are available from your 
phone’s app store.

Chevron.com/CR2012

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council®–
certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent 
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental 
chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar 
panels are expected to offset the company’s energy 
demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel, New York

© 2013 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

913-0386J 5/13 (20M)

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

