INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

1 Welcome
2 A Message From Our CEO
3 Chevron at a Glance
4 How We Conduct Our Business

6 Performance Overview
8 Priorities, Progress and Plans

10 An Interview With Our Vice Chairman

Above: Chevron’s geothermal operations in Salak, Indonesia, supply renewable energy to the state electric utility PT. Perusahaan Listrik Negara. 

On the cover: A weaver’s hands are at work at Putri Tujuh Weaving, a small business in Dumai, Indonesia. PT. Chevron Pacific Indonesia (CPI) has been assisting
this business since 2001 with financial support for building renovation, materials and equipment, and technical training. Putri Tujuh is one of several local
businesses CPI supports.

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 1

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

12 Introduction
14 Global Strategic Workforce Development
16 Stakeholder Engagement
18 Health and Safety
21 Supply Chain Management
22 Community Engagement
25 Human Rights
26 Angola Case Study

28 Introduction
30 Climate Change
33 Renewable Energy
35 Environmental Management

39 About This Report
39 Glossary
40 GRI and API/IPIECA Index

Welcome to our fifth Corporate Responsibility Report. It contains
descriptions of new and ongoing socioeconomic and environmental
performance and related data. The achievements, goals and challenges
included here reflect our belief that our business success depends equally 
on outstanding results and how we achieve those results. Both are guided 
by our vision, as described in The Chevron Way, to be the global energy
company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. 

1

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 2

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

A Message From Our CEO

The men and women of Chevron, our “human energy,” have
a pioneering, ingenious and collaborative spirit that enables
the company to succeed. They understand the importance 
of energy to global economic growth and human progress
and are committed to securing the energy the world needs
through innovation and value creation. They are also the
means by which we integrate corporate responsibility into
our operations worldwide. 

Chevron continued to deliver energy safely and reliably 
in 2006. We posted strong financial results and earned
attractive returns for our stockholders. Our 2006 Annual
Report, titled Managing the Energy Portfolio, details these
successes and explains our investments across the energy
spectrum to meet the world’s growing demand for energy.
At the same time, we continued to advance our corporate
responsibility objectives and results. 

We remained focused on our target of zero incidents.
Chevron is moving solidly toward world-class performance.
We set a new safety record in 2006, our fifth consecutive
year. However, 12 people died last year working on behalf 
of Chevron. The lessons we have learned from these and 
all incidents will enhance the safety of our operations 
going forward. 

In 2006, our business investments produced economic
benefits for our employees, business partners and the
communities where we operate. We also invested nearly 
$91 million to help people improve their lives through
education, training and local business development. These
community engagement investments spanned the globe. 
We partnered on a new polytechnic school in Indonesia; 
supported learning centers in Venezuela; engaged with
governments, communities and nongovernmental
organizations to reach common development goals in
Angola and Nigeria; and launched the Energy for Learning
initiative to support public schools on the U.S. Gulf Coast. 

“Our statement on climate change has
been expanded to build on our Fourfold
Plan of Action on Climate Change. The
statement conveys the company’s views
on the principles of economically sound
climate policies.”

22

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 3

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Chevron at a Glance

Chevron improved its practices for assessing environmental,
social and health impacts associated with its capital 
projects – before the projects even start. We have now
defined and deployed an assessment process for virtually 
all new projects that will identify ways to create greater
value from these projects in local communities and mitigate
potential impacts. Chevron is committed to protecting
human rights. Last year, we articulated our intentions in 
a Human Rights Statement and began employee training. 

Chevron is one of the world’s leading integrated energy companies.
Headquartered in San Ramon, California, we have a diverse, multicultural
workforce comprising approximately 56,000 employees. Our subsidiaries
conduct business in more than 180 countries. We operate across the entire
energy spectrum, producing and transporting crude oil and natural gas;
refining, marketing and distributing fuels and other energy products and
services; manufacturing and selling petrochemical products; generating
power; and developing and commercializing the energy resources of the
future, including biofuels and other renewables. 

Chevron posted better-than-targeted results for both
greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency. In addition,
our statement on climate change has been expanded to
build on our Fourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change. 
The statement conveys the company’s views on the
principles of economically sound climate policies. These
principles recognize, among other things, the need for
national frameworks and global engagement by the top
emitting countries of the world; broad, equitable treatment
of all emitting sectors of the economy; and actions to 
enable technology, maximize conservation and ensure
energy security. Given the potential widespread impacts 
to society, the costs, risks, trade-offs and uncertainties
associated with climate policies must be thoughtfully
assessed and openly communicated.

The approximately 56,000 people of Chevron work every
day to meet the challenge of providing the world with the
energy it needs to support human progress – and we do so 
in the right way. We strive for world-class performance
across every aspect of our business – from our technical 
and financial capabilities to our social and environmental
performance. We are optimistic about our future. To succeed
today and meet the challenges of tomorrow, we harness the
greatest source of energy in the world – human energy. 

Sincerely, 

Dave O’Reilly
April 2007

Our major business strategies are focused on developing leading integrated
positions in growth areas of the world, as well as investing in renewable
technologies. In 2006, Chevron operations averaged net daily production 
of 2.67 million barrels of oil-equivalent, with approximately 70 percent 
of the production occurring outside the United States in more than 20
different countries.

Upstream
Chevron’s upstream strategy is to grow profitably in core areas and build
new legacy positions. Major producing areas include Angola, Australia,
Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the Partitioned Neutral Zone, Thailand, the
United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela. Major exploration areas
include western Africa, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Gulf of Thailand, the
Norwegian Barents Sea, the international waters between Trinidad and
Tobago and Venezuela, the U.K. Atlantic Margin and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. 

We are also focused on commercializing our large equity natural gas resource
base while growing a high-impact global gas business. Chevron holds the
largest natural gas resource position in Australia and has other significant
holdings in western Africa, Kazakhstan, Latin America, North America 
and Thailand.

Downstream
Our focus in our downstream operations is to improve base business
returns and selectively grow with a focus on integrated value chain
creation. In 2006, we processed approximately 2 million barrels of crude 
oil per day and averaged approximately 3.6 million barrels per day of
refined products sales worldwide. Major areas of operation are in Asia, in
sub-Saharan Africa, on the U.S. Gulf Coast extending into Latin America,
and on the U.S. West Coast. We hold an interest in 20 fuel refineries and
have a fuels and lubricants marketing presence in approximately 175
countries. We market under the Chevron, Texaco and Caltex motor fuel
brands. Products are sold through a network of approximately 25,800 
retail outlets, including those of affiliate companies. 

Additional Businesses
Our businesses extend across the energy value chain. They include: Chevron
Energy Solutions Company; Chevron’s geothermal business; Chevron 
Global Power Generation; Chevron Technology Ventures; Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company, a 50-50 joint venture; and Chevron Oronite Company. 
More information on these businesses can be found on our Web site. [1]

Chevron is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. Additional information on our corporate structure, operations
and brands can be found on our Web site. [1]

[1] www.chevron.com/about/

www.chevron.com/operations/
www.chevron.com/brands/

3

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 4

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

How We Conduct Our Business

Fulfilling the Vision of The Chevron Way
The Chevron Way describes what we do,
what we believe and what we plan to
accomplish. It integrates corporate
responsibility into how we achieve business
success. The Chevron Way states our vision,
values and strategies and establishes a
common understanding not only for those of
us who work for Chevron, but also for all who
interact with us. To read more about The
Chevron Way, please visit our Web site. [1]

Our Priorities
Corporate responsibility is managed 
through our existing management 
systems, processes and policies. We review
our corporate responsibility elements
periodically to examine our progress and 
to identify emerging issues. To view these
elements, please visit our Web site. [2]
Based on this approach, we made several
changes to our list of priorities in 2006. 
The priorities discussed in this report are: 

(cid:2) Continuous integration of corporate

responsibility into our business

(cid:2) Global strategic workforce development
(cid:2) Stakeholder engagement
(cid:2) Health and safety, including HIV/AIDS
(cid:2) Community engagement
(cid:2) Human rights
(cid:2) Climate change, renewables and 

energy efficiency

(cid:2) Environmental management

“Global strategic workforce development”
was added to reflect the importance of
building a committed workforce. “HIV/AIDS”
is now included within “health and 
safety,” reflecting the ongoing global
implementation of our HIV/AIDS policy. 

Business and Management Systems 
Three of the central business and
management systems that underpin our
efforts to conduct our business in a
responsible and ethical manner are our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, Chevron
Business Conduct and Ethics Code, and
Operational Excellence Management System.
They are described below.

Corporate Governance 
Chevron has a long tradition of commitment
to good corporate governance. Directors are
elected annually, and committee assignments
and chair positions are routinely rotated. Four
new directors have been added since 2004. 
A lead director chairs executive sessions of
the independent directors and works with the
chairman on the schedule and agendas for
board meetings, as well as other matters. 

In 2006, we revised our Corporate
Governance Guidelines to provide greater
specificity about our ongoing director
education efforts, the board’s periodic review
of corporate governance documents, and our
goal of providing greater than 50 percent 
of board compensation in equity. 

The board also adopted the Policy on
Stockholder Proposals Receiving Majority
Approval, which provides for board
reconsideration of any proposal not
supported by the board that receives a
majority vote at the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. We routinely communicate 
with proponents of stockholder resolutions,
as noted in the Stakeholder Engagement
section on page 16.

We regularly review and assess governance
trends and revise our policies as appropriate.
Comprehensive information to investors 
and others on our governance practice is
available on our Web site. [3]

Business Ethics 
Chevron is committed to conducting
business with the highest ethical standards
and fully complying with all applicable laws
in the countries where we do business. The
Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code
(BC&E Code) outlines how we conduct
ourselves and our operations around the
world. All employees are required to read
and acknowledge that they will abide by the
BC&E Code, or take training on the code,
which has been translated into 11 languages.
The BC&E Code is periodically updated and
redeployed to our employees.

The BC&E Code requires that instances of
questionable conduct in any area be
reported to management, legal counsel, 
the appropriate operating organization’s
compliance committee or the Chevron
Hotline. We uphold our policy of protecting
whistle-blowers from retaliation. The BC&E
Code is available on our Web site. [4]

The Chevron Hotline is operated offsite by
Global Compliance Services (AlertLine®), an
independent agent. Any matter submitted 
to the Chevron Hotline may be made
anonymously. Individuals can contact the
Chevron Hotline using a multilingual phone
line, via the Internet or by letter, 24 hours a
day, seven days a week. All hotline matters
are reviewed by the corporation’s chief

CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CHEVRON

RESERVOIR MANAGEMENT IN KAZAKHSTAN

We define corporate responsibility as: 

(cid:2) Consistently applying our core values, set out 

in The Chevron Way.

(cid:2) Maximizing the positive impact of our operations 

on current and future generations.

(cid:2) Integrating social, environmental and economic

considerations into our core practices and 
decision making.

(cid:2) Engaging with and balancing the needs of 

our stakeholders.

Lead geologist Aigul Assaubaeva (center)
and geologist-mentor Gary Jacobs 
(right), of the Tengizchevroil reservoir
management team in Kazakhstan, study
3-D interpretations of subsurface geology
mapped from seismic data. Chevron is a 
50 percent partner in Tengizchevroil.

4

[1] www.chevron.com/about/chevron_way/     [2] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/ 

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 5

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

compliance officer and chief corporate
counsel and, if warranted, are elevated to the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

During 2006, we continued to more fully
implement OEMS through actions that
included the following: 

In 2006, AlertLine® received 262 hotline
calls in which allegations were made. While
the calls covered a wide variety of concerns,
the largest percentage pertained to three
classifications: 

(cid:2) People management issues 
(cid:2) Financial and internal controls
(cid:2) Environment, health and safety

62%
15%
6%

Our compliance program relies on shared
responsibility and is structured so that each
business unit is responsible for its own
compliance. The Corporate Compliance Policy
Committee, chaired by the vice chairman,
sets compliance policy for the corporation,
governs the compliance program, and
reviews the compliance activities of the
business units. The Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors reviews the company’s
internal auditing practices and is responsible
for corporate compliance oversight. 

Operational Excellence Management
System (OEMS)
OEMS is what we use to systematically
manage safety, health, the environment,
reliability and efficiency. Using OEMS, 
we integrate operational excellence (OE)
objectives, plans, processes and behaviors
into our daily operations to achieve 
world-class performance. 

(cid:2) Established an operational excellence 

governance board responsible for
endorsing policy, processes and standards
supported by the Health, Environment 
and Safety (HES) Steering Committee and
the Reliability Steering Committee. The
board is chaired by the HES vice president
and includes top managers of major
operating companies. 

(cid:2) Continued OE training and certification. 

By year-end, nearly 10,400 Chevron
employees had completed OE training 
for leaders, while 7,010 had achieved 
OE certification.

(cid:2) Released a new corporate standard

process for risk management, discussed 
in the Environmental Management section
of this report. 

(cid:2) Deployed an OEMS self-assessment tool 
to enable business unit leaders to assess
implementation against expectations.

(cid:2) Hosted the fourth annual OE Forum,

“Living OE for World-Class Performance.”
Employees from around the globe shared
implementation experiences and best
practices through presentations and
workshops. Senior leaders participated 
in the forum, reinforcing leadership
involvement and accountability. 

The Pembroke Refinery in Wales received one of
Chevron’s Zero Is Attainable awards for outstanding
safety performance during 2006. For 2005 through
2006, the refinery reported a Days Away From Work
Rate of zero, making a total of more than 6.5 million
hours without a Days Away From Work incident.

OE Vision
To be recognized and admired by industry 
and the communities in which we operate 
as world-class in safety, health, the
environment, reliability and efficiency.

OE Objectives 
(cid:2) Achieve an injury-free workplace.
(cid:2) Eliminate spills and environmental
incidents. Identify and mitigate key
environmental risks.

(cid:2) Promote a healthy workplace and mitigate

significant health risks.

(cid:2) Operate incident-free with industry-leading

asset reliability.

(cid:2) Maximize the efficient use of resources 

and assets.

“Chevron, as a top-tier U.S. integrated oil and gas company, is subject to a range of complex sustainability 

issues across its operations. Managing and mitigating these sustainability risks will be increasingly crucial 
for the company’s future competitiveness. Chevron is currently in the top quartile of all oil and gas companies
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, and has increased its score and been included in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index for North America for the past two years.

In the environmental area, Chevron’s performance has improved, particularly regarding biodiversity and
releases to the environment. In our view, Chevron should strengthen its focus and strategies toward carbon
emissions and climate change. In the social area, Chevron has relative strength against several of its peers 
and is markedly high on sustainability scoring for stakeholder engagement and corporate citizenship.”

Björn Tore Urdal, Senior Equity Analyst, Energy 
SAM Group and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes
December 2006

[3] www.chevron.com/investor/corporate_governance/

www.chevron.com/financialreports/ 
www.chevron.com/investor/corporate_governance/contact_board.asp

[4] www.chevron.com/biz_conduct/

5

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 6

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Performance Overview

Key Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators 

2005

2006

Page

Socioeconomic

Fatalities (workforce)

Days Away From Work Rate (workforce per 200,000 work hours)

Total Recordable Incident Rate (workforce per 200,000 work hours)

Company motor vehicle incidents (per million miles driven)

Percent of female and non-Caucasian males at the senior executive level worldwide

Percent of females at midlevel positions and above worldwide

Total corporatewide spending in community investment (US$ millions)

Environmental

Number of petroleum spills

Volume of petroleum spills (barrels)

Global VOCs emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Global SOx emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Global NOx emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Number of environmental, health and safety fines and settlements

Total GHG emissions (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent)
GHG emissions from flaring and venting (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent) 
Energy efficiency (Chevron Energy Index)

Goals are shown 
in brackets

12 [0]

0.09 [0.1]

0.42

0.82

1

21.4

10.3

90.8

803

6,099

384

118

138

699
61.92 [68.5]
16.1

73 [75]

6

0.12

0.41

3.65

19.4

9.8

73.1

846

47,934

469

119

122

577

59

14.7

76

18, 19

18, 19

18, 19

18, 19

15

15

22, 23

36–38

36–38

36, 37

36, 37

36, 37

38

30, 31

30, 31

30–32

Area of performance improvement Area of performance decline Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline

VOCs (volatile organic compounds)    SOx (sulfur oxides)    NOx (nitrogen oxides)

1 2006 data are based on a new classification system adopted by the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers and are no longer comparable to historical data.
2 Chevron’s net increase of approximately 3 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent emissions from 2005 to 2006 can be attributed primarily to accounting of emissions from former Unocal

assets for the full year of 2006, compared with just five months in 2005 (Chevron acquired Unocal in August 2005).

Below are brief summaries of performance
achievements and events in 2006 that
underscore our commitment to operating
in a responsible manner.

Corporate ESHIA
Developed in 2006, our integrated
Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) process was released 
as a corporate standard in January 2007. 
It will be implemented across the company
over three years. The ESHIA process will 
be applied to all new capital projects to
systematically identify, analyze and develop
measures to enhance project benefits 
and mitigate environmental, social and
health impacts.

Community Engagement
A record of nearly $91 million was invested
in community engagement initiatives, with
approximately 68 percent of these funds
used to help meet basic human needs,
provide education and career training, and
support local businesses. Initiatives were

under way in regions of Indonesia affected
by the 2004 tsunami to increase educational
levels and build economic capacity. We
reached agreements with eight communities
in Nigeria’s Niger Delta as part of a new
community engagement model. Stakeholder
engagement was at the center of initiatives
focused on employees and communities in
Angola. Chevron launched an $18 million
initiative to help support public education in
23 Louisiana and Mississippi school districts
affected by the 2005 hurricanes.

Climate Change and Energy Efficiency
Chevron continued to implement its Fourfold
Plan of Action on Climate Change, which is
now in its fifth year, to address climate change
issues. We emitted 61.9 million metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent, well under our goal of 
68.5 million metric tons. We continued working
toward our goal to eliminate routine flaring
and venting, where feasible. Our operations
were 27 percent more energy efficient per 
unit of output in 2006 than in 1992, when 
the Chevron Energy Index was established. 

Continued OEMS Implementation
During 2006, we continued to work to fully
and effectively implement our Operational
Excellence Management System (OEMS)
enterprisewide. We established an
operational excellence (OE) governance
board responsible for endorsing OE policy,
processes and decisions. A corporate
standard process for identifying and
managing risks, including those related to
health, the environment and safety, was
released companywide.

Renewable Energy and Biofuels
Renewable energy was added as the fourth 
key component of our corporate strategic
plan. A biofuels business unit was created to
advance technology and pursue commercial
opportunities related to ethanol and biodiesel.
We invested in a biodiesel facility in Galveston,
Texas, that will initially produce 20 million
gallons of fuel per year and has the 
potential capacity to produce 100 million
gallons per year. Several strategic research
alliances were established with government
and academic institutions to develop 
second-generation biofuels.

6

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 7

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Financial Highlights
US$ millions, except per-share amounts

Net income

Sales and other operating revenue
Capital and exploratory expenditures 1
Total assets at year-end

Total debt at year-end

Stockholders’ equity at year-end

Per-share data

– Net income – diluted

– Cash dividends

– Common stock price at year-end

Return on capital employed

Return on average stockholders’ equity

Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio

Tax expense

– U.S. income taxes

– International income taxes

– Taxes other than on income

Research and development

Stock repurchases

2005

2006

Operating Highlights2

$14,099 

$17,138

$193,641 $204,892

$11,063

$16,611

$125,833

$132,628

$12,870

$9,838

$62,676

$68,935

$6.54

$1.75

$56.77

21.9%

26.1%

17%

$7.80

$2.01

$73.53

22.6%

26%

12.5%

$2,435

$8,663

$3,609

$11,229

$20,782

$20,883

$316

$468

$3,000

$5,000

Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids
(thousands of barrels per day)

Net production of natural gas 
(millions of cubic feet per day)

Net oil-equivalent production
(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day)

Refinery input (thousands of barrels per day)
Sales of refined products 3
Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate 

(thousands of barrels per day)

and natural gas liquids (millions of barrels)

– Consolidated companies

– Affiliated companies
Net proved reserves of natural gas 4
(billions of cubic feet)

2005

2006

1,669

1,732

4,233

4,956

2,517

2,667

1,883

3,725

1,989

3,621

5,626

2,374

5,294

2,512

– Consolidated companies

– Affiliated companies
Net proved oil-equivalent reserves 4
– Consolidated companies

– Affiliated companies

(millions of barrels)

Number of employees at year-end

Total payroll (millions of dollars)

Employee benefit costs (millions of dollars)

20,466

2,968

19,910

2,974

9,037

2,869
5
53,440

$3,151

$1,777

8,612

3,008

55,882

6

$3,500

$1,742

Includes equity in affiliates 

1
2 Includes equity in affiliates except number of employees, total payroll and employee benefit costs
3 2005 conformed to 2006 presentation

4 At year-end
5 Excludes approximately 6,000 service station personnel
6 Excludes approximately 6,600 service station personnel

Board Adoption of Majority Vote Policy
In 2006, the board adopted the Policy on
Stockholder Proposals Receiving Majority
Approval for inclusion in the Corporate
Governance Guidelines. This policy provides
for board reconsideration of any proposal
not supported by the board that receives 
a majority vote. 

Health and Safety
Implementation of our HIV/AIDS policy
continued. Existing programs that address
road safety and contractor safety were
strengthened. New initiatives were
developed to heighten employees’
awareness of cardiovascular health and to
respond to health emergencies. Despite a
high priority given to safety, there were 
12 workforce fatalities in 2006. Chevron
continues to vigorously review the root
causes of major incidents or near misses 
and incorporate the results of the reviews
into the OEMS improvement process.

Performance Recognition
During 2006, Chevron gained recognition
for its practices and performance from 
a number of independent organizations.

(cid:2) The Carbon Disclosure Project, which
represents 225 leading institutional
investors with assets of $31 trillion, 
ranked Chevron as one of the top five
international oil and gas companies in 
its Climate Leadership Index for taking
“best in class” actions to address 
global climate change. This is the 
third consecutive year Chevron has
received the ranking.

(cid:2) For the second year in a row, 

Chevron was the only major U.S. oil 
and gas company to be included in 
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
for North America.

(cid:2) Chevron was ranked in the top tier 
of North American integrated oil
companies by the Goldman Sachs
Environment, Social and Governance
Framework.

(cid:2) Chevron earned a rating of 100 percent

on the Human Rights Campaign’s
Corporate Equality Index for the 
second straight year. Our handbook 
for negotiating transgender issues was 
cited as a model for other companies.

(cid:2) In 2006, Institutional Shareholder
Services rated Chevron in the top 
4 percent of oil and gas companies in
terms of corporate governance. Chevron
also received a rating of 9.5 out of 10
from GovernanceMetrics International. 

(cid:2) For the fourth consecutive year, the

Women’s Business Enterprise National
Council named Chevron one of the top
U.S. corporations for providing growth
opportunities to women business
owners. Chevron is the first oil and 
gas company to receive this award.

(cid:2) The U.S. Department of Energy Annual
Merit Review recognized Chevron as
“best in class” for our work in the 
area of hydrogen infrastructure
technology validation. 

7

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 8

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Priorities, Progress and Plans

PRIORITY AREA

WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO IN 2006

Continuous Integration of
Corporate Responsibility
Into Our Business
Page 4

Global Strategic 
Workforce Development
Page 14

Stakeholder Engagement
Page 16

Health and Safety 
(including HIV/AIDS)
Page 18

Community Engagement
Page 22

(cid:2) Deploy a self-assessment process that business unit leaders will use to

assess their Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS)
implementation against expectations, supplementing corporate reviews.

(cid:2) Make training available to business units.

(cid:2) Continue to develop a talent-sourcing initiative to recruit from a wider
range of universities and colleges worldwide and increase hiring of
experienced people. 

(cid:2) Create leadership development programs throughout the company in

addition to supporting existing programs. 

(cid:2) Conduct a Pulse Survey with a random sample of employees worldwide 

to assess their level of engagement. 

(cid:2) Continue regular stakeholder consultations on key issues. 
(cid:2) Make stakeholder engagement guide available to business units. 
(cid:2) Participate in formulating recommendations by the International Advisory
Group (IAG) of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) for
presentation to the global EITI conference in late 2006 to promote wider
acceptance of EITI among resource-rich nations. 

(cid:2) Continue to improve annual corporate responsibility reporting and align

publication with Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 

(cid:2) Continue to focus on safety, aiming to meet short-term performance targets

and the long-term goal of zero incidents.

(cid:2) Develop action plans and timelines that will focus on the HIV/AIDS-related

needs of our local workforces.

(cid:2) Develop standardized training curricula for management and employees, 

and develop principles for offering HIV/AIDS testing and treatment to
employees and their dependents.

(cid:2) Increase the portion of our community investment targeted toward 

capacity building and economic development programs. 

(cid:2) Continue to develop measurement tools that enable evaluation of our
community engagement efforts, including engagement through the 
ESHIA process. 

(cid:2) Continue to develop workshops and training to build the capability to

effectively implement our community engagement theme.

Human Rights
Page 25

(cid:2) Develop practical training to support our Human Rights Statement’s

deployment. The training will be designed to enhance awareness of human
rights and further explain Chevron’s support for universal human rights.

Climate Change, Renewables 
and Energy Efficiency
Page 30

(cid:2) Complete greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions forecast.
(cid:2) Begin operation of the Darajat Unit 3 geothermal project in Indonesia.
(cid:2) Continue to install energy efficiency improvements and alternative energy
technologies at U.S. institutions and businesses through Chevron Energy
Solutions Company.

Environmental Management
Page 35

8

(cid:2) Continue implementation of environmental expectations through OEMS,
including global collection of data on hazardous waste and oil discharges
to water.

(cid:2) Develop and deploy additional standards as needed.
(cid:2) Demonstrate continual improvement in environmental performance.

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 9

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

WHAT WE DID IN 2006

WHAT WE PLAN TO DO NEXT

(cid:2) Deployed OEMS self-assessment process.
(cid:2) Continued OEMS training and certification.
(cid:2) Established OE governance board.
(cid:2) Focused on implementing corporate responsibility (CR) through existing 

business processes rather than a separate program.

(cid:2) Developed Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) 

process as a corporate standard for new projects.

(cid:2) Continue with OEMS implementation across the company.
(cid:2) Begin rollout of ESHIA across our global operations.
(cid:2) Continue utilizing OEMS self-assessment process.

(cid:2) Retooled global recruitment strategy to attract additional talent, including 

talent from a wider range of universities and colleges worldwide.

(cid:2) Introduced new training opportunities for new and experienced employees.
(cid:2) Conducted a 2006 Pulse Survey with a random sample of 25 percent of employees.
(cid:2) Created three leadership development programs to support existing programs.

(cid:2) Increase communication on our record of responsible corporate
actions and policies, together with our business strategies, in 
recruiting efforts.

(cid:2) Deploy leadership development programs.
(cid:2) Conduct a Global Employee Survey with targeted questions on

what makes employees stay with the company.

(cid:2) Distributed stakeholder engagement guide to business units.
(cid:2) Participated in formulation of IAG recommendations for EITI.
(cid:2) Aligned publication of annual CR report with Annual Meeting of Stockholders
and sought input from stakeholders and other interested persons on ways to
make the 2006 report more effective.

(cid:2) Continue aligning our CR and annual reporting processes.
(cid:2) Continue engaging with stakeholders to improve our CR reporting.
(cid:2) Use ESHIA process to further strengthen stakeholder engagement. 
(cid:2) Conduct stakeholder engagement training and make tools available 

to business units.

(cid:2) Continue posting corporate political contributions made during the 

previous year on www.chevron.com. 
[Contributions were first posted in February 2007.]

(cid:2) Released a corporate standard process for managing risks at facilities, including

health, environmental and safety risks.

(cid:2) Continue safety focus, aiming toward long-term goal of zero incidents.
(cid:2) Continue companywide deployment of corporate standard process for 

(cid:2) Continued HIV/AIDS training and sharing voluntary testing and treatment

managing risk.

guidelines with our physicians companywide. Established a permanent office for
HIV/AIDS. Published training materials in 10 languages.

(cid:2) Formed public-private coalitions in four countries to improve road safety through

the Arrive Alive initiative.

(cid:2) Continue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy.
(cid:2) Collaborate with other companies to implement health initiatives, such 
as programs that are part of the Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa
and the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.

(cid:2) Initiated cardiovascular health program.
(cid:2) Hosted fourth annual OE Forum for employees worldwide to share best practices.

(cid:2) Continue implementing the Arrive Alive road safety initiative.
(cid:2) Host fifth annual OE Forum.

(cid:2) Increased capacity building and economic development programs to approximately 

(cid:2) Increase community investment in capacity building and economic

68 percent of total investments in community engagement initiatives.

development programs.

(cid:2) Developed tools for monitoring selected community engagement programs.
(cid:2) Developed a community engagement practitioners’ network. 
(cid:2) Continued to develop Regional Development Councils (RDCs) in Nigeria’s Niger Delta 

(cid:2) Continue developing our community engagement tool kit.
(cid:2) With rollout of companywide ESHIA, continue developing tools for

social impact assessments and deliver training.

in partnership with local stakeholders.

(cid:2) Continued support for communities affected by the natural disasters in 2004 and 2005.

(cid:2) Expand community engagement practitioners’ network.
(cid:2) Continue working with RDCs to create three-year development plans.

(cid:2) Launched training program for employees to enhance their understanding 
of human rights in the context of Chevron’s role as a member of society. 
More than 1,200 employees completed the training.

(cid:2) Held training workshop for our global security advisors on the Voluntary

Principles on Security and Human Rights.

(cid:2) Served on the core committee of the Global Sullivan Principles.

(cid:2) Continue rollout of Chevron’s Human Rights Statement,
including employee training, over the next three years.

(cid:2) Completed GHG emissions forecast.
(cid:2) Performed better than our GHG emissions and energy efficiency goals.
(cid:2) Formed strategic alliances with government, academic and other institutions 

to focus on emerging technologies.
(cid:2) Established new biofuels business unit.
(cid:2) Began working with California state officials and business community to help design the
overall framework for a GHG regulatory program mandated by new GHG emissions law.

(cid:2) Continue implementing Fourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change.
(cid:2) Continue to partner in developing technologies, such as biofuels and

market-based mechanisms, to reduce GHG emissions.

(cid:2) Begin operation of Darajat Unit 3 geothermal project in Indonesia.
(cid:2) Continue to work with California state officials and business

community to understand technological possibilities for success 
and consider economic trade-offs needed to meet GHG emissions 
law mandates.

(cid:2) Began collecting baseline data across all operations to track water and 

waste performance.

(cid:2) Issued new standards such as third-party waste stewardship and ESHIA.
(cid:2) Demonstrated continual improvement in performance. 

(cid:2) Implement corporate ESHIA and third-party waste standard.
(cid:2) Continue companywide OEMS alignment with ISO 14001 and 

OHSAS 18001 standards.

(cid:2) Continue to compile and analyze environmental data, including water

and waste data, across our operations to evaluate performance.

9

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 10

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

An Interview With Our Vice Chairman

Peter J. Robertson is vice chairman of the
board of Chevron Corporation. In addition 
to his responsibilities as a corporate officer,
he is directly responsible for Strategic
Planning; Policy, Government and Public
Affairs; and Human Resources. He also
chairs the Global Issues Committee. In this
section, Mr. Robertson gives his views on
several key issues.

“Operating in a responsible 
and ethical manner lies at the
heart of our value system 
and, combined with superior
technology and world-class
execution, underpins our
success. This is critical today
because we live in an era of
global energy interdependence.
All of us – producers, consumers
and governments – must work
together to produce and
conserve the energy needed to
sustain economic growth and
advance human development.”

10

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 11

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

How do Chevron’s responsible business practices help it meet the
challenges of supplying energy to meet the world’s rising demand?

PJR: Our practices help us both deliver on our business objectives
and make sustainable contributions in the countries where we
work. Operating in a responsible and ethical manner lies at the
heart of our value system and, combined with superior technology
and world-class execution, underpins our success. This is critical
today because we live in an era of global energy interdependence.
All of us – producers, consumers and governments – must work
together to produce and conserve the energy needed to sustain
economic growth and advance human development.

To meet the projected global demand for energy, we need to 
make full use of today’s energy sources while simultaneously
developing the next generation of resources. In the future, 
we’ll need contributions from the entire energy portfolio. Many 
of our newer sources of hydrocarbons are located in technically
challenging environments. Other new potential energy sources,
such as second-generation biofuels and coal-to-liquids, require
research and technology to secure commercial viability. We are
confident that, guided by our vision, values and strategy, we will
meet these challenges.

What is Chevron doing to help people in countries where 
it operates?

PJR: Chevron can be a constructive player, together with
governments and civil society, in helping the economic benefits 
of energy flow to all stakeholders. However, we can’t do this 
alone. The socioeconomic issues facing some energy-producing
nations are staggering. The solutions are not easy. They require
accountability and an integrated approach that brings together
local, national and international institutions. At Chevron, we
support initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative, which promotes transparency through the public
disclosure of payments made by companies and revenues received
by countries. We support capacity building programs, such as 
the Politeknik Caltex Riau, a polytechnic university in Indonesia
that helps students develop a range of engineering, business and
vocational skills. We also develop partnerships with governments,
communities and nongovernmental organizations to enhance 
local communities’ ability to direct their own economic development.
Investing in people – both our employees and our communities – 
is one way we can make a sustainable contribution to our 
collective future.

Does Chevron believe that climate change is real, and what 
is it doing about it?

PJR: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the leading
scientific body with expertise in this area, believes our climate
system is warming. The panel has concluded that atmospheric
concentrations of greenhouse gases are rising, very likely due to
human activities. While the use of fossil fuels contributes to these
emissions, other factors are important too, including land use
changes and agricultural activities.

In our own operations, we have initially focused on reducing our
own emissions, principally by improving our energy efficiency. We
are also progressing several flaring and venting reduction projects
that will, when completed over the next few years, reduce our GHG
emissions. Finally, we have developed a set of principles to guide
flexible and economically sound policy actions on climate change.
We are actively working with policy makers as they tackle this
complex issue.

Chevron is primarily an oil and gas company. Is Chevron really
committed to developing renewables?

PJR: Absolutely. While our predominant line of business remains
exploring for, producing and marketing products developed from
crude oil and natural gas, we are making investments in renewable
energy. From 2002 to 2006, we invested nearly $2 billion in
renewable and alternative energy, including energy efficiency
services, and expect to invest more than $2.5 billion from 
2007 through 2009. To advance the development of renewable
transportation fuels, we have developed research alliances 
with several prominent institutions and established a biofuels
business unit.

In addition, energy efficiency and conservation cannot and should
not be overlooked. They are currently the most plentiful form of
“new” energy. We are the only integrated energy company with a
subsidiary – Chevron Energy Solutions – dedicated to helping
others become more energy efficient.

Do governments have a role to play in meeting these energy
challenges?

PJR: Without a doubt, yes. Tomorrow’s energy supplies must 
not only be affordable and reliable, but cleaner than ever before.
Governments can play a role in stimulating the development 
and deployment of new energy technologies such as carbon
sequestration, next-generation ethanol fuels, and advanced battery
systems. In many cases, it is impossible to commercialize promising
technologies without government support and partnership. As one
of the largest energy consumers in the United States, the U.S.
government can set an example by requiring agencies to use less
energy, providing incentives to increase energy efficiency and
promoting conservation efforts.

More fundamental, governments have a responsibility to lead open
and honest debates on how to balance continued economic growth
with our shared desire to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. After
all, energy is more than mobility, light and heat. It is a fundamental
driver of global economic growth and opportunity. Policy makers
must articulate solutions that will enable both goals to be reached
or be prepared to propose sensible trade-offs. Policies geared
toward absolutes – economic growth regardless of environmental
consequences or emissions reduction at any cost – are bound to be
unsustainable. Ultimately, we must all be better informed and learn
about these issues. On Chevron’s part, I invite you to join in the
dialogue on energy issues at www.willyoujoinus.com.

11

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 12

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Socioeconomic

On the following pages, we summarize our 2006 socioeconomic performance
and discuss our progress in workforce development, stakeholder engagement,
health and safety, supply chain management, community engagement, and
human rights. We also take a look at our Southern Africa strategic business
unit’s socioeconomic performance in Angola. 

In each of these areas, our efforts are guided by our conviction that
partnerships benefit the communities in which we operate and contribute 
to more stable and secure energy supplies.

12

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 13

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

“ PARTNERSHIP IS AT THE HEART

OF OUR APPROACH TO COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT. WE WORK
CLOSELY WITH GOVERNMENTS,
COMMUNITIES, NONGOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS, ACADEMIC
INSTITUTIONS AND OTHER
STAKEHOLDERS TO DEVELOP,
IMPLEMENT AND EVALUATE
OUR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
INVESTING IN AND COLLABORATING
WITH PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES
LEADS TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
AND PROSPERITY, WHICH BENEFITS
EVERYONE.” 

NADEEM ANWAR
MANAGER, COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT ADVISORS
CHEVRON CORPORATION

Working with local governments and communities, Chevron is helping establish a pioneering cassava agribusiness for
local farmers near the company’s Tiwi and Mak-Ban geothermal operations in the Philippines. Farmer Danilo Escobar
(above) removes weeds and grass from idle land planned for cassava production. To learn more about this project,
please see “Measuring Success” on page 24.

13

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 14

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Global Strategic Workforce Development

Recruiting and retaining a world-class global
workforce is critical to our business success.
Growth in energy demand and higher 
energy prices have increased the industry’s
investment activities, leading to greater
competition for skilled people. During 
2006, we continued building our workforce
capabilities and developing national talent in
the countries where we operate through our
Invest in People strategy, discussed below.

Today, we have employees in 118 countries
around the world and approximately 30
projects in which Chevron’s share is more than
$1 billion. New talent is being hired at a rate
significantly higher than two years ago. The
core of our experienced workforce is retiring
in increasing numbers. At the same time, our
investments are occurring in increasingly
diverse geographies. In 2006, 46 percent 
of our employees worked in U.S. operations,
compared with 73 percent seven years ago. 

Invest in People Strategy
Our Invest in People strategy is designed 
to attract global talent and continue our
investment in existing employees. To support
this objective, in 2006 we established
standards, metrics and governance guidelines
for four core talent management processes:
bringing new employees onboard, performance
management, assessment of employee
potential and leadership development.

Attracting Global Talent
In 2006, we retooled our global recruitment
efforts, including redesigning Internet and

print materials, and improving online
recruiting tools. We expanded our
recruitment efforts into countries such as
India, South Africa and Thailand, where there
are potential employees with key skill sets.
We hired significantly more people in 2006
than in 2005, including approximately 3,500
in the United States and approximately 2,300
in non-U.S. locations. At the end of 2006,
approximately 94.6 percent of our employees
were working within their home countries.

Investing in Our Employees
Retaining and developing our employees
throughout their entire careers is crucial to
ensuring that our workforce continues to
meet our evolving business needs. In 2006,
we developed new training opportunities 
for new and experienced employees and
supervisors. These will be launched in 2007
and include:

(cid:2) U.S. and international versions of

Horizons, an accelerated development
program to build the competency of
upstream technical employees with fewer
than five years of industry experience. 
The program has been restructured and
standardizes pre-existing versions of
Horizons to provide all participants with
the same development and training
opportunities worldwide.

(cid:2) The Pathways program, designed to 

assess technical competencies, establish
development plans, provide technical 
and nontechnical training, and provide
opportunities for career growth for

upstream technical employees with more
than five years of industry experience. The
program is aligned with the development
goals of the Horizons program.

An important element of our Invest in
People strategy is to develop leaders who
deliver superior results in our culturally
diverse, global company. In 2006, plans were
put in place to require all managers and
supervisors to participate in three newly
developed leadership programs starting in
2007. These mandatory programs are
designed to standardize leadership training
companywide to enable leaders to develop
similar skills that support high performance
from employees regardless of location.

Selected senior leaders continued to attend
the Chevron Advanced Management
program, a two-month-long development
program to advance their strategic thinking
and global mindset. Participants take on
action-learning projects challenging them 
to analyze specific business issues. 

In addition, International Mentoring
Excellence in Technology, part of the Chevron
Fellows program, was launched in early 2007
as a parallel program to the existing North
America version. It provides group and
individual mentoring to develop leadership
skills for employees outside North America 
in technical fields. The Chevron Fellows
program recognizes employees for technical
accomplishments and proactively advances
the company’s technical competencies.

Global Workforce at Year-End 2006
Geographic breakdown

WORKING OUTSIDE ONE’S HOME COUNTRY

North America 
47.4% 

Asia-Pacific 
26.3%

Africa 
13%

Europe/Middle East
8.5%

South America
4.8%

With employees in 118 countries, Chevron
provides its global workforce with
opportunities outside their home countries.
Iman Al Husaini, an employee of Chevron
subsidiary Saudi Arabian Chevron Inc., 
was on assignment as a Global Gas portfolio
advisor in San Ramon, California, during 2006.

At the end of 2006, our worldwide staffing was 55,882, excluding service station employees. This represents an increase 
of 4.6 percent over the previous year. Approximately 15.7 percent of our U.S. workforce is represented by unions.

14

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 15

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

New Energy Technology Centers
In 2006, Chevron Energy Technology
Company (ETC) announced the opening 
of energy technology centers in Aberdeen,
Scotland, and Perth, Australia. The two
centers, which opened in 2006 and early
2007, respectively, will provide research,
development and technical services to
Chevron’s worldwide operations. The
majority of the 100 technology professionals
at each center are expected to be hired
regionally. Recruitment campaigns are under
way to hire experienced professionals and
university students in such fields as geology;
geophysics; and petroleum, process and
facilities engineering. 

Supporting Diversity
Supporting diversity and fostering inclusion
are part of The Chevron Way and our Invest
in People strategy. As of 2006, we have 
10 officially recognized employee networks,
including ones focused on gender, race,
sexual orientation, age, disability and
national origin. Each network welcomes 
any employee who supports its mission.

Chevron also tracks a variety of metrics 
that help us understand our progress on our
diversity goals. We report on a selection of
these in the charts below.

Mark Shalz (above), a rock mechanics technician, and more than 250 other Chevron employees from around the
world attended the fourth annual Career Expo in San Ramon, California, in October 2006. The expo provided
employees with information on such topics as career growth, the expatriate experience and career opportunities
across Chevron’s businesses and operations. 

Conducting Employee Surveys 
Chevron routinely conducts surveys to
understand what makes employees choose to
stay with the company and what keeps them
engaged in their work. Some business units
also conduct unit-specific surveys to assess
the need for local programs. For example, in
2006, our energy technology and information
technology companies implemented programs

that addressed performance and work-life
balance issues, factors identified in surveys
as among those most relevant for people to
remain in their jobs. Our 2006 Pulse Survey
was distributed to a random sample of 
25 percent of employees worldwide and had
a 67 percent response. In 2007, questions 
on these and related issues will be included
in our Global Employee Survey. 

Global Diversity

Employee Surveys

Women in total workforce

Women represented at midlevel and above

Women and non-Caucasian men represented at 
senior executive level

20051

20.6%

9.8%

2006

21.5%

10.3%

19.4%

21.4%

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics

Minorities among total employees 

Women among total employees 

Minorities among officials and managers 

Women among officials and managers

Minorities among professionals 

Women among professionals 

2005

2006

31%

32.2%

29% 28.3%

20%

21%

24%

28%

27.4%

21%

26.1%

30.7%

I believe strongly in the goals and 
objectives of Chevron

I am proud to be a part 
of Chevron 

Chevron is a company that cares 
about the health and well-being 
of employees 

I find it difficult to effectively manage 
both my work demands and my 
personal or family needs

2004 2

20053

20063

87%

9 1%

93%

87%

89%

92%

80%

83%

87%

33%

35%

32%

1 2005 data have been revised to reflect improvements in our

human resources reporting system.

2 Global Employee Survey (sent to all employees worldwide) 
3 Pulse Survey (sent to a random sample of employees worldwide)

15

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 16

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Stakeholder Engagement

Listening to and working with our
stakeholders in a constructive manner
informs our decision making. Our vision is 
to earn the admiration of our stakeholders
not only for the goals we achieve but how
we achieve them. In 2006, we took a number
of steps to further integrate stakeholder
engagement into our business processes 
and management systems. 

ESHIA was adopted for deployment as 
a corporate standard in January 2007. 

Engaging with community members, local
officials, nongovernmental organizations 
and others early and often throughout the
life span of a project is central to the ESHIA
process. We engage with stakeholders as
part of the process to: 

ESHIA 
Engaging with stakeholders is important for
identifying and responding to issues that
have the potential to affect communities 
and our operating environment. Our
Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) process is a strategic
tool to manage issues that arise and foster
local support for our operations. This
scaleable process requires capital projects 
to be evaluated for potential environmental,
social and health impacts, and appropriate
mitigation measures to be developed. ESHIA
is used to anticipate and plan the manner 
in which impacts are mitigated and benefits
enhanced during the planning, construction,
operation and decommissioning of a project.

(cid:2) Identify the most significant impacts of 
a project and their relative importance.
(cid:2) Identify potential stakeholders to assist 
in the design and implementation of
mitigation strategies.

(cid:2) Build constructive and harmonious 

long-term relationships with neighbors
and other stakeholders.

To read more about how stakeholder
engagement contributes to all phases of 
the ESHIA process, please see our Angola
Case Study on page 26.

Stockholder Proposals 
Chevron received nine stockholder proposals
for the 2007 proxy season. We engaged with

proponents of seven of the proposals and
came to mutual agreements that led to the
withdrawal of two. The first proposal was 
to report on political contributions and 
the second would eliminate supermajority
voting provisions in our certificate of
incorporation. Proposals not withdrawn will
be put to a stockholder vote at the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders in April 2007. 

Revenue Transparency 
Chevron supports greater transparency 
of payments made by extractive industries
to governments in resource-rich countries
and of revenues received by those
governments. We believe that greater
transparency will result in a more stable,
long-term investment climate and higher
levels of accountability for the effective 
use of the revenues. In 2006, we continued
to participate in the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative (EITI) as a member 
of EITI’s International Advisory Group 
(IAG). Chevron contributed to the
recommendations that were presented 
to the international EITI conference in 
Oslo, Norway. 

RAISING AWARENESS OF GLOBAL ENERGY ISSUES

Willyoujoinus.com continues to raise
awareness of and provide a forum to discuss
global energy issues. By 2006, people from
190 countries had visited the site to
contribute their viewpoints on topics
ranging from energy interdependence to 
the role of nuclear power. A site study
conducted in early 2006 showed that 
78 percent of visitors say the site is 

“excellent” or “good,” and 69 percent 
say they are more informed about energy
issues as a result of visiting the site. 
At the end of each debate, the Aspen
Institute, an international nonprofit
organization dedicated to fostering 
open-minded dialogue, provides 
a discussion analysis for the online
community and visitors to the site.

16

[1] www.chevron.com/news/speeches/2006/2006-10-16_robertson.asp 

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 17

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

To view Chevron Vice Chairman Peter
Robertson’s speech at the Oslo conference,
please visit our Web site. [1] The final IAG
report, including the Validation Guide, can 
be viewed on the EITI Web site. [2] 

The measure lacked fiscal accountability 
and would have made the state more reliant
on imported oil by creating a disincentive 
to future investments in the state’s oil
production.

By policy, CEPAC does not contribute to
presidential candidates or political parties. 
A listing of federal contributions made during
this election cycle can be viewed on the
Federal Election Commission Web site. [4] 

Political Contributions
Chevron has strict policies and internal
approval processes, which comply with the
letter and spirit of all laws, to guide our
political contributions decisions. By law, all
contributions are reported in the applicable
jurisdiction where the contribution is made.
In 2006, we made nearly $43.5 million 
in corporate political contributions to
candidates and political organizations 
that support economic development, free
enterprise and good governance. This total
included contributions to support our views
on local and state ballot measures.

In 2006, we were a supporter of a successful
effort to defeat California’s Proposition 87. 
It proposed that a new tax be levied on oil
produced in the state, with up to $4 billion 
of proceeds to be used to promote the
development and use of alternative fuels.

Every political contribution we make is
subject to a thorough review process.
Contributions are planned, budgeted, 
legally reviewed and approved in advance 
by management, including approval by the
Executive Committee. 

In February 2007, we posted a list of our
corporate political contributions made
during the previous year on our external
Web site. [3] 

During the 2005–2006 election cycle, 
the Chevron Employees Political Action
Committee (CEPAC) contributed $536,200 
to the U.S. election of candidates for 
federal office from both parties, as well as 
to local and state candidates in jurisdictions
where direct corporate contributions are 
not permitted. 

Lobbying
It will take a strong, coordinated response 
by everyone in the energy value chain –
producers, consumers and policy makers alike
– to meet the growing demand for energy. 
As a stakeholder in that value chain, we have
a responsibility and a right to advocate our
position on proposed policies that will have an
impact on our ability to respond to that need. 

Lobbying is an essential and constructive
part of the political process. We work
ethically, constructively and in a bipartisan
manner through direct communication with
public officials and by encouraging our
employees, stockholders and others to
communicate with those officials, where
permitted by law. Chevron complies with 
all registration and reporting regulations
related to our lobbying activities.

Stakeholder

Profile

How we engaged in 2006

Stockholders

Registered and beneficial stockholders of record

Employees

Approximately 56,000 Chevron employees (as of
December 31, 2006) 

(cid:2) Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
(cid:2) Discussions with proponents of stockholder proposals 

(cid:2) Employee Pulse Survey 
(cid:2) Compliance hotline 
(cid:2) Chevron ombudsperson 
(cid:2) Worldwide employee teleconference with senior management 
(cid:2) Monthly chairman’s letter 
(cid:2) Employee networks 

Suppliers

Approximately $30 billion spent globally on goods and
services in 2006 with a network of suppliers that range
from multinational companies to small, locally owned
businesses

(cid:2) U.S. and non-U.S. small business, supplier diversity and local content

programs (see page 21)

(cid:2) Supplier development forums 
(cid:2) Participation in supplier-oriented organizations 

Governments

Governments in approximately 180 countries where 
we conduct business

(cid:2) Negotiating production contracts 
(cid:2) Collaborating on global voluntary initiatives such as the Extractive

Customers

Commodity markets, wholesale and retail customers

Local communities

Numerous communities around the world where
Chevron’s facilities are located

Industries Transparency Initiative

(cid:2) Technology transfer
(cid:2) Promoting road safety through Arrive Alive
(cid:2) Paying taxes 

(cid:2) Regional and in-country customer service support offices 
(cid:2) U.S. Retail Marketing Center and U.S. Consumer Connection Center

(cid:2) Community engagement programs and outreach 
(cid:2) Involving communities before and during new major capital projects
(cid:2) Employee volunteerism

Nongovernmental
organizations

Numerous business forums, multilateral institutions,
philanthropic foundations, academic institutions, think
tanks, faith-based groups, and development organizations

(cid:2) Participation in multistakeholder forums and initiatives 
(cid:2) Attendance at conferences and meetings 
(cid:2) Direct dialogue 

[2] www.eitransparency.org/     [3] www.chevron.com/investor/corporate_governance/political_contributions.asp     [4] www.fec.gov/

17

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 18

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Health and Safety

Chevron strives to achieve world-class
health and safety performance through-
out its operations through leadership
accountability, management system
processes and operational excellence.

In 2006, our focus continued on improving
the health and safety of our workforce and
the communities in which we operate. In
addition, we expanded global implementation
of our HIV/AIDS policy and strengthened
existing programs that address road and
contractor safety. We also initiated programs
to heighten employees’ awareness of
cardiovascular health. 

Reducing All Incidents to Zero
Safety is our highest priority. Our workforce
Days Away From Work Rate fell by 25 percent
from 2005, our fifth consecutive year of
improvement. While the workforce Total
Recordable Incident Rate was up 2 percent
from the previous year, we continue to move
toward world-class performance. Despite 
our best efforts, 12 people died in 2006
while working on our behalf, including 
one employee and 11 contractors. Chevron
continues to vigorously review the root
causes of major incidents and near misses
and incorporate the results of the review into
the OEMS improvement process. We are
committed to reducing fatalities, and all
incidents, to zero (see charts on page 19). 

Our Zero Is Attainable award program 
is designed to recognize business units 
that demonstrate outstanding safety
performance by completing 1 million hours
or 1,000 days worked with no workforce
Days Away From Work incidents. In 2006, 
79 facilities worldwide received this award. 

Enhancing Contractor Safety
Contractors represent a large percentage of
our total workforce hours, making their safety
an important issue. OEMS sets expectations
for all business units to have a contractor
safety management program in place that
includes engagement, clearly established
accountability and written processes. Many
business units regularly convene contractor
safety forums to share best practices. 

Promoting Road Safety
Road safety is an important issue, not 
only for our company, but also for many 
of the countries where we operate. In 2006,
we revised the type of data collected on
motor vehicle incidents to align with the
International Association of Oil & Gas
Producers’ new classification system. This
change enables us to more consistently
classify and understand the cause of the
most serious work-related incidents and
compare our performance with others in 
the industry. Over the past five years,
workforce fatalities related to motor vehicle
incidents have decreased by 90 percent
across our operations. 

We continue to work with governments,
nongovernmental organizations and the
private sector to expand and strengthen
Arrive Alive, a road safety initiative designed
to eliminate traffic-related fatalities and
injuries among employees, contractors 
and members of the communities in which
we operate. Arrive Alive programs in
Guatemala, Nigeria, South Africa and
Uganda began implementing road safety
action plans in 2006 that included helping
establish or joining nonprofit organizations
to promote road safety.

In addition to this effort, Chevron and 
its partners are identifying other activities
to promote road safety, including:

(cid:2) Providing road safety education in 
schools and through the media.

(cid:2) Assisting government enforcement

agencies with sharing best practices 
from other countries; from our health,
environment and safety group; and from
partner organizations.

(cid:2) Assisting these same government

agencies to promote compliance with
existing traffic laws by providing expertise
and nonmonetary resources, such as
helping identify appropriate systems and
equipment that can include signage, radar
guns and Breathalyzer® devices.

Promoting Cardiovascular Health
Cardiovascular-related illnesses are
projected to be the world’s leading cause 
of death and disability by 2020, according 
to the World Health Organization. They
present a health risk to our global workforce.
Our new cardiovascular health program is
designed to increase awareness and offer
practical steps for employees to reduce
cardiovascular risk. The program provides
educational materials and resources on 
the leading causes of cardiovascular illness,
such as elevated blood pressure, cholesterol,
stress, poor nutrition and excess weight.

HIV/AIDS Policy Implementation
The long-term goal of our global HIV/AIDS
policy is to secure treatment for employees
and covered dependents wherever and
whenever appropriate medical infrastructure
exists and national laws permit. 

18

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 19

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

In 2006, we continued to implement the
policy through training programs, sharing
voluntary testing and treatment guidelines
with our physicians companywide, and
establishing a permanent office of HIV/AIDS.

All managers and supervisors are expected
to take HIV/AIDS training. In 2006, training
was released to all locations worldwide.
Approximately 3,600 managers and super-
visors and 4,800 employees participated in
either instructor-led or computer-based
versions. Training has also been added to 
new employee orientation, supervisor 
training and anti-harassment training.

Training materials are available in the 
10 most widely spoken languages for our
workforce, included on our internal Web site,
and linked to managerial and employee
training sites. Our 40 HIV/AIDS policy
implementation coordinators have access to
a “community of practice” Web site designed
to share information and best practices and
to post questions and answers. This is in
addition to information on the internal
employee Web site. For more information,
please visit our Web site. [1] 

Collaborating to Fight Malaria 
Chevron has programs in place to fight
malaria in areas of Africa where the disease
is a major health threat to the communities
where we operate. In Nigeria, we launched
anti-malaria initiatives in Rivers and Kaduna
states. Both initiatives targeted children 
under five years of age and pregnant
women. We also introduced an awareness
campaign to be delivered from the River
Boat Clinic project, which serves as a mobile
hospital along the Benin and Escravos rivers
in Delta State. 

Total Recordable Incident Rate
Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hours

Lost-Time Incident Frequency
Incidents per million work hours

Employees      Contractors      Benchmark

Employees      Contractors      Benchmark

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

0.34 

0.46 

0.38

0.61

0.42

0.67

0.46

0.66

0.53

0.73

0.60

0.84

0.59

0.76

0.68

0.90

0.74

0.84

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

0.41  

0.53  

0.84  0.77

0.49

0.79

1.07 0.95

0.87 0.95

0.95 0.90

1.26 1.08

1.26 1.20

1.30 1.10

American Petroleum Institute data are used as 
industry benchmarks.

American Petroleum Institute data are used as
industry benchmarks.

Days Away From Work Rate
Days away per 200,000 work hours

Employees      Contractors      Benchmark

Work-Related Fatalities

Employees      Contractors

2006

1

2005

2004

2

2

4

2003

0

2002

1

11

12

15

15

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

0.08 

0.1  

0.16  0.15

0.1  0.15

0.21 0.19

0.16 0.19

0.25 0.22

0.18 0.17

0.25 0.23

0.25 0.21

American Petroleum Institute data are used as 
industry benchmarks.

Motor Vehicle Safety
Company motor vehicle incidents per million miles driven

0.82

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

3.65

3.01

2.94

3.31

2006 data are based on a new classification system
adopted by the International Association of Oil & Gas
Producers and are no longer comparable to historical data.

[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/hiv_aids/

19

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 20

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

In Angola, we distributed insecticide-treated
nets to Angolan employees and their
families and established a 24-hour malaria
hotline. As a result of these and other steps,
the incident rate of malaria cases was
substantially reduced at our clinic in 
Luanda and our facilities in Cabinda and
Malongo provinces. 

In 2006, we supported the Global Business
Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria and helped establish the Corporate
Alliance on Malaria in Africa, together with
other companies.

Planning for Pandemic Influenza
We believe that our success in addressing
the potential impact of infectious diseases 
in the workplace, including a pandemic
threat, relies on using existing systems to
drive appropriate behavior. 

In 2006, written guidance and video
materials were distributed throughout our
operations to support deployment of a
planning process for an influenza pandemic.
A Web site with additional information also
was established. The four major components
of the planning process are:

We conducted a post-implementation review
at major business units, and resulting
recommendations were distributed to our
operations. A corporate-level engagement
session was also held with approximately 
130 key suppliers to apprise them of our
strategies and plans.

Expanding Product Stewardship 
Managing potential risks of our products 
is one of the key expectations of our
Operational Excellence Management System.
Our product stewardship efforts include
undertaking risk assessments to identify,
assess and determine ways to manage
potential issues and concerns that may be
related to new and existing products, from
their conception and development to final
disposition. In 2005 and 2006, assessments
were conducted in Kazakhstan and Ukraine,
Pakistan, the Philippines, South Africa,
Thailand, and the United States. Chevron’s
product stewardship community of practice
comprises subject matter experts from
selected groups across the company. 
The group’s role is to share knowledge and
provide ongoing guidance to employees 
on implementation of processes and tools
related to product stewardship. 

(cid:2) Education and hygiene
(cid:2) Managing workplace exposure
(cid:2) Business continuity planning
(cid:2) Communications 

Roberto Garcia, a Chevron Health, Safety and
Environment coordinator in Puerto la Cruz, 
Venezuela, makes sure that health and safety issues
are incorporated into the project decision-making
process. In January 2007, he led a session at an 
ESHIA workshop for the Delta Caribe liquefied 
natural gas project. Attending were government
representatives and project business partners.

20

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 21

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Supply Chain Management

In 2006, Chevron spent approximately 
$30 billion on goods and services from
suppliers and contractors ranging from 
large multinational corporations to locally
based businesses in communities in which
we operate. Building local supplier capacity
is one of the most important ways we
benefit communities.

Building a Diverse U.S. Supplier Network
Sourcing from small, women-owned and
minority-owned businesses helps us meet
our business needs while stimulating
economic growth. In 2006, we spent
approximately $2.8 billion on goods and
services provided by small businesses 
in the United States, exceeding our goal 
of 27 percent of total U.S. expenditures. 
In addition, we spent $432 million with
minority-owned businesses and $373 million
with women-owned businesses, both of
which were slightly under our 5 percent
spending goal for each category.

We have several strategies in the United
States to attract a diverse supplier network
and monitor our efforts against our goals.
These include training and outreach programs
to potential suppliers on our requirements,
helping large suppliers with contracts of
more than $500,000 to understand our
supplier diversity initiatives, and requiring
large suppliers to identify opportunities to
increase their own supplier diversity. 

Building a Strong Local Supplier 
Network Worldwide
Developing qualified and competent local
suppliers through training and technology
transfer in international locations helps
establish us as a partner of choice with
governments in countries where we operate,
and increases operational and project
support among employees and communities.
In 2006, we held mentoring and training
programs in Angola, Indonesia, Kazakhstan
and Nigeria, and supplier forums in
countries that included Kazakhstan and
Nigeria. These initiatives enable local

suppliers to understand our business needs
and make them more successful in tendering
for our business.

Creating Value and Competitive
Advantage Through Diversity
Our supplier diversity and small business
programs embrace a variety of people, ideas,
talents and experiences. Our partnership
with Cole Chemical & Distributing, Inc., 
a Houston-based independent chemical
distributor, demonstrates how our programs
create value for our customers and our
partners in the supply chain. 

Cole Chemical, founded by CEO Donna
Fujimoto Cole in 1980, has only 12
employees, yet it earned more than 
$50 million in sales in 2005. The company
was one of a number of firms invited to bid
on a new chemical distribution requirement
for Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, a 
50 percent-owned affiliate. Cole Chemical’s
supplier partnership with us was initiated in
August 2006 with a pilot project for the Gulf
of Mexico business unit. We nominated the
company for the Houston Minority Business
Council’s Supplier of the Year Award, which
it won in October 2006.

Building Employee Capacity
Thirty-six of our employees from 15
countries graduated from Arizona State
University’s M.B.A. program in May 2006
with specialties in supply chain management.
They are the second group to complete the
customized 18-month program delivered
online. This master’s-level program provides
us with procurement professionals who have
the skills to manage in today’s competitive
supply chain environment. 

U.S. Small Business and Supplier 
Diversity Spending 
US$ millions

2002 2003

2004 2005 2006

Small business

1,364 1,310 1,360 1,800 2,800

Women-owned

212

Minority-owned

209

223

202

222

226

258

310

373

432

Justina Okoro (left) and Oluseun Olusola participate 
in topside-module inspection on the Chevron Agbami
project. They are two of a number of employees from
National Engineering and Technical Company Ltd., 
a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation, who have received training on the project. 

In Nigeria, Building Capacity Through
Local Content 
Chevron supports the establishment of 
self-sustaining local companies that have the
capacity to compete anywhere in the world. 
In Nigeria, our Agbami Field project is actively
working to develop local suppliers. The field
is located in deep water, approximately 
70 miles (113 kilometers) off the coast of
Nigeria’s central Niger Delta region.
Operated by a Chevron affiliate, Star Deep
Water Petroleum Limited, the project will
come onstream in 2008 with estimated peak
production projected at 250,000 barrels of
crude oil and natural gas liquids per day.

Input on the design and fabrication of
offshore structures for the project has
contributed to local content value exceeding
2.7 million workforce hours. Some 10,000 tons
of major offshore components for the Agbami
project will be fabricated in local yards.

Nigerdock Nigeria Plc and Daewoo Nigeria
Limited helped complete in-country
fabrication of key components of the
project’s floating production, storage and
offloading vessel. The components were
completed on schedule and without any 
lost-time injury. The sizeable workload also
prompted Nigerdock, Daewoo and Grinaker-
LTA Nigeria to expand and upgrade their
facilities. These infrastructure improvements
will continue to serve present and future
business interests in Nigeria.

21

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 22

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Community Engagement

Chevron’s community engagement activities
focus on building capacity to promote local
economic development and stable, long-term
relationships. In 2006, we invested nearly 
$91 million in community engagement
initiatives. Approximately 68 percent focused
on building human and institutional capacity
in ways that help stimulate economic growth
and enable communities to prosper. Our
community engagement initiatives targeted
three areas: basic human needs, education
and career training, and support for local
small and medium-size businesses, which
includes access to credit. These initiatives
were executed in partnership with local 
and national governments, communities,
nongovernmental organizations and
multilateral institutions.

Capital Projects 
and Community Engagement
Our community engagement activities 
are also evident in our Environmental, 
Social and Health Impact Assessment
project review process, described in the 
Stakeholder Engagement section on 
page 16. A community engagement network
helps increase our employees’ capacity to
administer programs, share best practices,
and develop common monitoring and
evaluation processes.

Continuing Support for Communities
In 2006, Chevron continued to support 
the rebuilding efforts of communities
affected by natural disasters in South Asia,
Pakistan and the U.S. Gulf Coast. We also
continued our efforts to promote economic
development in Nigeria’s Niger Delta region
and our relocation assistance to families
from Sarykamys, Kazakhstan.

Energy for Learning 
Education is crucial to the social and
economic vitality of communities. In June
2006, Chevron launched Energy for
Learning, a three-year, $18 million initiative
to support public school education in 23
Louisiana and Mississippi school districts
affected by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. In
consultation with education officials in both
states and in partnership with local nonprofit
organizations, we are providing academic
materials, science lab equipment and
computers to schools. We also continued to
support the restoration of damaged child
care facilities in Mississippi, initiated in 2005.

Tsunami Recovery Efforts 
We committed $10 million over three years
to help rebuild the devastated regions of
South Asia after the 2004 tsunami. In
consultation with our local business units,

government and potential partners, 
we conducted a comprehensive needs
assessment in Indonesia to focus our 
efforts on building institutional and 
human capacity. Some examples of our
recovery contributions include:

(cid:2) Providing short-term vocational training

for 350 young people at Politeknik 
Caltex Riau, a polytechnic university, 
in partnership with the U.S. Agency 
for International Development (USAID). 
In 2006, more than 80 percent of the
graduates found jobs within three months. 

(cid:2) Partnering with the government and

USAID to build a new polytechnic school 
in Aceh province that will provide training
in electronics, engineering and business
accounting.

(cid:2) Establishing five local financial institutions
and providing 500 loans in targeted areas
in partnership with Mercy Corps.

Nigeria’s Niger Delta: An Update
Designed to help address the long-standing
and complex development issues that affect
communities and our operations in the
region, Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL)
signed Global Memoranda of Understanding
(GMOUs) with eight community groups and

The weavers at Putri Tujuh Weaving, a small business in Dumai, Indonesia, created the cloth shown on the cover of this report. The women weave vibrant Malay cloth, usually
worn during ceremonies and celebrations.

22

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 23

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

state governments in the Niger Delta in
2006. The GMOUs are intended to gradually
shift control over the design, planning and
execution of community development
programs from CNL to the communities
through newly created Regional
Development Councils (RDCs). Together, 
the GMOUs reach more than 400 individual
communities, involving approximately
600,000 community members. 

The RDCs consist of management, 
project, accounting and conflict-resolution
committees with representatives from 
the communities, CNL, state and federal
government, and nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs). CNL supports the 
RDC process by providing initial funding 
for governance, administration, project 
and NGO partner costs. 

Local Nigerian-based NGOs are essential 
to the process. They chair many of the
committees, provide technical assistance
and help resolve conflicts that arise from
time to time in the communities. In 2006, 
30 NGOs performed Sustainable Livelihood
Assessments (SLAs), evaluations of
livelihoods that document, with community
input, information such as demographics,
income sources and patterns of conflict.

Preliminary SLA findings indicate that
improved livelihoods are likely to come 
from private-public partnerships that
leverage existing assets rather than from
introducing new programs.

Using input from the SLAs, the RDCs are
now preparing three-year development plans
that they will implement once the plans are
approved. The plans will also be presented 
to other development organizations in 
the Niger Delta in the hope that these
organizations will cofund selected projects.
In 2006, milestones included the following:

(cid:2) Training was completed for more than 

300 RDC leaders and NGOs.

(cid:2) More than 40 comprehensive SLAs 

were completed to guide the preparation
of community development plans for 
each RDC. 

(cid:2) Small pilot projects were initiated by the
RDCs in select communities to test their
internal execution capabilities. Accounts
were produced for financial transactions.

sustainable initiatives. A second challenge is
nurturing the partnerships needed to resolve
multiple development issues in the region.
CNL remains hopeful that communities will
use this model to design and implement
projects that strengthen their capacity and
address the development needs they face. 

New Homes in Kazakhstan: An Update 
The relocation of the people of Sarykamys,
Kazakhstan, was completed in 2006. Residents
could choose to relocate to either Atyrau,
with a population of about 200,000, or New
Karaton, a rural community where they could
continue to raise livestock. The relocation was
conducted according to and using World Bank
guidelines, which included consultation with
residents, a baseline survey, and development
and implementation of a resettlement 
action plan. Tengizchevroil, in which Chevron
holds a 50 percent interest, contributed 
$95 million for construction of new homes,
schools and associated infrastructure,
transitional support, and demolition and
reclamation of the old homes in Sarykamys.

With many projects in the Niger Delta vying
for support, an ongoing challenge of the
GMOUs is balancing the communities’ desire
for quick results with the goals of promoting

Former residents of Sarykamys now occupy
430 new homes in the city of Atyrau and 
321 new homes in New Karaton. New middle
schools in both locations opened on
September 1, 2006, for the school year.

Global Community Investments in 2006

VOLUNTEERING IN BRAZIL

North America 47% 

Africa 23%

Eurasia 1 1%

Asia-Pacific 10%

Latin America 4%

Middle East 4%

Europe 1%

Total $90.8 million

Chevron Brasil Ltda. employees Nadjane
Oliveira and Patrick Samara donate time 
and attention to children at shelter Lar 
da Criança Feliz. This volunteer work has 
been recognized by local associations and
government. Over the past three years, the
company has donated more than 860,000
books to schools throughout the country.

Includes Chevron’s share in Chevron Phillips Chemical 
Company, the Tengizchevroil joint venture, and the
Karachaganak Petroleum Operation Consortium.

23

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 24

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Measuring Success
Our Geothermal business unit in the
Philippines is undertaking innovative 
work to monitor and measure community
engagement programs. It has worked with
local farmers and other partners to help
establish an agricultural business program
based on cassava, a root crop, near
Chevron’s Tiwi and Mak-Ban geothermal
operations. The goal of the program is to
build a free-standing, sustainable market 
for the cassava crop to support farmers 
and their families. Progress toward that 
goal is measured by:

(cid:2) The number of hectares that were

formerly unproductive and are now in use.
In 2006, 30 hectares (74 acres) were
planted, exceeding the first-year target by
33 percent. Targets have been set for the
next five years, with the goal of planting a
total of 310 hectares (766 acres) by 2010. 

(cid:2) The number of farmers taking part in the
program. In 2006, 17 farmers participated
in the program. Our target is to increase
the number of farmers participating to
207 by 2010 in tandem with the increase
in hectares planted.

(cid:2) The increase in annual income for farmers.
In 2006, the average income of farmers
participating in the program increased by
$144 dollars, or 40 percent, from $360 
to $504.

The Chevron Management Institute 
In 2006, 27 leaders of nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) from Angola, Canada,
the Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Nigeria,
Thailand and the United States gathered at
our headquarters for four days of intensive
leadership and management skills training.
NGO leaders participated in the Chevron
Management Institute (CMI), a unique
training program that strives to increase
the capacity of NGOs to leverage their
capabilities and knowledge. Working with
the Leader to Leader Institute, CMI has
trained approximately 275 leaders from 
the United States and other countries 
since its establishment in 1995.

In advance of attending CMI, each partici-
pant received feedback on his or her
performance style from employers, peers
and subordinates. Once onsite, participants
worked with Chevron coaches to interpret
the review data and develop personal
action plans to improve their leadership
skills. Participants had an opportunity 
to share best practices in nonprofit
operations with their peers. They also
received a firm understanding of results-
oriented project planning, including
effective measurement, monitoring and
review. Participant feedback indicated 
that CMI provided a greater understanding
of the dimensions of leadership, giving
them the confidence to stretch their
personal and organizational capabilities. 

From left: Joel Dimiyen Bisina, founder and regional director
of the Niger Delta Professionals for Development, speaks
with Chevron’s Doug Uchikura and Dave Krattebol at the
2006 Chevron Management Institute.

“Chevron is to be congratulated both for its
vision of improving the world by training
nonprofit leaders and for organizing a 
first-class event. CMI gave me new tools 
to improve my performance and raised 
my expectations of what I can accomplish
within my organization.”

Daniel J. O’Neil, Country Director 
Pan American Development Foundation
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

24

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 25

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Human Rights

Chevron’s Human Rights Statement, adopted
in 2006, reaffirms our long-standing support
for universal human rights. Grounded in 
The Chevron Way, it is both an expression 
of our values and part of how we conduct
our business. The statement provides a
framework for constructive dialogue on
human rights issues and explains what our
support for universal human rights means 
to us as both a business and a member of
society. It expresses our commitment to
supporting human rights for our employees
and in the communities where we operate. 

A copy of our Human Rights Statement is
available on our Web site. [1]

The statement acknowledges our support 
for the ideals articulated in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the
International Labor Organization’s
Declaration of Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work. These documents include
principles that have long underpinned The
Chevron Way, including respect for diversity
and nondiscrimination. In addition, Chevron
requires all employees to obey the laws of
the countries where they live and work,
abide by our policies, and comply with the
Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code.

To further enhance our employees’
understanding of human rights, we launched
a training program in July 2006 that was

developed with internal input and external
expertise. The training contains an overview
of human rights principles, key international
instruments and voluntary initiatives,
including the Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights and the Global
Sullivan Principles. It outlines how human
rights can be supported in the context of 
the company’s role as a member of society. 

Senior managers and supervisors have
begun taking the training. To date, more
than 1,200 employees have completed the
training, which will continue to be rolled out
over the next three years.

In 2006, we also held a training workshop
for our Global Security advisors on the
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human
Rights. Our Global Security group continues
to include the Voluntary Principles as part of
the materials they provide to local business
units. The business units are accountable for
implementing the Voluntary Principles in
accordance with local laws and conditions.

The Global Sullivan Principles help guide the
way we work with communities. In July 2006,
we reaffirmed our support for the principles
and participated in the Leon H. Sullivan
Summit in Abuja, Nigeria.

Chevron has supported the Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights since their inception in
2000. Global Security advisors from locations
worldwide participated in a training workshop on the
Voluntary Principles in 2006. Scott Taylor (above),
Chevron’s director of Global Security, participated in
the workshop.

[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/human_rights/

25

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 26

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Angola Case Study

Since Chevron subsidiary Cabinda Gulf Oil Company Limited first
began drilling for oil in Angola nearly 50 years ago, Chevron has
grown to become one of the country’s top producers, responsible
for one-third of its annual production. Among foreign oil firms
operating in Angola, we are the largest employer, with approximately
3,000 employees and an additional 12,000 contracted workers. 
We have more than a dozen major projects in design or execution
stages. With partners, our capital investment in Angola is expected
to exceed $10 billion through 2010. 

Angola is now the fastest-growing economy in Africa. In carrying
out our business, we support the country’s economic and social
development. 

Building a Vibrant Local Workforce and Strong Supply Chain
Part of our current and future success rests with strong safety
performance, a healthy workforce and vibrant local supplier
networks. Today, about 88 percent of our employees in Angola 
are Angolans. 

In 2006, our Southern Africa strategic business unit, which has a
majority of its operations in Angola, achieved a record 20 million
workforce hours without a lost-time injury. This record is due, in
part, to our focus on the causes of workplace injuries and further
integrating our contractors into our companywide safety programs.
It is also noteworthy given the range of our operations and the
diverse professional and cultural background of our contractors.

Chevron also provided employees and their families with HIV/AIDS
education, volunteer testing, counseling and treatment. In 2006, all
children born to HIV-positive mothers participating in our programs
tested HIV-negative at birth. During peak malaria season, malaria-
prevention initiatives at Chevron clinics led to a drop from about
50 cases a day in 2005 to between 5 and 10 in 2006. Home visits
to employees and the donation of microscopes to medical labs that
offer services to the community were also part of these initiatives.

Chevron also continued to develop local supplier networks in
Angola. A local content specialist works one to one with Angolan

suppliers to deliver quality products and services. In 2006, as part
of our broader local supply efforts, we began to outsource our
transportation services to an Angolan supplier. 

“Angola’s future depends on its ability to provide its citizens 
with improved social services and increased employment
opportunities. Improving the quality of life for Angola’s 
citizens is critical to rebuilding the country. Chevron is 
making a sustainable contribution to that effort through 
our investments in Angola’s energy industry, workforce and
communities. Building on 50 years of partnership with the
Angolan people, we are committed to working with them 
to help achieve the prosperity and stability they seek.” 

Jim Blackwell, Managing Director 
Chevron Southern Africa Strategic Business Unit

Engaging With Stakeholders to Reach Common Goals
Chevron holds a 36 percent interest in the Angola Liquefied
Natural Gas (Angola LNG) project, a multibillion-dollar venture
located in Soyo on Angola’s northwest coast. Planning has been
under way since the late 1990s. Once in operation, the facility is
expected to process 5 million metric tons of natural gas per year
collected from offshore oil and gas operations. Gas supplied to 
the Angola LNG plant will be a combination of gas produced in
association with oil that would previously have been flared or
reinjected and of nonassociated gas produced from dedicated 
wells that tap gas reservoirs (see project facts, below right). 

Our integrated Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) process is being used in the development 
of the Angola LNG project. Stakeholder engagement began during
the site selection phase in 2004. Since that time, more than
a hundred meetings and workshops have been held to provide
project information and seek the views of community health
representatives, local businesses, the fishing community, churches,
traditional leaders and other stakeholders. Radio programs also
provide communities with updates on the project.

Left: Dr. Vanda Andrade, medical director for Chevron’s Southern Africa strategic business unit, says Chevron’s efforts in the community have significantly reduced 
the transmission of HIV/AIDS. Center: Through the Angola Partnership Initiative, Chevron helps support the formation of sustainable enterprises, such as corn farming in 
the Huambo province. Right: Celestino Cariongo is a lead operator on the North Nemba Platform offshore Angola. About 88 percent of our employees in Angola are Angolans.

26

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 27

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

A three-stage stakeholder engagement process was used to
identify issues, receive input and develop solutions on a range of
issues. For example, to address villagers’ concerns about protecting
their homes from snakes and other reptiles displaced during
clearance of the construction site, a project herpetologist is
capturing the reptiles and relocating them to remote areas under
the authority of local environmental regulators. A plan is also in
place to route plant pipelines around a highly valued primary forest
while dredging-contract provisions protect sensitive mangrove and
fishing areas. Finally, an impact mitigation and development plan
for fishing is being prepared to support the livelihoods of local
fishing communities. The ESHIA process also addresses the need
for local job creation and how best to use Angolan labor, goods and
services during construction and operations. 

The results of the assessment phase were published in 2006 in a
comprehensive disclosure report. Another round of stakeholder
meetings and workshops were conducted to review the findings in
Luanda, M’Banza Kongo and Soyo during the fall of 2006 and early
2007. The meetings were widely advertised and attended by more
than 300 people. Input from these meetings will be incorporated
into an ESHIA amendment document to be published in 2007. 

The ESHIA process has successfully helped the Angola LNG project
improve decision quality, meet regulatory requirements and gain
community support. A project community center and community
liaison officers are located near the site to facilitate outreach 
and communications with local communities. A project Web site
provides updates, documented results of engagement efforts 
and a platform for questions. 

Combining Community Engagement 
and Environmental Stewardship
Fishing in the Cabinda Bay area is an important means of income
for local communities and a commercial resource for the region. 
In 2006, the Health, Environment and Safety staff of Chevron
subsidiary Cabinda Gulf Oil Company Limited undertook a study 
to establish a baseline of contaminant levels of fish in Cabinda 
Bay. The local fishing community was consulted in advance of the

study and assisted in fish collection from offshore and near-shore
fishing grounds. The baseline is expected to be compared with
future samples.

The study also helped build institutional capacity by transferring
analytical capabilities from the company to the National Institute
for Fisheries Research and the Cabinda Department of Agriculture,
Fisheries, Environment and Rural Development. 

Partnering for Capacity Building
Partnerships help build local capacity and improve living standards.
In Angola, the Angola Partnership Initiative (API) was designed to
create jobs and training, microlending, and business development.

In 2006, we launched two new projects in partnership with the 
U.S. Agency for International Development within the API frame-
work. The first project, the Municipal Development Program,
supports the Angolan government’s goal of strengthening local
decision making with broad community participation by building
municipal and community-based organizations’ planning, budgeting
and project implementation capacity. The program is being
executed in Andulo, Belize, Cuito Cuanavale and Tchicala Tchiloango.
The second project, the ProAgro Angola program, contributes to
the diversification of the Angolan economy by offering farmers
technical assistance to increase yields and improve productivity,
processing practices and marketing strategies. This five-year
program will also help link small and medium-size farms with
suppliers and buyers. 

Search for Common Ground: A Proactive Approach 
to Conflict Resolution
In 2006, we began working with Search for Common Ground to
strengthen local capacity to address conflicts constructively.
Search for Common Ground has been working in Angola since 
1996 to support the national reconciliation process. With Chevron
funding, Search for Common Ground established an office in
Cabinda and began to engage with local fishing communities 
to help identify their needs and address issues that contribute 
to conflict in the region. 

ANGOLA LNG PROJECT FACTS

Timeline
Construction is expected to begin in 2007, with operation startup planned for 2010–2011.

The Process
(cid:2) Natural gas from oil and gas production facilities operating offshore will be collected 

and transported to an onshore facility for processing. 

(cid:2) A portion of the natural gas will supply local needs, and the remainder will be exported.

The Benefits
(cid:2) Provide energy, technology transfer, jobs and training. 

(cid:2) Expected to eliminate routine gas flaring from several offshore facilities. This will result 

in reductions of greenhouse gas emissions from current oil production activities. 

A model of the planned Angola LNG facility.

27

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 28

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Environment and Climate Change

Chevron is committed to providing affordable, reliable energy supplies 
to meet growing global demand in an environmentally responsible way. 
We apply our expertise to address complex technical challenges, protect 
the environment and mitigate the environmental impact of our operations.

On the following pages, we summarize our performance in 2006 and discuss
climate change, our portfolio of renewable energy projects and how we are
standardizing our environmental management practices across the company.

28

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 29

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

“ DIVERSIFYING OUR SOURCES OF

ENERGY IS ESSENTIAL TO MEET THE
WORLD’S GROWING DEMAND FOR
ENERGY IN AN ENVIRONMENTALLY
SOUND WAY. DEVELOPING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE TO PRODUCE
AND DISTRIBUTE NEW FORMS
OF ENERGY, SUCH AS BIOFUELS, 
AT THE NECESSARY SCALE IS
A SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGE.
THAT’S WHY OUR PORTFOLIO OF
TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS AND
STRATEGIC RESEARCH ALLIANCES
IS SO IMPORTANT. TO SUCCEED, 
WE NEED ENERGY SOLUTIONS
THAT ARE INNOVATIVE, PRACTICAL
AND ENDURING.”

DON PAUL
VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF
TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
CHEVRON CORPORATION

Alicia Boutan, vice president of Business Development for Chevron Technology Ventures (CTV), visits the Galveston,
Texas, biodiesel facility, currently under construction. CTV has an equity position in the plant, one of the first such
large-scale plants in the United States. The facility will have the potential to produce 100 million gallons per year of
this clean-burning renewable fuel.

29

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 30

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Climate Change 

At Chevron, we recognize and share the
concerns of governments and the public
about climate change. The use of fossil 
fuels to meet the world’s energy needs is 
a contributor to an increase in greenhouse
gases (GHGs) – mainly CO2 and methane – 
in the earth’s atmosphere. There is a
widespread view that this increase is leading
to climate change, with adverse effects on
the environment. 

We took early action to create a compre-
hensive plan, known as the Fourfold Plan 
of Action on Climate Change, which is in 
the fifth year of implementation. We are:

(cid:2) Reducing emissions of GHGs and
increasing energy efficiency.

(cid:2) Investing in research, development and

improved technology.

(cid:2) Pursuing business opportunities in

promising, innovative energy technologies.

(cid:2) Supporting flexible and economically
sound policies and mechanisms that
protect the environment.

Climate change is a global concern. Nation
by nation, coordinated frameworks are
essential. Fragmented actions have the
potential for undue economic cost without
effectively mitigating climate change risk.

In alignment with our Fourfold Plan of Action
on Climate Change, the following principles
are essential to ensure flexible and
economically sound policies in light of
uncertainties that exist: 

(cid:2) Global Engagement: The reduction of

greenhouse gas emissions must be shared
equitably by the top emitting countries of

the world. We support equitable sharing
via long-term and coordinated national
frameworks. 

(cid:2) Energy Security: Fossil fuels are expected
to dominate energy supply for decades 
to come. Climate policy must recognize
the role these critical energy sources 
play to ensure security of supply and
economic growth.

(cid:2) Maximize Conservation: Energy efficiency
and conservation are the most immediate
and cost-effective sources of new energy,
with no GHG emissions. Government
programs to promote energy efficiency
and conservation must continue and
should be enhanced.

(cid:2) Measured and Flexible Approach: 

GHG reduction objectives must avoid a
disruptive economic impact and allow for
realistic turnover in capital and a phase 
in of new, low-carbon technologies.
Periodic “check points” are advised in 
light of new scientific and economic
impact information.

(cid:2) Broad, Equitable Treatment: Broad and
equitable treatment of all sectors of the
economy is necessary to ensure no sector
or company is disproportionately burdened.

(cid:2) Enable Technology: Government support
and partnerships with the private sector
for pre-competitive research and
development in carbon mitigation and
clean energy technologies must continue
at an accelerated pace.

(cid:2) Transparency: The costs, risks, trade-offs
and uncertainties associated with such
climate policies must be openly
communicated. 

For more information, visit our Web site. [ 1 ] 

Reducing GHG Emissions
In 2006, our operations emitted 61.9 million
metric tons of CO2 equivalent, well under
our goal of 68.5 million metric tons of 
CO2 equivalent.1, 3 For 2007, we are setting a
preliminary goal of 63.5 million metric tons
of CO2 equivalent. We intend to manage 
our emissions while growing our business.
Chevron continues to execute energy
efficiency improvements and to reduce
flaring and venting emissions. 

The primary sources of our GHG emissions
are combustion, which occurs during
operations, and flaring and venting of
natural gas, a byproduct of crude oil
production (see “GHG Emissions by Source”
chart on page 31). In 2006, these combined
sources accounted for more than 90 percent
of our GHG emissions. 

Our products resulted in emissions from
combustion of 395 million metric tons of
CO2 in 2006.2

Chevron’s international upstream organization
adopted a flaring and venting standard in
2005 that aligns with the World Bank’s
voluntary standard. It requires all new capital
projects be developed without continuous
associated-gas flaring and venting, where
feasible. The international upstream standard
also requires existing continuous associated-
gas flares and vents to be eliminated by 2010
and 2008, respectively, wherever feasible.
Our business units have identified eight
important flaring and venting reduction
projects in Angola, Kazakhstan and Nigeria
that are expected to produce significant
reductions to GHG emissions by 2010. 

1 Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported on an equity basis for all businesses in which Chevron has an interest except
where noted below. The following entities are not currently included in the Chevron corporate greenhouse gas inventory:
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, Azerbaijan International Operating
Company, the Chad/Cameroon pipeline joint venture, Caltex Australia Limited’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, and other
refineries in which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent or less. These are entities over which we do not have full
operational control or which do not generally follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible protocol.

2 Product emissions are calculated based on total 2006 upstream liquids, gas and coal production figures from Chevron’s

2006 Annual Report. The emission factors used are from the American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse
Gas Emissions Estimations Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry, published in 2004.

30

[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/environment/global_climate.asp

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 31

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

We require that capital projects evaluate
GHG emissions profiles, opportunities for
reduction and potential opportunities from
carbon credits. All capital projects of more
than $5 million must conduct an initial
analysis to estimate emissions and their
potential range of carbon costs and benefits.
Analyses are integrated into the capital
projects planning process. Projects of more
than $50 million must submit results from
the full assessment before they are funded.
See “Supporting Flexible and Economically
Sound Mechanisms” on page 32 for more on
carbon markets and trading mechanisms.

Capitalizing on Energy Efficiency 
Exploration, production, shipping and
refining operations require a significant
amount of energy. The sources of this
energy are primarily natural gas, crude oil,
liquefied petroleum gas, diesel fuel and
electricity. As existing production fields
mature, more energy is needed to produce
the same amount of crude oil and natural
gas. Also, additional energy is required as oil
and gas production increases and refinery
throughput increases. The need for cleaner
products also increases the amount of
energy needed to run our operations.
Consequently, improving the energy
efficiency of our operations is increasingly
important from an environmental and
business perspective. The cost of energy 
to the company is substantial, averaging 
$3 billion annually from 2001 to 2005 and
reaching $5.3 billion in 2006. The total
energy consumption of our operated assets
in 2006 was 900 trillion Btu. 

GHG Emissions by Source 3
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

GHG Emissions by Sector 3
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Combustion   

Flaring and venting    Other

Upstream    Downstream    Other

41

2006

35.2

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

16.1

14.7

14.9

16.2

15.8

4.8

7.0

7.7

7.0

7.1

37.4

2005

38.1

2004

38.9

2003

38.8

2002

2.9

2.5

3.2

3.2

2.6

Total GHG Emissions by Type 3
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Chevron Energy Index
1992 = base 100

2006
2005
2004
2003
2002

Direct
65.3
6 1 .3
61.8
62.6
62.8

Indirect
–2.5
– 1.6
–0.2
0.3
–0.2

Grid Credits
–0.9
–0.7
–0.9
–0.9
–0.9

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1992

50

See page 32 for more information.

3 Chevron’s net increase of approximately 3 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent emissions from 2005 to 2006
can be attributed primarily to accounting of emissions from former Unocal assets for the full year of 2006,
compared with just five months in 2005 (Chevron acquired Unocal in August 2005).

The increased emissions are offset by material decreases attributable to reduced flaring as well as to improved
estimates of emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas, as part of ongoing improvements in environmental
reporting. Chevron’s business units continue to make improvements in energy efficiency, as described on 
page 32, which helps moderate growth in emissions.

Chevron’s 2005 greenhouse gas emissions have been restated from 59.7 million to 59.0 million metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent as a result of continuing data analysis and improvements in our environmental reporting. 

Due to rounding, individual figures may not sum to the 2006 GHG emissions total of 61.9 million metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent.

34.1

33.4

35.2

34.8

23.8

22.4

24.0

23.7

24.3

73

76

76

78

79

79

83

100

A COMMITMENT SINCE 2001

“Chevron’s commitment to managing and

reducing greenhouse gas emissions began
in 2001, when we began executing our
Fourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change.
Under this plan, we established a
systematic protocol for estimating GHG
emissions, and we now require our major
capital projects to include a review of these
emissions, including the impact of carbon-
associated costs. We have continued to

improve our own energy efficiency as 
well as help our customers do the same. 
At the same time, we are investing in 
the development of advanced energy
technologies and deploying commercially
proven renewable energy technologies
around the world.” 

Georgia Callahan, General Manager 
Global Policy and Strategy
Chevron Health, Environment and Safety

31

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 32

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

In 2006, we beat our target on the Chevron
Energy Index, which measures energy use at
each facility and for each business activity
(see chart on page 31). Chevron achieved a
level of 73 on the index, an improvement of
three points over 2005 and two points better
than our goal of 75. Today, our operations
are 27 percent more energy efficient than
they were in 1992, the base year. This
improvement translates into lower GHG
emissions required to produce our products.
For more information on the Chevron Energy
Index and our energy efficiency strategies,
please visit our Web site. [1] 

Sequestration Leadership Forum workshops,
“Near-Term Opportunities for Carbon
Capture and Storage.” The workshop was
intended to support the Group of Eight’s
(G8) plan to accelerate development and
commercialization of carbon capture and
storage. Experts who attended the workshop
exchanged viewpoints on policy and on
technical and commercial information.
Additional workshops are scheduled for
Canada and Norway in 2007, with final
recommendations for near-term
opportunities to be reported back to the 
G8 leaders at their 2008 meeting in Japan.

Our business units continue to make steady
progress each year in improving their energy
efficiency. Continuing this trend requires
constant focus and progress on our key
energy efficiency opportunities, including
designing energy efficiency into our capital
projects, keeping existing equipment efficient
through proper maintenance and upgrading,
and auditing and benchmarking our progress.
Cogenerating power and steam in our
facilities has also been an important part of
our overall strategy since the early 1990s.

Supporting Innovation in Technology
Development and Deployment
In August 2006, we hosted the first of three
International Energy Agency and Carbon

Since 2004, our climate change specialists
have acted as industry-expert contributors
and review editors for key publications by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC). These include the Carbon
Dioxide Capture and Storage special report,
the National Emissions Inventory Reporting
Guidelines, and the Mitigation of Climate
Change section of the Fourth Assessment
Report, to be published in 2007. The IPCC
was established in 1988 by the World
Meteorological Organization and the United
Nations Environment Programme to assess
scientific, technical and socioeconomic
information relevant to climate change.

Supporting Flexible and Economically
Sound Mechanisms
Chevron participates in policy development
and decision making on energy issues at the
international and national levels, and in the
United States at the state level. We also
engage in constructive dialogues with a
broad range of stakeholders on international
mechanisms that provide flexible, market-
based, economically sound means to reduce
emissions. Since its inception in 2004, our
carbon markets team has continued to
support compliance efforts with the EU
Emissions Trading Scheme and to pursue
opportunities for credits under the Kyoto
Protocol.

In September 2006, the state of California
approved legislation mandating that GHG
emissions in the state be reduced to 1990
levels by 2020. The state government is
currently designing a regulatory program
that will cover emissions from the company’s
upstream and downstream operations in the
state, as well as developing a low-carbon
fuels standard. This would essentially lower
the overall carbon emissions created by
transportation fuels in California. We are
working closely with state officials and the
business community to help regulators
design an efficient, achievable and equitable
framework for businesses to use in meeting
these new mandates. 

The Sanha Condensate Project in Angola was designed to address the largest single source of flaring from our operations. The project prevents flaring by capturing
associated natural gas, producing liquefied petroleum gas for export, and reinjecting produced gas into the Sanha reservoir.

32

[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/energy_conservation/

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 33

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Renewable Energy

Global energy demand is expected to increase
by 50 percent by 2030. While conventional
fossil fuels are expected to continue to 
be a primary source of energy for decades,
changing market dynamics and higher
energy prices are accelerating the pace and
scale at which renewable energy is becoming
a part of mainstream energy supplies.

demonstration projects and application of
proven technologies. We also announced
several new joint initiatives to develop
environmentally responsible and
commercially viable technologies and
processes to recover crude oil and natural
gas from western U.S. oil shale sources, an
alternative source of energy. 

Chevron is a leading producer of renewable
energy in the oil and gas industry and one of
the largest producers of geothermal energy
in the world. We currently have installed
capacity to produce 1,156 megawatts of
geothermal energy. In 2006, we added a
strategic intent to our strategic plan to
invest in renewable energy technologies. 
We will also capture profitable positions 
in important renewable sources of energy.
As markets and regulatory requirements
continue to evolve, we plan to build our
existing portfolio of renewable energy 
with a focus on transportation and power
generation. Chevron has invested more than 
$2 billion in renewable and alternative
energy and in energy efficiency services
since 2002. We expect to invest more than
$2.5 billion from 2007 through 2009 in
these same areas. 

In 2006, we formed strategic alliances with
government, academic and other institutions
to focus on emerging technologies,

Renewable Energy for Power Generation
Geothermal energy, used for electricity
production by utilities, constitutes most 
of our investment in renewable energy.
Projects we operate in Indonesia and 
the Philippines have produced a total of
approximately 128 million megawatt hours
of electricity since 1979. Compared with coal-
fired generation, this represents avoiding
approximately 77 million metric tons of CO2.

We also work with institutions and
businesses to develop projects that provide
electricity from solar, wind, biomass, and
other emerging and proven technologies,
largely through Chevron Energy Solutions
(CES). CES, a wholly owned subsidiary,
provides public institutions and businesses
with projects that increase energy efficiency
and reliability, reduce operating costs, and
benefit the environment. Customers include
U.S. federal, state and local government
agencies; educational institutions; and
commercial and industrial businesses,

including Chevron operating companies.
CES’ projects are funded primarily by energy
savings gained through the installation 
of efficient equipment and often include
renewable and alternative power
technologies. More information about 
CES can be found on our Web site. [2]

Alternative Transport Fuels
Chevron Technology Ventures, a subsidiary
of Chevron, has led our alternative transport
fuels and energy technology development,
primarily biofuels and hydrogen technology.
Two primary goals of this work are to
determine whether these technologies can
meet our standards for quality, reliability
and efficiency and whether they can pass a
market-commerciality and economics test.

As a transportation fuel, hydrogen can be
made from a variety of conventional and
renewable energy sources. However, there
are significant challenges inherent in making
hydrogen commercially viable. We will
continue to share accurate information
about the costs and benefits of hydrogen
technology with policy makers and other
interested parties. 

Chevron is taking a practical approach to
hydrogen technology by developing public-
private collaborations, commissioning
hydrogen demonstration stations and

DEVELOPING STRATEGIC RESEARCH ALLIANCES

“World energy demand is growing, and 
we need to find ways to meet it that 
make sense from both an economic and
environmental perspective. Chevron’s
strategic research alliance with Georgia
Tech reflects a shared commitment to
develop advanced technology that can

provide clean, affordable energy 
through the use of cellulosic biofuels
and hydrogen fuels.”

Roger Webb
Director, Strategic Energy Institute
Georgia Institute of Technology

[2] www.chevronenergy.com/

33

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 34

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

implementing technologies in real-world
applications. We are engaged in numerous
projects that are designed to provide
valuable experience designing and operating
hydrogen fuel systems. 

Examples of our investments in hydrogen
technology include the following:

(cid:2) In Florida, Chevron Technology Ventures 
is collaborating with the state, Ford Motor
Company and Progress Energy to design
and build the state’s first advanced
hydrogen energy station. The station, which
became operational in early 2007, will fuel
a fleet of hydrogen internal-combustion-
engine buses to be used by multiple vehicle
operators at the Orlando airport.

(cid:2) In California, Chevron Technology Ventures
is working with one of the state’s largest
public transit operators, Alameda–Contra
Costa Transit Authority, on a project
inaugurated in 2006 that has produced
hydrogen fuel onsite for a fleet of fuel 
cell buses and other hydrogen-powered
vehicles. The buses are used to transport
customers throughout the San Francisco
Bay Area on traditional routes. In Chino,
California, Chevron Technology Ventures
has used proprietary integration tech-
nologies since 2005 to reform natural 
gas into hydrogen at its demonstration
station at the Hyundai-Kia America 
Technical Center.

These projects are providing information
critical to effectively integrating hydrogen
technologies with existing energy supply
systems. Chevron will continue to explore
the most efficient and cost-effective ways 
to address the complex challenges of
commercializing hydrogen fuels. Visit the
Chevron Technology Ventures Web site for
more information on specific hydrogen
projects. [1]

facilities in the United States, located in
Galveston, Texas, to produce biodiesel.
Compared with conventional diesel, 
biodiesel produces lower carbon monoxide
and hydrocarbon emissions. The facility 
will initially produce 20 million gallons of
fuel per year, which represents a nearly 
27 percent increase in total U.S. biodiesel
production of 75 million gallons in 2005. 
The facility has the capability to expand
operations to produce 100 million gallons
per year.

The business unit is also focusing on the
next generation of cellulosic technologies,
those that rely on agricultural waste
materials rather than potential food crops 
as a feedstock. To date, it has established
biofuels research alliances with:

(cid:2) The U.S. Department of Energy’s

National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
to research and develop new
technologies to convert cellulosic
biomass into biofuels.

(cid:2) The Georgia Institute of Technology’s

Strategic Energy Institute, to develop and
research commercially viable processes
for the production of transportation fuels
from renewable resources such as forest
and agricultural waste.

(cid:2) The University of California, Davis, 
to pursue next-generation biofuels.

We are also in the second year of a
collaborative project with the state of
California, General Motors and Pacific
Ethanol to evaluate E85 for its consumer
acceptance as well as technical and
distribution factors. E85 is composed 
of 85 percent renewable ethanol and 
15 percent gasoline.

Chevron Energy Solutions engineered and installed a
unique system to turn inedible kitchen grease into
biogas that fuels a cogeneration unit in a wastewater
treatment plant in Millbrae, California. More than
3,000 gallons of restaurant grease are delivered to
the facility each day. Microorganisms in the plant’s
digester tanks “eat” the grease and other organic
matter, naturally producing methane gas — a source
of energy that would otherwise be a greenhouse gas
if released into the atmosphere. Kevin Cesar (above)
is a plant employee.

Biofuels 
Biofuels can contribute to meeting the
world’s growing demand for transportation
fuels. In 2006, Chevron created a biofuels
business unit to advance technology and
pursue commercial opportunities related to
ethanol and biodiesel. The new business unit
completed the acquisition of a 22 percent
interest in one of the first large-scale

34

[1] http://technologyventures.chevron.com/

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 35

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Environmental Management

We are committed to protecting the
environment by minimizing and mitigating
environmental impact throughout the life
cycle of our operations. Doing so is one of
our business objectives and reflects the
vision, values and business priorities
described in The Chevron Way.

Our Operational Excellence Management
System (OEMS) is the framework for
achieving world-class environmental
performance. Lloyd’s Register Quality
Assurance has attested that the require-
ments of OEMS are in alignment with, 
and in some respects exceed, the require-
ments of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, the 
leading global standards for excellence 
in environmental management and health 
and safety management, respectively. 
See page 5 for further discussion of OEMS.

Implementing Our Environmental Strategy
In 2006, we continued to implement our
three strategic priorities for environmental
performance as established in 2004:
defining world-class standards, measuring
and communicating performance, and
demonstrating continual performance
improvement.

Defining World-Class Standards
We continued to strengthen OEMS in 2006
by establishing environmental management
standards. At the corporate level, we
deployed a corporate risk management
process that provides a standardized
approach for identifying and managing risks
that include health, the environment and
safety for both new and existing facilities
companywide. We also developed a
corporate Environmental, Social and Health
Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process that
extends to all parts of the company. 
Finally, a corporate Third-Party Waste

California’s semi-arid San Joaquin Valley is a major U.S. agricultural area and needs more water to supplement
existing water supplies. Since 1996, Chevron has worked with the Cawelo Water District to export produced water
from the Kern River oil field into a reservoir that irrigates more than 46,000 acres (18,600 hectares) of agricultural
land. Steve Harris (above) is from the laboratory that tests the reservoir’s water. 

Stewardship Process was developed to help
manage our risks by establishing uniform
standards for third-party waste facilities.

At an operating-company level, our
international upstream organization adopted
a standard for the management of produced
water, a byproduct of the oil and gas
production process. 

Taken together, applying these new
performance standards demonstrates our
commitment to protecting the environment.

“Stakeholder engagement is a cornerstone
of the ESHIA process. It begins early in
the project evaluation and design phase
and continues throughout a project’s life.
The dialogue it establishes provides a
mechanism for the community and other
external stakeholders to share their
expectations and concerns about
potential impacts. It also provides a 
way for Chevron to communicate with
stakeholders on an ongoing basis.”

Charles “Buzz” Morris, General Manager
Health, Environment and Safety
Chevron Global Upstream

35

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 36

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Integration of Biodiversity Into OEMS
Biodiversity refers to the variety of life on
earth and includes ecosystems, species and
genes, and the ecological processes that
support them. We recognize the importance
of biodiversity conservation and support it
through our performance and engagement
on the issue. 

During 2006, we developed guidance on 
how to address biodiversity-related issues
and integrated this guidance into ESHIA and
risk management. We also continued to play
an active role in external initiatives to
support biodiversity conservation, primarily
through the Biodiversity Working Group 
of the International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association 
and the International Association of 
Oil & Gas Producers. These groups have
developed tools designed to support
industry performance on biodiversity.

Chevron provides financial assistance to 
a wide range of organizations involved in
biodiversity conservation. In 2006, support

was focused on improving the quality 
and availability of key biodiversity data 
for decision making by conservation
organizations, governments, business 
and other sectors (please see below).

To further contribute to the availability 
of biodiversity data, we have worked 
with the National Oceanography Centre,
Southampton, United Kingdom, and other
organizations on Project SERPENT
(Scientific and Environmental ROV
Partnership Using Existing Industrial
Technology). (ROV stands for remotely
operated vehicle.) The groundbreaking
project collects biological data from remote
deep-sea environments, made available
through company offshore oil and gas
activities. The information is shared with
science, conservation groups and the
general public to increase knowledge and
awareness of these relatively unexplored
marine environments. Our Canadian,
European and U.S. Gulf of Mexico 
operations are actively engaged in the
SERPENT partnership.

Measuring and Communicating Performance
Chevron has been measuring and
communicating our performance in spills,
energy efficiency and greenhouse gases
since 2002. In 2006, at the corporate level,
we began compiling baseline data to track
water and waste performance. Compiling
and analyzing this information at the
corporate level will allow us to assess 
overall performance and compare the
relative performance of business units 
to drive continuous improvement.

Demonstrating Continual Improvement 
Our performance in air emissions and
petroleum spills is summarized in the 
data charts on page 37. The volume of
petroleum spilled was less than half that 
of nonhurricane-related spills in 2005. 
Our chemical spill volume for 2006 
was 335,743 kilograms, with a total of 
99,246 kilograms recovered. As described 
in the Climate Change section of this report,
we saw strong performance trends in our
GHG emissions and energy efficiency.

SUPPORT FOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION

A NATURE PRESERVE IN NIGERIA

The following organizations involved in biodiversity
conservation received financial assistance from 
Chevron in 2006:

(cid:2) World Conservation Union for its Species Information

Service and Conservation Commons projects.

(cid:2) United Nations Environment Programme World

Conservation Monitoring Centre for its Project Proteus,
addressing the World Database of Protected Areas.

(cid:2) Conservation International and NatureServe for

biodiversity database–related work.

In partnership with the Nigerian
Conservation Center, Chevron developed 
the Lekki Conservation Center, established in
1992. It serves as a place for environmental
research and youth education. It is also a
preserve for local flora and fauna, such as
this red-headed agama.

36

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 37

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

Global Air Emissions 1, 2
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Air Emissions 1
Metric tons

Petroleum Spills
Volume in barrels

Upstream    Downstream    Other

VOCs    SOx    NOx

Total volume    Volume recovered

VOCs

2006

2005

2004

2003

N/A

SOx

2006

2005

2004

2003

NOx

2006

2005

2004

2003

118,210

118,874

133,399

151,967

138,104

121,916

114,297

125,630

383,914

468,703

426,772

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

9,995

11,276

10,416

11,637

7,598

7,443

6,675

7,153

7,303

8,555

7,990

8,535

8,213

10,501

11,356

6,099

3,923

11,202

15,514

9,905

10,659

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

26,540

27,805

47,9343

54,696

3 Of the total volume of spills in 2005 (47,934 barrels),
more than 73 percent (35,178 barrels) were hurricane-
related. This compares with 20 percent (3,100 barrels) 
of the total volume of spills in 2004 that were
hurricane-related.

Global Air Emissions by sector 1, 2
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Air Emissions 1
Metric tons per million barrels processed

Petroleum Spills
Number of spills

Upstream

Downstream

Other

VOCs

SOx

NOx

2006
2005
2004
2003

2006
2005
2004
2003

2006
2005
2004
2003

357,727
445,049
402,362
N/A

82,922
87,455
96,809
111,050

113,001
97,829
89,764
100,046

26,100
23,442
24,330
N/A

25,574
23,986
26,091
29,010

16,020
15,837
13,877
13,109

87
212
80
N/A

9,714
7,433
10,499
11,907

9,083
8,250
10,656
12,475

2006
2005
2004
2003
2002

VOCs

30
25
22
25
25

SOx

34
35
36
3 1
33

NOx

23
22
23
24
24

2006
2005
2004
2003
2002

803
846
986
1,145
1,502

1 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) derive primarily from flaring and venting, fugitive leaks from equipment (such as 

valves, pumps and compressors), and flashing gas. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) occur during combustion.

2 Global NOx emissions increased by approximately 13 percent compared with 2005. This is primarily due to reporting
emissions from former Unocal assets for the entire year in 2006, compared with just five months in 2005 (Chevron
acquired Unocal in August 2005). This increase was somewhat offset by a decrease in NOx emissions from one business
unit due to a reduction in flaring, which also resulted in an associated decrease of SOx emissions. Global VOCs emissions
from Chevron’s operations decreased compared with 2005. This decrease was due primarily to improved estimates of
emissions as part of ongoing improvements in our environmental reporting.

DOCUMENTING DEEP-SEA SPECIES

This octopus was photographed in water
depths of 7,671 feet (2,338 meters) in the
Orphan Basin, 250 miles (400 km) off the
Newfoundland, Canada, coast in the North
Atlantic. This is just one of many species 
we recorded for the international scientific
project called SERPENT. Remotely operated
vehicles used during drilling operations 
are mounted with high-resolution camera
systems that provide rare visual access for 

scientific researchers. Initial results include
exceptional images that have expanded the
range of several deepwater fish species and
may result in the discovery of rare or new
species. By participating in projects such 
as SERPENT, and through broadly sharing
information, we hope to contribute to an
increased understanding and awareness of
marine life in these unexplored frontiers.

37

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 38

INTRODUCTION

PERFORMANCE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW

Preventing Shipping Oil Spills
By year-end 2006, all Chevron-operated
vessels were double-hulled. More than 
90 percent of the chartered vessels we use
to transport products also are double-hulled. 

Emergency Preparation and Response
Chevron’s ability to deliver world-class
performance rests in part on managing
routine aspects of our business and our
response to unplanned incidents. Our
commitment to sound emergency response
preparedness and capability is integral to our
operations. Trained emergency response
teams are able to rapidly respond to
incidents. Preparedness plans are also in
place for hurricanes, pandemic influenza and
earthquakes. We conduct training and drills
on an ongoing basis and work collaboratively
with industry groups to share lessons learned
and resources on emergency preparedness. 

Update on Ecuador Litigation
Chevron continued in 2006 to vigorously
defend itself against litigation alleging
environmental damage from Texaco
Petroleum Company’s (Texpet) former
operations in Ecuador. Texpet was a minority
partner in an oil-producing consortium from
1964 to 1992 with state-owned oil company
Petroecuador. Chevron is challenging the
lawsuit on both scientific and legal grounds.

At the close of 2006, the court had
completed 45 scheduled field inspections.
The overwhelming body of evidence
obtained by Chevron’s nominated experts
shows there are no significant oil-related
risks to health and the environment in the
areas remediated by Texpet. The Texpet
remediation program was approved by the
government of Ecuador, which in 1998
granted a full release of claims and liabilities
to Texpet and its affiliated companies. 
As such, Texpet met all of its obligations 

PT. Chevron Pacific Indonesia employees participated in a regional oil spill exercise in Dumai, Indonesia, in April 2006.
The scenario for this drill was a ship-to-ship collision causing a range of problems – search and rescue for missing
personnel, fire fighting from the dock, and containing a large oil spill.

and performed in accordance with
Ecuadorian government requirements.

We continue to keep the public informed
about this lawsuit through updates, in both
English and Spanish, on our Web site. [1] 

Environmental Expenditures 
Using definitions and guidelines 
established by the American Petroleum
Institute, Chevron estimated its worldwide
environmental spending in 2006 at
approximately $2.2 billion for its
consolidated companies. Included in 
these expenditures were approximately 

$870 million of environmental capital
expenditures and $1.3 billion of costs
associated with the prevention, control,
abatement or elimination of hazardous
substances and pollutants from operating,
closed or divested sites, and the
abandonment and restoration of sites.

Environmental, Health and Safety Fines 
and Settlements 
US$ millions

2002 2003

2004 2005 2006

Total paid

Total number

4.28

278

3.99

470

6.33

469

4.27

8.77

577

699

38

[1] www.texaco.com/sitelets/ecuador/en/

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 39

SOCIOECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE

RESOURCES

About This Report Glossary

This report covers 2006 data and activities. We
also occasionally mention events that took place
in early 2007 when they help provide a clearer
picture of our performance. This report covers
our owned or operated businesses and does not
address the performance of our suppliers,
contractors or partners, unless otherwise noted.
All financial information is reported in U.S.
dollars. Our previous report was published in
April 2006 and covered 2005 data and activities.

Information contained in this report has not been
subject to external assurance, with the exception
of data included in the company’s consolidated
financial statements.

We continue to be informed by reporting
frameworks and guidelines that include the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil 
and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary
Sustainability Reporting, published in 2005 
by the International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA)
and the American Petroleum Institute (API). 
We have included an index to help readers find
information corresponding to the GRI and
API/IPIECA indicators (see next page).

Cautionary Statement Relevant 
to Forward-Looking Information
This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron
Corporation contains forward-looking statements
relating to the manner in which Chevron intends
to conduct certain of its activities, based on
management’s current plans and expectations.
These statements are not promises or
guarantees of future conduct or policy and are
subject to a variety of uncertainties and other
factors, many of which are beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities,
including the development, implementation or
continuation of any program, policy or initiative
discussed or forecast in this report may differ
materially in the future. The statements of
intention in this report speak only as of the date
of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation
to publicly update any statements contained in
this report.

Legal Notice
As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and
such terms as “the company,” “the corporation,”
“their,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may refer to
one or more of Chevron’s consolidated
subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken 
as a whole. All of these terms are used for
convenience only and are not intended as a
precise description of any of the separate
entities, each of which manages its own affairs. 

Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A unit of measure
to quantify crude oil and natural gas amounts
using the same basis. Natural gas volumes are
converted to barrels on the basis of energy
content. See Production. 

Nongovernmental organization (NGO)
An organization that is independent from
government, generally a nonprofit organization
devoted to providing assistance to or advancing 
a particular cause or issue. 

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on 
earth. It encompasses genes, species, habitats and
ecosystems, and the processes that support them. 

OHSAS 18001 An international Occupational
Health and Safety Assessment Series
management system specification.

Business Conduct and Ethics Code Describes
proper business conduct within Chevron and
includes an overview of several of the most
important laws and policies governing that
conduct. All employees and board members 
must understand and comply with the code.

Capacity building A key area of focus for
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which
means targeting support toward programs that
help individuals and institutions develop the skills,
capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.

The Chevron Way Explains our values: who 
we are, what we do, what we believe and what 
we plan to accomplish. 

Condensates Liquid hydrocarbons produced with
natural gas, separated by cooling and other means. 

Downstream The industry term used to refer 
to all petroleum activities, from the process of
refining crude oil into petroleum products to the
distribution, marketing and sales of the products. 

Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) A corporate standard
process that requires capital projects to be
evaluated for potential environmental, social and
health impacts and requires that appropriate
mitigation measures be developed. ESHIA
improves decision making and incorporates
stakeholder engagement throughout the project’s
life cycle. The process makes sure that project
impacts are eliminated or mitigated and benefits
enhanced. ESHIA was adopted for deployment as
a corporate standard in January 2007.

Flaring and venting The burning or release of
natural gas that is often produced in association
with crude oil, a process that typically occurs when
there is no market or onsite use for the gas.

Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts
natural gas into high-quality transportation fuels. 

Geothermal energy A renewable source of
energy that uses the heat energy of the earth to
produce electricity or to use directly for heating.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
A multistakeholder process and independent
institution whose mission is to develop and
disseminate globally applicable sustainability
reporting guidelines. 

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap 
heat in the earth’s atmosphere; such gases
include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and 
sulfur hexafluoride. 

ISO 14001 Environmental management system
standard developed by the International
Standards Organization.

Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to
facilitate storage or transportation in specially
designed vessels. 

Operating company A major Chevron company
organized for a specific business purpose. 

Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to
systematic management of safety, health, 
the environment, reliability and efficiency in
order to achieve world-class performance. 

Operator Term used to describe a company
appointed by venture stakeholders to take
primary responsibility for day-to-day operations
for a specific plant or activity.

Partner In this report, partner is used in its
broad sense to mean a person or organization
associated with another in a common activity 
or one that shares a mutual interest. It does 
not imply a member of a contractual partnership
in which the partners jointly own and carry on 
a business and proportionally share in liabilities,
profits or losses of the business. 

Production Total production refers to all the 
crude oil and natural gas produced from a property.
Gross production is the company’s share of total
production before deducting royalties. Net
production is gross production minus royalties
paid to landowners. See Barrels of oil-equivalent. 

Renewable energy Energy resources that are 
not depleted when consumed or converted 
into other forms of energy (for example, solar,
geothermal, ocean and tide, and wind). 

Reserves Crude oil or natural gas contained in
underground rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities 
that geologic and engineering data demonstrate
can be produced with reasonable certainty 
from known reservoirs under existing economic
and operating conditions. Estimates change as
additional information becomes available. 

Revenue transparency Refers to the practice 
of disclosing certain financial arrangements
related to energy industry operations by 
industry and governments. 

Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate
interest in our company’s performance. 

Transparency Making relevant and accurate
information available to those with a legitimate
interest in the organization. 

Upstream Industry term for crude oil and natural
gas exploration and production activities.

Voluntary Principles on Security and Human
Rights Principles developed by extractive-sector
companies, human rights organizations, a trade
union, and the U.S. and U.K. governments to
guide companies in maintaining the safety and
security of their operations within a framework
that ensures respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms.

39

213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 40

GRI and API/IPIECA Index

This index refers to: 
(cid:2) 2002 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially reported. 
(cid:2) American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (API/IPIECA) sustainability reporting indicators.

API/IPIECA 
(Additional indicators in italics)

Where reported

VISION AND STRATEGY

PROFILE

GRI
(Additional indicators in italics)
1.1  1.2

Organizational Profile   2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5–2.8 
Report Scope  2.10 2.11–2.13 2.14 2.15  2.16  
Report Profile  2.17  2.18 2.19 2.20 2.21 2.22

GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Structure and Governance  3.1  3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6  3.7 3.8
Stakeholder Engagement  2.9  3.9 3.10–3.12  
Overarching Policies and Management Systems  3.13 3.14  
3.15 3.16  3.17 3.18 3.19  3.20
GRI Content Index  4.1

ENV-6  H&S-1

Customers  EC1 EC2
Suppliers  EC3 EC4
Employees  EC5
Providers of Capital  EC6 EC7
Public Sector  EC8 EC9 EC10
Indirect Economic Impacts  EC13

Materials  EN1  EN2
Energy  EN3 EN4 EN17
Water  EN5 1
Biodiversity  EN6 EN7  EN25 EN27
Emissions, Effluents and Waste  EN8 EN9 EN10 EN11  EN12
EN13 EN30
Products and Services  EN141 EN15
Compliance  EN16
Transport  EN34 1
Overall  EN35

ECO-A2
ECO-2  ECO-3 ECO-A3
ECO-1  ECO-A1 SOC-A4

ENV-5  ENV-A8
ENV-A7
ENV-A9
ENV-1 ENV-A1 ENV-2 ENV-A2 ENV-3
ENV-A3 ENV-4 ENV-A4  ENV-A5 ENV-A6

Employment  LA1  LA2
Employee Satisfaction
Labor/Management Relations  LA3 LA4
Health and Safety  LA5  LA6 LA7  LA8
Training and Education  LA9
Diversity and Opportunity  LA10  LA11 1
Strategy and Management  HR1 HR2 HR3  
Nondiscrimination  HR4
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  HR5
Child Labor  HR6
Forced and Compulsory Labor  HR7
Disciplinary Practices  HR10
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Community  SO1
Bribery and Corruption  SO2
Political Contributions  SO3  SO5
Competition and Pricing  SO7
Customer Health and Safety  PR1
Products and Services  PR2
Respect for Privacy  PR3

SOC-A3
SOC-A2

H&S-2  H&S-3 H&S-4
SOC-5

SOC-1
SOC-4
SOC-7

SOC-6
SOC-9
SOC-A6
SOC-A4  SOC-A5  SOC-A7 SOC-8
SOC-2
SOC-3 SOC-A1

H&S-5

Key to Indicators:      Fully Reported in 2006

Partially Reported in 2006

Not Covered in 2006      Not Applicable   

1

Information responsive to this indicator appears on the Web version of this report or elsewhere on www.chevron.com.
Please visit www.chevron.com/cr_report/2006/ to view a more detailed indicator index.

ECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENTAL

SOCIAL
Labor Practices and Decent Work

Human Rights

Society

Product Responsibility

40

2–11, 16

3, 7
39, 41
39, 41

4–5, 16, 25
16–17, 27
4–9, 16, 18, 20,
25–27, 30, 35 
40

7
21
7, 14
7
7, 16, 22–23, 26–27
21–22

–
11, 30–34
–
36–37
30–31, 35–37

26–27, 30–31
38

38

14
15
14
2, 18–20, 26
16–17
14–15, 25
25
25
25
25
25
4–5
25
–
16–17, 21–24, 26–27
4–5, 16
17
4–5
20
20
–

This Corporate Responsibility Report, previous editions
This Corporate Responsibility Report, previous editions
of our report and additional information can be found 
of our report and additional information can be found 
in the Corporate Responsibility section of our Web site,
in the Corporate Responsibility section of our Web site,
www.chevron.com/cr_report/2006/. We welcome your
www.chevron.com/cr_report/2006/. We welcome your
comments and feedback at CRReport@chevron.com. 
comments and feedback at CRReport@chevron.com. 

Chevron’s 2006 Annual Report, Managing the Energy Portfolio, and the Supplement to the
Chevron’s 2006 Annual Report, Managing the Energy Portfolio, and the Supplement to the
Annual Report are available in the Investor Relations section of our Web site, www.chevron.com. 
Annual Report are available in the Investor Relations section of our Web site, www.chevron.com. 
Printed copies of these documents can also be ordered on the Web site.
Printed copies of these documents can also be ordered on the Web site.

2006 Annual Report

2006 Annual Report
2006 Annual Report

Managing 
the energy
portfolio

2006 Supplement to the Annual Report
2006 Supplement to the Annual Report

Cert no. SW-COC-1436
Cert no. SW-COC-1436

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent
This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine–free and produced using wind energy.
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine–free and produced using wind energy.

© 2007 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.
© 2007 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

2006 Corporate Responsibility Report

2006 Corporate Responsibility Report
2006 Corporate Responsibility Report

CR Report design by Flag www.flag.co.uk
CR Report design by Flag www.flag.co.uk

41
41

(cid:58)(cid:95)(cid:92)(cid:109)(cid:105)(cid:102)(cid:101)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:96)(cid:102)(cid:101)
(cid:45)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:40)(cid:23)(cid:57)(cid:102)(cid:99)(cid:99)(cid:96)(cid:101)(cid:94)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:88)(cid:101)(cid:112)(cid:102)(cid:101)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:102)(cid:88)(cid:91)
(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:101)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:100)(cid:102)(cid:101)(cid:35)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:56)(cid:23)(cid:48)(cid:43)(cid:44)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:36)(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:43)
(cid:110)(cid:110)(cid:110)(cid:37)(cid:90)(cid:95)(cid:92)(cid:109)(cid:105)(cid:102)(cid:101)(cid:37)(cid:90)(cid:102)(cid:100)

(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:45)(cid:59)(cid:23)(cid:43)(cid:38)(cid:39)(cid:46)

