2015  
corporate responsibility  
report highlights

getting results  
the right way 
for complete reporting, visit  
chevron.com/reporting

the chevron way explains  
who we are, what we do, what we believe  
and what we plan to accomplish

At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy  
company most admired for its people, partnership and performance.

We make this vision a reality by consistently putting  
our values into practice. The Chevron Way values distinguish us and  
guide our actions so that we get results the right way. 

Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, protecting  
people and the environment, and high performance.

read more  chevron.com/chevronway

unlocking  
opportunities  
together

We partner with some of our largest 
international contractors to bring 
more local producers into their  
supply chains. In Colombia, we are  
collaborating with global food services 
contractor Compass Group and the 
nongovernmental organization VITAL 
on a partnership designed to help 
smallholder farmers meet Compass’s 
high standards of quality.  

As a result, many of these farmers now 
sell their fruits, vegetables and other 
products to Compass, which means 
Chevron Colombia employees are 
enjoying this locally grown food when 
they sit down to eat at our facilities. 
More important, those farmers are 
enjoying improved livelihoods thanks 
to the reliable demand and fair pricing 
that Compass offers as a customer. 

Currently, more than 90 farmers have 
taken part in the program.

On the cover: By providing avocados from 
his La Guajira Province, Colombia, farm 
to Chevron through the Compass-VITAL 
partnership, Exavier Guerra has doubled his 
income and developed the technical and 
business skills needed to commercialize his 
surplus produce.

learn more  chevron.com/creatingprosperity

a message from our chairman and  
chief executive officer

2015 was one of our best years ever in preventing significant 
safety and environmental incidents. Our Days Away From 
Work Rate, Motor Vehicle Crash Rate and petroleum spill 
volume set record lows, and our Total Recordable Incident 
Rate matched last year’s record low. Chevron is committed 
to meeting our goal of zero incidents and will continue to 
focus on achieving world-class performance in all measures  
of safety and environmental stewardship. This includes 
managing our use of freshwater resources and reducing 
natural gas flaring and venting to minimize greenhouse gas 
emissions. Our Operational Excellence Management System 
provides a disciplined approach to working safely, protecting  
the environment, and operating reliably and efficiently.

You can track our progress at chevron.com/cr, where we 
provide additional details about our efforts to partner with 
people, projects and communities to create prosperity and 
make lives better. Over the past 10 years, we have made 
approximately $1.9 billion in social investments in local  
communities. In 2015, we advanced our strategic programs 
and partnerships with more than $233 million in global 
social investments. We focused these investments in three 
core areas—health, education and economic development—
to develop skilled workers, improve access to health care, 
and boost local and regional economies. 

John S. Watson
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer

For more than 135 years, Chevron has focused on safely 
developing affordable and reliable energy to enable global 
economic growth and make lives better. Our products  
and services continue to be critical for economic progress, 
and our fundamentals remain strong. We also remain com-
mitted to operational excellence (OE) and the communities 
in which we work. 

These social investments complement our investments in 
projects and local goods and services, creating jobs and 
generating revenues for the communities where we operate. 
In 2015, we spent $54 billion on goods and services globally. 
Going forward, our spending in this area will reflect our  
continued commitment to the communities where we 
operate as well as the business environment.

We are guided, as always, by The Chevron Way. This  
road map underpins the character of our company and 
establishes the values by which we deliver our results.  
Our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report highlights three  
of our values—acting with integrity, protecting people 
and the environment, and engaging in partnership. It also 
illustrates our belief that corporate responsibility is about 
putting the values of The Chevron Way into action. 

We conduct our business in a socially responsible and 
ethical manner. We respect the law, support universal human 
rights, protect the environment and benefit the communi-
ties in which we work. We strive to meet the highest ethical 
standards in all business dealings, and in 2015, we reinforced 
this with our service providers, underlining our expectation 
that they abide by our human rights policies. 

We thank you for your confidence and investment in Chevron 
as we continue working every day to achieve our vision 
of being the global energy company most admired for its 
people, partnership and performance.

May 2016

chevron.com/cr
1

corporate responsibility at chevron

for more than 135 years, chevron  
has proudly developed the energy that people  
and businesses depend on — helping to  
spur economic growth and improve the quality  
of life for communities worldwide

We define corporate responsibility as putting the values of 
The Chevron Way into action. These values place the highest 
priority on maintaining ethical standards, respecting the  
law, supporting universal human rights, protecting people 
and the environment, and benefiting the communities where 
we work. Our focus on corporate responsibility is integrated 
into key business policies and processes, including our 

Business Conduct and Ethics Code, our Human Rights  
Policy, and our Operational Excellence Management System.  
This framework of policies and processes provides a stand- 
ardized approach that enables us to identify and manage 
the corporate responsibility–related risks we encounter in 
our global business and to promote continual improvement 
of our safety, environmental and social performance.

Above: Students at Dossymov School #12 in Atyrau, Kazakhstan, participate in interactive life-skills training as part of the Atyrau Youth 
Development Initiative, a social investment program designed to prepare youth for future success in the workplace and society.

chevron.com/cr
2

prioritizing issues for our reporting

focusing on 
what matters

Our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on environ-
mental, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter  
to our business and our stakeholders—investors, customers, 
host governments, local communities and employees.  
To select the content for our 2015 Corporate Responsibility 
Report Highlights and the corporate responsibility section  
of chevron.com, we used an issue prioritization process  
that involved the following steps:

Step 1: A team of employees from across our functions and 
business segments identified ESG topics that are salient 
to our stakeholders and our business. To do so, the team 
used internal and external sources, including international 
reporting guidelines and frameworks, ESG analytics, topics 
addressed in previous Corporate Responsibility Reports, 
feedback received on the 2014 Corporate Responsibility 
Report Highlights, media analysis, industry peer reviews,  
and a range of stakeholder engagements.

Step 2: The team conducted an initial prioritization of ESG 
issues based on their relevance to our business.

Step 3: The team sought feedback on the initial prioritiza-
tion of issues through dialogues with internal subject matter 
experts and external stakeholders.

Step 4: The team determined the issues that are of highest 
priority for our reporting, and we discuss each in this report 
and on our website.

Our prioritized issues reflect topics covered in the 2015 
edition of the IPIECA/API/IOGP* Oil and gas industry  
guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. For 2015, 
Chevron reported on all 34 indicators. An IPIECA/API/IOGP 
content index is available on page 29 of this report and  
at chevron.com/IPIECA.

 *IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and  
social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association of  
Oil & Gas Producers.

This Highlights report  
represents a snapshot of 
our 2015 performance.  
Our complete reporting  
on ESG issues and  
indicators can be found at  
chevron.com/reporting

contents

Governance and ethics
Human rights
Managing operational risk
 Serious incident and fatality prevention
Emergency management
Environmental stewardship
 Climate change and energy efficiency

4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16 
18  Water
20  Creating prosperity
24  Performance data
29  Additional reporting information

chevron.com/cr
3

integrity

achieving  
results through  
strong governance  
and ethics

Among Chevron’s core values  
is integrity, which means: 

We strive to meet  
the highest ethical standards  
in all business dealings. 

We are honest with  
others and ourselves. 

We do what we say we will do.

learn more  chevron.com/ethicsgovernance 

chevron.com/cr
4

achieving  

results through  

strong governance  

and ethics

Chevron holds its workforce to the highest standards of integrity and 
honesty and encourages employees to report questionable conduct.  
We believe in being transparent with and responsive to our stakeholders 
at all times, and we strive to comply with the letter and the spirit of  
all applicable laws when conducting Company business.

board of directors

governance

Chevron is governed by a Board of Directors that oversees 
the Company’s business affairs and meets throughout 
the year. The Board is committed to strong corporate 
governance structures and practices that help the Company 
achieve business results—the right way. The Board has four 
standing committees, each composed solely of independent 
Directors: Audit; Board Nominating and Governance; 
Management Compensation; and Public Policy. Directors 
fulfill their responsibilities through Board and committee 
meetings and also through other communications with 
management. The Board monitors corporate perform-
ance, the integrity of Chevron’s financial controls, and the 
effectiveness of its legal and political compliance and public 
policy and social programs. It also oversees management 
and succession of key executives and Chevron’s strategic 
and business planning process.

board and committee oversight of risk

Chevron faces a broad array of risks, including market,  
operational, strategic, legal, political and financial.  
To determine if appropriate risk management systems  
are employed throughout the Company, the Board and its 
committees oversee Chevron’s risk management policies 
and practices. The Public Policy Committee assists the  
Board in fulfilling its oversight of risks that may arise in 
connection with the social, political, environmental, human 
rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business  
and the communities in which it operates. The committee 
discusses risk management in the context of, among  
other things, legislative and regulatory initiatives, safety  
and environmental stewardship, community relations,  
government and nongovernmental organization relations,  
and Chevron’s reputation. The committee reports its  
discussions to the full Board for consideration and action 
when appropriate.

For Chevron, good corporate governance means having 
structures and processes in place to make sure that the 
Company’s decisions and actions are in the best interests 
of our stockholders. It also means being transparent with 
and responsive to our stockholders. Through our Investor 
Relations and Corporate Governance departments, we 
engage directly with many of our stockholders in meetings 
to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive 
compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy 
issues, and we engage with all of them through reports, 
press releases and the Company’s website. All stockholder 
communications addressed to the nonemployee Directors 
are available to the Board and reviewed by the Board 
Nominating and Governance Committee.

business ethics 

Chevron takes the conduct of its employees seriously  
and encourages questionable conduct to be reported.  
This may include, for example, violations of Company policy 
or of the Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code,  
which contains a description of how we administer oversight 
of our compliance program and information about the 
avenues through which employees can report misconduct. 
One reporting method available to the entire workforce is 
the Chevron Hotline, which is operated offsite by Global 
Compliance Services (AlertLine®), an independent agent. 
In addition, our Global Office of Ombuds provides a safe, 
confidential environment outside formal reporting channels 
to resolve workplace concerns. Employees may contact 
an Ombudsman at any time, regardless of the stage of the 
concern or severity of the issue.

additional resources
chevron.com/corporategovernance
chevron.com/BCEC

chevron.com/cr
5

integrity

respecting  
human rights

although governments have the  
primary duty to protect and ensure fulfillment  
of human rights, chevron believes that  
we have a responsibility to respect human  
rights and that we can play a positive  
role in the communities where we operate 

learn more  chevron.com/humanrights

In Rakhine State, Myanmar, Kayala Oo of Unocal 
Myanmar Offshore Co., Ltd. (a Chevron subsidiary) 
leads a social impact assessment meeting with 
local community members and other stakeholders.

respecting  

human rights

human rights policy

Chevron’s Human Rights Policy, adopted in 2009, fosters 
greater awareness of human rights issues throughout  
the Company and enhances our capabilities to identify  
and manage human rights across our business. It focuses 
on evaluating how our operations may impact communities, 
engaging with suppliers on issues related to human rights, 
conducting responsible security operations and treating our 
employees in a manner consistent with The Chevron Way. 
The policy is governed by an executive leadership body and 
involves oversight by our Board of Directors.

We operationalize our Human Rights Policy by disseminating 
processes, procedures and tools to Chevron practitioners, 
including guidance on training and conducting risk assess-
ments, on managing relationships with communities, and on  
engaging with business suppliers and security providers. 
Our policy is consistent with the United Nations Guiding Prin- 
ciples on Business and Human Rights, which were developed 
through consultation with stakeholders, including Chevron.

Our policy is embedded in the Chevron Business Conduct 
and Ethics Code compliance training for all employees.  
We also provide various levels of training for individuals 
most likely to encounter issues related to human rights.

communities 

Chevron identifies and manages potential community 
impacts through a variety of processes and tools, including 
social impact assessments and guidance on how best to 
engage with indigenous peoples and manage resettlement.

In 2015, Chevron launched exploration offshore Myanmar.  
We are committed to maintaining our respect for human 
rights throughout our operations. We engaged our seismic 
acquisition contractor in discussions on the management  
of potential scenarios related to its offshore work that could 
involve human rights issues. In addition, we recently con-
ducted a social impact assessment using an internationally 
respected third-party contractor with expertise in human 
rights. In 2016, we will report on the corporate responsibil-
ity efforts we have undertaken in Myanmar in accordance 
with the U.S. Department of State’s Responsible Investment 
Reporting Requirements for Burma.

suppliers

Chevron spends billions of dollars every year on goods 
and services globally. We encourage our suppliers to treat 
their employees and interact with communities in ways that 
respect human rights. We require that our key suppliers 
adhere to all domestic laws and encourage them to align 
their practices with the International Labour Organization’s 
(ILO) core principles of freedom of association, the right  

to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and com-
pulsory labor, the abolition of child labor, and the elimination 
of discrimination in the workplace. We also use regular  
communication with our key suppliers to reinforce our 
human rights principles and to raise our suppliers’ aware-
ness of potential human rights issues. 

In 2015, we sent a letter to the senior leaders of more than 
400 goods and services companies. The letter, which is 
posted online at chevron.com/humanrights, outlined 
Chevron’s commitment to respecting human rights and our 
expectation that our business partners treat their employees 
and interact with communities in a manner consistent with 
our Human Rights Policy and the ILO’s core labor principles.

security providers 

As a founding member of the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights Initiative (VPI), which launched 
in 2000, Chevron has long demonstrated its commitment to  
responsible security. The VPI is a multistakeholder initiative  
with government, civil and business participants. It pro-
motes implementation of principles that guide extractive 
companies on how to provide security for their operations 
in a manner that respects human rights. These principles 
are embedded throughout Chevron’s global operations. 
Our Operational Excellence Management System provides a 
comprehensive framework to identify and mitigate security 
risk and helps align security operations with our Human 
Rights Policy. In 2015, we updated the process governing 
security guidelines and safeguards, helping us continue con-
ducting security operations in compliance with our Human 
Rights Policy and applicable national and international law.

employees

We treat our employees with dignity and respect and pro-
mote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Our Company 
policies and procedures adhere to all applicable domestic 
laws and are consistent with the ILO’s core labor principles.

committed to diversity and inclusion 
In 2015, for the 11th consecutive year, we achieved  
a rating of 100 percent on the Human Rights  
Campaign Corporate Equality Index, which ranks  
U.S. companies committed to lesbian, gay, bisexual  
and transgender (LGBT) equality in the workplace.  
Learn more about our diverse, engaged  
and capable workforce at chevron.com/diversity.

chevron.com/cr
7

protecting people and the environment

managing  
operational risk

fundamental to the chevron way is  
our commitment to protecting people and the  
environment, which includes developing  
energy safely and reliably to power human and  
economic progress worldwide

learn more  chevron.com/OE

0.02

motor vehicle  
crash rate*

In 2015, our workforce Motor Vehicle Crash Rate  
was the lowest we have ever recorded. 

*Workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven.

Above: Roger Dickinson, Pascagoula Base Oil Plant unit head 
operator, inspects the fire spray deluge at Chevron’s Pascagoula, 
Mississippi, refinery.

chevron.com/cr
8

managing  

operational risk

For the past 15 years, we have expanded our systems to 
support a culture of safety, environmental stewardship and 
top performance. We call this “operational excellence”  
(OE), and it drives everything we do. Our workforce truly 
believes that incidents are preventable, and we have  
policies, processes, tools and behavioral expectations in 
place to assist us in achieving our goal of zero incidents.

Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS)  
is a comprehensive, proven means to systematically  
manage process safety, personal safety and health, the 
environment, reliability, and efficiency. Through disciplined 
application of the OEMS, we identify and mitigate risks  
by integrating OE processes, standards, procedures and  
behaviors into our daily operations. Our OEMS is aligned 
with ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007, as well as  
with the Center for Chemical Process Safety’s Guidelines  
for Risk-Based Process Safety.*

The single largest factor for success in OE is leadership 
accountability. Leaders are focused on getting results the 
right way and behaving in accordance with our values. 
Executives and managers are accountable for running the 
OEMS, which involves oversight by our Board of Directors. 
Through their actions, leaders at every level manage and 
drive execution and reinforcement of the OE culture, instill 
operational discipline, and work to ensure that everyone  
in their organization complies with OE requirements.  
Across our business, leaders inspire their teams to strive to 
achieve zero safety, health and environmental incidents. 

Within the OEMS, we use a management system process  
to drive continual improvement toward world-class perform- 
ance. This process is linked to business planning and begins 
with defining a vision of success and setting objectives. 
Gaps between current performance and these objectives  
are identified during annual assessments. We develop plans 
to close gaps, and we then thoroughly review implementa-
tion performance.

We adopt and share best practices with our business and 
industry partners and continually take action to improve our 
practices and meet our commitments. In 2015, we contin-
ued to emphasize our focus on serious incident and fatality 
prevention as our most important priority.

 * Attestation: In 2015, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) attested 
that our OEMS meets the requirements of the International Organization 
for Standardization’s environmental management system standard and the 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series’ management system 
specification and verified that the OEMS is implemented throughout the 
corporation. Chevron has engaged LRQA for independent verification of  
the OEMS since 2004.

5

operational excellence 
objectives

Chevron’s OEMS provides a disciplined approach 
toward managing process safety, personal safety 
and health, the environment, reliability, and 
efficiency. We rigorously deploy our processes, 
standards and regulatory requirements to assure 
compliance, identify and manage risk of incidents, 
ensure preparedness for emergency response,  
and improve overall performance, focusing on  
five areas:

Safety: Achieve an incident- and injury-free 
workplace. 

Health: Promote a healthy workforce and mitigate 
significant workplace health risks.

Environment: Identify and mitigate environmental 
and process safety risks. 

Reliability: Operate with industry-leading asset 
integrity and reliability.

Efficiency: Efficiently use natural resources  
and assets.

Our commitment to OE extends beyond our  
employees to include our contractor workforce, 
our supply chain partners and the communities 
where we operate.

additional resources
chevron.com/OEMS
chevron.com/OEtenets

chevron.com/cr
9

protecting people and the environment

preventing  
serious  
incidents

chevron is committed to preventing  
serious incidents and fatalities, which requires  
operational discipline among our more than  
58,000 employees and our full-time-equivalent  
contractor workforce of 214,000

learn more  chevron.com/healthsafety

Kelly Gray, Chevron Australia production 
technician, monitors operating units in the 
Gorgon Operations central control room 
on Barrow Island, Western Australia.

chevron.com/cr
10

preventing  

serious  

incidents

We identify and mitigate risk by applying policies, processes and  
technologies to maintain our focus on achieving zero incidents.  
We also build leader fluency in human performance—the way people, 
culture, equipment, work systems and processes interact. Leaders  
are integrating these concepts to improve procedures and incident 
investigation quality and learning.

personal safety

Personal safety is managed by multiple processes within 
our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). 
Written safe-work practices are a core part of our compre-
hensive safety program. These safe-work practices help 
ensure that potentially hazardous work, such as electrical 
work and entry into a confined space, is properly planned, 
permitted, executed and closed out to prevent workplace 
injuries and incidents. We take steps to ensure that our 
contractors meet the same safety principles by making our 
expectations clear and verifying compliance with require-
ments for safe-work practices.

We eliminate or mitigate risks by identifying potential 
hazards, taking actions to reduce them and sharing what 
we know throughout our operations. To accomplish this, we 
have many tools—including our Preventing Serious Injuries 
and Fatalities Field Guide—to help our workforce identify 
potential hazards prior to starting work. These tools help 
those involved in high-risk activities identify and control  
the significant potential hazards unique to each job activity.  
We also started implementing worker-level training to 
increase awareness of error-likely situations. 

Although we have achieved industry-leading performance 
in preventing injuries, we still experienced three contractor 
fatalities in 2015, which is not acceptable to us. Each incident 
is thoroughly investigated so we can understand and learn 
from the root causes and put solutions in place to help 
prevent similar incidents. We share lessons learned through-
out the Company and apply them in our work practices.  
We have intensified management focus on assuring that 
critical safeguards are in place and functioning for high- 
risk activities. 

In 2015, we introduced the Serious Injury and Fatality Metric 
throughout the Company to help our operations reduce  
the potential for high-consequence events. We analyze actual 
incidents and near-miss events to gauge whether they had 
the potential to cause a fatality or serious injury. The metric 
helps facilitate dialogue and drive our operational focus 
on events with the highest potential consequence and the 
application of safeguards that keep us operating safely.

We are working with other companies in our industry to 
improve work processes that will help us prevent these 
serious incidents. We continue to maintain our sharp focus 
on verifying and validating that safeguards are in place, 
functioning and effective.

process safety

We also apply our OEMS to manage process safety as  
we work to prevent serious incidents, such as explosions, 
fires and accidental releases. To identify hazards and  
reduce risk, we conduct systematic reviews of facilities  
and projects, engaging third-party reviewers in certain 
cases, and we conduct in-depth hazard analyses to prevent 
injury and loss of containment. Multiple layers of protection 
are engineered into our designs to safeguard our operations  
and prevent or mitigate the possible effects of human  
mistakes and mechanical failures.

In 2015, we achieved a new low in combined Tier 1 and Tier 2  
loss-of-primary-containment incidents.* Programs aimed 
at improving these metrics involved enhancements to asset 
integrity management, effective operating procedures and 
risk management, process safety performance tracking, well 
safety, and the building of process safety competency at  
all levels of the organization.

Despite our success in reducing loss-of-containment events, 
serious incidents in 2015 remind us that we must continue 
to work toward zero process safety incidents. Through what 
we learn, we improve our procedures, training, maintenance 
programs and designs to avoid repeating incidents. We share  
lessons learned throughout the Company and with industry 
organizations, such as the American Petroleum Institute and 
the Center for Chemical Process Safety.

 * American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 defines Tier 1 loss-
of-primary-containment (LOPC) incidents as certain significant unplanned or 
uncontrolled releases of material from primary containment, including nontoxic 
and nonflammable materials. A Tier 2 Process Safety Event is an LOPC with 
lesser consequence.

Please refer to page 26 for an in-depth look at 
our health and safety performance data.

chevron.com/cr
11

protecting people and the environment

preparing for  
potential  
emergencies

chevron has processes and tools in place to  
effectively manage emergency response, business continuity  
and crisis management efforts, which are focused  
on prevention, preparedness, response and recovery

learn more  chevron.com/emergencymanagement

Chevron uses a tiered approach to emergency manage-
ment. Operating units develop site-specific emergency 
response and business continuity plans to prepare for all 
identified significant risks. Chevron’s Center for Emergency 
Preparedness and Response (CEPR) is responsible for  
providing guidance and expertise in emergency response, 
crisis management and business continuity. The CEPR  
develops and maintains emergency notification procedures; 
trains and supports emergency response teams; conducts 
drills; and routinely practices with organizations that provide 
emergency response support. Chevron also maintains 
Corporate Emergency Response Teams, composed of well-
trained personnel, to assist our operating units worldwide 
with emergency response preparedness.

In 2015, a major oil spill response drill conducted in 
Richmond, California, demonstrated how our Corporate 
Emergency Response Team worked effectively with local 
authorities to improve oil spill response in San Francisco 
Bay. The exercise included the use of cutting-edge drone 
technology to map the path of a simulated spill to improve 
response capabilities. These exercises met the certification 
requirements of the voluntary National Preparedness  
for Response Exercise Program,* in which Chevron  
participates annually. 

Chevron also participates in international oil spill  
cooperatives and has relationships with outside experts  
and contractors. We sit on the boards of directors of  
the two largest global oil spill cooperatives, the Marine 
Preservation Association and Oil Spill Response, Ltd.  
We also work with trade associations, including the 
American Petroleum Institute and IPIECA, the global  
oil and gas industry association for environmental and  
social issues, to advance oil spill preparedness worldwide.

We contract with spill response experts and organizations 
that can support us in areas such as incident management, 
wildlife management, oil spill and air dispersion modeling, 
toxicology, chemistry, fire-fighting, communications,  
shipping, and salvage.

Our executive crisis management committee conducts 
annual exercises to prepare for a range of scenarios that  
may affect the Company or require coordination across 
multiple operating companies.

 * The National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) was 
developed to establish a workable exercise program that meets the intent of 
section 4202(a) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. PREP is a unified federal effort 
and satisfies the exercise requirements of the Coast Guard, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Research and Special Programs Administration Office of 
Pipeline Safety, and the Minerals Management Service.

chevron.com/cr
12

preparing for  

potential  

emergencies

In 2015, Chevron conducted a major oil  
spill response drill in Richmond, California,  
in coordination with local, state and  
federal agencies.

chevron.com/cr
13

protecting people and the environment

advancing  
environmental  
stewardship

protecting people and the environment  
is a chevron way value that guides  
our actions so that we get  
results the right way, every time

learn more  chevron.com/environment

Great hornbills (Buceros bicornis),  
a large bird species from the hornbill  
family, found near Chevron’s  
Dumai Camp, Sumatra, Indonesia.

chevron.com/cr
14

advancing  

environmental  

stewardship

Every day, our employees strive to responsibly manage  
the environmental aspects of our operations, which include: 

•  Accidental releases prevention and response
•  Air emissions
•  Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas
•  Natural resources, including water
•  Site residual impacts
•  Waste
•  Wastewater 

We make continual improvements in our environmental 
performance by following our Operational Excellence 
Management System and our Environmental Stewardship 
Corporate Standard Process, which require our businesses  
to systematically identify, assess and prioritize environ- 
mental risk and improvement opportunities. We also  
measure our environmental performance, which enables  
us to make informed business decisions around protection 
of the environment.

accidental releases 

In 2015, Chevron’s petroleum spill volume was the lowest 
ever recorded. These are some of the safeguards we use  
to prevent accidental releases, including petroleum spills:

•  Assurance of the integrity of our equipment design
•  Execution of maintenance programs 
•  Personnel training

oil spills to land or water*

60

30

s
l
e
r
r
a
b
f
o
s
d
n
a
s
u
o
h
T

2

11

2

1

Year 

2011 

2012 

2013 

2014 

2015

Chevron ranking relative to competitors, 1 being the lowest rate

 Competitor range: British Petroleum plc, ExxonMobil Corp.,  
Royal Dutch Shell

 *Source: Annual company sustainability reports: British Petroleum plc, 
ExxonMobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell. When needed, units converted  
to thousands of barrels (bbl) based on the following assumptions:  
1 ton = 7.3 bbl; 1 bbl = 0.16 cubic meters; 1 bbl = 159 liters.

chevron.com/cr
15

4

environmental  
principles

We have four environmental principles that  
define our commitment to doing business in an 
environmentally responsible manner, as we believe 
that protecting the environment is compatible 
with providing energy. These principles are imple-
mented across the life of our assets:

•   Include the environment in decision making  
We all make decisions that may affect the  
environment. From our everyday actions to 
major capital investments, we make better  
decisions when we consider the environment. 
•   Reduce our environmental footprint We use 

our business processes to identify and manage 
risks to the environment and reduce potential 
environmental impacts throughout the life  
of our assets.

•   Operate responsibly We apply our Tenets of 
Operation and improve reliability and process 
safety to prevent accidental releases. 

•   Steward our sites We work to decommission, 
remediate and reclaim operating and legacy 
sites with the aim of beneficial reuse.

Recent examples of how our environmental  
principles have been implemented include:

Reducing our footprint in Australia  
On Barrow Island, Australia, where we operate  
the Gorgon liquefied natural gas project, we  
carry out the world’s largest nongovernmental 
quarantine initiative that seeks to preserve the 
unique ecosystems on and around the island.  
Learn more at chevron.com/barrowisland.

Site stewardship in New Mexico  
In Questa, New Mexico, at the site of a century-old 
molybdenum mine, we worked to restore Eagle 
Rock Lake, a key recreational resource for the local 
community. The project involved remediation of 
impacted sediment and a redesign of the surface 
to enable improved access and better represent 
the region’s aesthetic.

060060060 
 
 
 
protecting people and the environment
protecting people and the environment

addressing  
climate change and  
energy efficiency

as the world works to address climate risks, we must create  
solutions that achieve environmental objectives  
without undermining growth of the global economy and  
our aspirations for a better quality of life for all

learn more  chevron.com/climatechange

GHG emissions by source*

t
n
e
l
a
v
i

u
q
e
-
₂
O
C
f
o
s
n
o
t

c
i
r
t
e
m
n
o

i
l
l
i

M

Year 

Total 

2011 

60 

Combustion 

66.2% 

Other 

Venting 

Flaring 

12.2% 

4.7% 

16.9% 

2012 

57 

67.5% 

13.0% 

3.9% 

15.6% 

2013 

57 

67.8% 

14.8% 

4.2% 

13.2% 

2014 

56 

66.5% 

17.5% 

4.7% 

11.3% 

2015

57

68.0%

16.6%

4.1%

11.3%

 *Equity basis. Please see footnotes 6 and 7 on page 28 for additional information.

chevron.com/cr
16

99 

points

We received an overall  
score of 99 out of 100 points  
in the 2015 CDP S&P 500  
Climate Change Report— 
the highest among all integrated  
oil and gas companies. 

This score reflects  
Chevron’s transparency in  
disclosing our GHG emissions  
and climate policies.

 
 
 
 
addressing  

climate change and  

energy efficiency

Chevron shares the concerns of governments and the 
public about climate change risks and recognizes that the 
use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs is a 
contributor to rising greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the earth’s 
atmosphere. GHGs contribute to an increase in global 
temperature. We believe that taking prudent, practical and 
cost-effective action to address climate change risks is the 
right thing to do. Mitigation of GHG emissions, adaptation to 
climate change, and continuation of scientific and techno-
logical research should all be considered.

greenhouse gas management

We are committed to managing our GHG emissions by 
reducing flaring and venting and improving energy  
efficiency in our day-to-day operations. We compile inven-
tories of our emissions, we undertake projects to manage 
operating emissions and we apply innovative technolo-
gies to continually improve the energy efficiency of our 
operations. We also assess the GHG emissions of our capital 
projects. When developing and approving major capital 
projects, we estimate a project’s incremental emissions 
profile, assess the financial impact of GHG regulations, and 
describe the emissions reduction options considered and 
implemented. We have developed tools to identify, assess 
and rank emissions reduction methods; conduct economic 
analysis; and integrate GHG factors into decision making  
and overall project development and management.

The primary sources of our GHG emissions are combustion 
of fuels for electricity and steam generation during our  
operations and, in some locations, flaring and venting of  
the natural gas that is extracted along with crude oil. 

Reductions in flaring and venting
Chevron is reducing natural gas flaring and venting and  
the GHG emissions that result from this practice. We are  
a member of the World Bank–led Global Gas Flaring 
Reduction Partnership, and we have developed internal 
country-specific plans to minimize gas flaring. Where  
feasible, we seek opportunities to reduce flaring and  
venting in our global operations.

Over the past five years, our upstream operations have 
made significant progress in reducing routine flaring 
through the completion of various gas gathering and  
flare reduction projects. In 2015, our Nigeria/Mid-Africa 
Business Unit commenced operation of the Escravos  
Gas Plant Phase 3B, which will reduce flaring from nine  
offshore production platforms. In addition, our Southern 
Africa Strategic Business Unit completed the Nemba 
Enhanced Secondary Recovery Project, which will reduce 
our flaring volumes in Angola.

Carbon dioxide injection
Chevron Australia commenced operation of the first train* 
of the Gorgon liquefied natural gas (LNG) project on Barrow 
Island at the beginning of 2016. Construction continues  
on the second and third trains, which will include execution 
of one of the largest carbon dioxide injection projects in  
the world. 

 *A train in this case refers to an LNG plant’s liquefaction and purification facility.

energy efficiency

Of all the ways to meet the world’s expanding energy needs, 
efficiency and conservation are the most cost effective and 
beneficial to the environment. Using energy more efficiently 
helps preserve our finite natural resources, lower energy 
costs and reduce carbon emissions. 

Some of our upstream operations are making sustained 
improvements in energy efficiency through implementation  
of their Surface Facilities Optimization Process, which  
facilitates identification, evaluation and implementation  
of projects that will conserve energy resources. In our 
IndoAsia Business Unit Sumatra operations, optimization 
efforts have resulted in a 7.5 percent improvement in fuel 
gas use efficiency. In the Gulf of Mexico, use of a fuel gas 
dashboard and systematic energy surveys significantly 
improved fuel efficiency at more than 18 offshore platforms. 
In the Saudi-Kuwaiti Partitioned Zone, more than 150 wells 
were tied in to the local power grid, eliminating the need  
for numerous low-efficiency diesel-fired generators. In our 
San Joaquin Valley Business Unit, projects to optimize  
steam generation and distribution resulted in a mitigation  
of 20,000 metric tons of GHGs through reduced fuel use. 

Building on examples like these from across the corporation, 
Chevron began development and implementation of a  
more systematic energy management practice, targeting 
operations that have the highest energy intensity.

additional resources
chevron.com/climateprinciples
chevron.com/GHGmanagement
chevron.com/energyefficiency

Please refer to pages 24 and 25 for  
methane, other GHG emissions and energy 
consumption data.

chevron.com/cr
17

protecting people and the environment

managing  
water  
resources

chevron recognizes the value of water  
as a fundamental social,  
environmental and economic resource

learn more  chevron.com/water

A water recycling plant at Chevron’s  
Cape Town, South Africa, refinery has 
reduced the facility’s water withdrawals 
by 75 percent. 

chevron.com/cr
18

managing  

water  

resources

As a global company, we know that access to adequate supplies of 
water, both fresh water and water of lower quality, is essential for the 
communities where we operate as well as for our ability to produce 
energy around the world. As users of this critical natural resource,  
we must manage it responsibly.

water management

fresh water withdrawn

We communicate our commitment to responsible manage-
ment of freshwater resources in our Freshwater Position 
Statement, which states that we strive to do the following:

•    Continually improve environmental performance and 

reduce impacts from our operations.

•   Integrate freshwater conservation and efficiency drivers 
into our business decision-making processes and opera-
tional management.

•    Conserve our use of fresh water in freshwater-constrained 
areas by reusing and recycling water and reducing the 
amount used.

•   Account for the use of fresh water in our operations with 

appropriate metrics.

•   Engage with governments, partners, local communities 

and other stakeholders on significant freshwater resource 
issues in areas where we operate.

•   Build partnerships and participate in industry initiatives to 
share and promote best practices, assist with the develop-
ment of industry standards, and shape and influence 
relevant freshwater resource policy.

We have continued to look for accurate ways of measuring 
our performance against these commitments. Over the  
past five years, we have incorporated water-related metrics, 
including collecting data on the amounts of fresh and 
nonfresh water withdrawn from the environment and the 
amount of fresh water returned to freshwater sources.  
In 2015, we began reporting fresh water consumed in align-
ment with the IPIECA* Reporting Standard. 

 *The global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues.

beneficial reuse

We responsibly manage our water resources by reusing 
water that is available to us. Our upstream operations reuse 
approximately 75 percent of the water that is brought to the 
surface when extracting oil and gas. One example of how we 
reuse this water is by heating and reinjecting it into another 
well to aid in our production processes, rather than using 
fresh water. In addition, most of our refineries around the 
world reuse treated wastewater at their locations. By reusing 
water, we reduce the amount of fresh water we withdraw 
from the environment.

s
r
e
t
e
m
c
i
b
u
c
n
o

i
l
l
i

M

Year 

Total 

2011 

93 

2012 

88 

2013 

93 

2014 

85 

2015

78

water recycling in South Africa
In Cape Town, South Africa, we partnered with  
Improchem on a water-recycling project  
that has reduced the amount of water withdrawn  
each day by our Cape Town Refinery by approximately  
75 percent. This reduction made water available  
for an additional 6,000 homes in Western Cape Province.  
Our refinery achieved this reduction by building  
a reverse osmosis plant that purifies treated wastewater  
from the Potsdam Wastewater Treatment Works  
to nearly drinking water quality. This purified  
water is subsequently reused onsite at our refinery.

Please refer to page 24 for an in-depth look at 
our water performance data.

chevron.com/cr
19

 
 
partnership

creating  
prosperity

through decades of experience, we have  
learned that our business success is deeply linked  
to society’s progress and prosperity

learn more  chevron.com/creatingprosperity

$54B

in total goods and  
services globally in 2015

In the United States, we spent nearly  
$800 million with woman- and minority-owned  
businesses and more than $2 billion  
on goods and services from small businesses.  
See page 25 for an in-depth look at  
our goods and services spend.

Above: Contract workers at Nigerdock Fabrication Yard, an  
indigenous subcontractor to Hyundai Heavy Industries, hired by 
Chevron Nigeria Limited to fabricate more than 7,000 tons  
of steel for the Meren gas gathering compression platform and 
Sonam Field Development Project. 

chevron.com/cr
20

creating  

prosperity

We invest significantly in major projects and local goods and  
services, create jobs, and generate revenues for local communities. 
Beyond our direct business investments and taxes, we make  
strategic social investments in three core areas: health, education  
and economic development.

building local capacity

local economic impact

Chevron has an unwavering commitment to being a good 
partner, which extends to our supply chain. We are focused 
on building productive and lasting relationships with local 
suppliers that provide goods and services for our major 
capital projects and ongoing operations. We use custom-
ized approaches to develop national and local content 
through collaborative partnerships with national and local 
governments, national oil companies, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs), and development agencies. Together, 
we identify high-impact, sustainable supplier and workforce 
development opportunities within our own and also our 
contractors’ supply chains. 

Once local companies are identified, we design and imple-
ment programs to help them meet industry standards and 
provide goods and services to Chevron and other oil and 
gas producers. Metrics are agreed upon with our partners 
and suppliers to make sure that quality, timeliness and cost 
objectives are achieved.

Chevron partners with independent research and analysis 
firms to quantify the economic contributions associated 
with our operations. These studies evaluate Chevron’s direct 
and indirect spending throughout our supply chain and 
demonstrate the positive impact on local employment and 
economies, which improves livelihoods.

contributions in Indonesia*
From 2009 through 2013, every Chevron job  
supported an average of 36 other jobs in Indonesia,  
and in 2013 alone, Chevron supported more  
than 260,000 jobs across a broad range of industries.  
Also in 2013, our operations contributed more  
than $11.9 billion (Rp120 trillion) to Indonesia’s  
economy, accounting for 1.4 percent of the country’s  
gross domestic product (GDP).

partnership in Kazakhstan
In Kazakhstan, where Chevron has a 50 percent interest in 
the Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture, the country’s  
largest private oil producer, we work with local  
companies to improve their ability to qualify as a TCO  
supplier. For example, TCO has worked extensively  
with MontazhSpetsStroy JSC (MSS), a 100 percent  
Kazakhstani-owned and -operated engineering,  
procurement and construction company, to upgrade the 
firm’s health, environment and safety practices to  
meet TCO’s standards. As a result of that effort, MSS  
recently won a second contract with TCO and is on track to 
further build its safety capabilities and skills. In 2015,  
TCO spent $2.4 billion on goods and services that qualify  
as local content, which represents 51 percent of  
TCO’s total goods and services spend in Kazakhstan.

benefits in Australia*
Chevron’s development of the Gorgon and  
Wheatstone natural gas projects, together with other  
activities in Australia, are delivering significant  
direct and indirect economic benefits to the Australian 
economy. From 2009 through 2014, nearly  
19,000 workers were directly employed, and close to  
1,000 contracts were awarded to Australian  
companies. Over the period of 2009 through 2040,  
more than AU$1 trillion is expected to be added  
to Australia’s GDP—nearly AU$32 billion per year.

 * *Results for Indonesia are based on a 2014 study commissioned by Chevron and conducted by the Institute for Economic and Social Research, the University of Indonesia, 
and the research firm IHS. Results for Australia are based on a 2015 study commissioned by Chevron and conducted by ACIL Allen Consulting. The economic forecast is 
based on an indicative estimate for the period of 2009 through 2040 as of January 2015.

chevron.com/cr
21

$233 million+
in global social  
investments in 2015

Above: Teachers participate in a training-of-trainers event in  
preparation for the launch of an extracurricular life-skills program 
for youth in Atyrau, Kazakhstan, as part of the Atyrau Youth 
Development Initiative.

Facing page: Students at a Chevron Enjoy Science Project family 
camp in Bangkok, Thailand, experience the connection between  
science and everyday life through hands-on activities related  
to science, technology, engineering and math.

social investment

Our large-scale social investments focus on education, 
health and improving access to economic development 
opportunities in the areas where we operate. These  
investments aim to foster economic stability and improve 
the quality of life in the communities where we work.

Education 
We champion science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) education and help provide career and technical 
training that can lead directly to well-paying jobs. Through 
our programs and strategic partnerships, we help both 
students and teachers get the tools and resources they need 
for success. For example, we partner with the California 
State University system and support its STEM Teacher and 
Researcher (STAR) Program. The STAR Program engages 
aspiring and early-career teachers in cutting-edge research 
projects, primarily at national laboratories, and helps them 
translate their research experience into classroom practice.

Health 
Chevron invests in programs aimed at improving access  
to health care. Working with partners, we support initiatives 
that build local capacity and deliver real and lasting gains 
in the fight against devastating diseases. 2015 marked the 
third year of Chevron’s partnership with the international 
NGO Pact to help prevent mother-to-child transmission of 
HIV/AIDS in Bayelsa State, Nigeria. At the end of three years, 
the project has achieved impressive results by helping to 
educate close to 300,000 people about HIV prevention and 
testing more than 53,000 pregnant women for HIV.

Economic development
We make social investments in programs that promote self- 
sufficiency, job growth and economic development. We start 
by working closely with communities and our partners to 
assess local needs, and we then take action to help remove 
barriers to economic growth.

chevron humankind

Chevron Humankind is a giving  
and volunteer program that supports U.S.  
employees and retirees in their efforts  
to help the causes they care about. In 2015,
15,500+ 
employees and retirees contributed
329,000+ 
volunteer hours to
2,500+ 
charitable organizations in  
the United States. In addition,
$20 million+ 
was contributed by Chevron employees  
and retirees to U.S. nonprofits,  
which Chevron matched, for
a total of $41 million

chevron.com/cr
22

Global partnership initiatives
We work with local governments, NGOs and community 
leaders to create long-term programs that address critical 
education, health and economic development needs in  
communities across the globe. These programs strengthen 
local economies by providing microloan services, enterprise 
and workforce development training, and resources and 
tools to improve health services and education. By leverag-
ing our partners’ resources and expertise, we can help drive 
scalable and sustainable impact in these communities.

united nations  
sustainable  
development goals

In September 2015, the United Nations General 
Assembly adopted 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), which will frame countries’  
development agendas through 2030. Governments 
around the world are preparing to implement  
the SDGs, and business will play a role in the 
achievement of the goals. Chevron demonstrates 
its commitment to sustainable development 
by safely and reliably producing and delivering 
affordable energy, protecting people and the  
environment, and investing in communities’ health, 
education and economic development. Many of 
our business and corporate responsibility activities 
support the SDGs, particularly the following: 

 Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote  
well-being for all at all ages. 

Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning  
opportunities for all.

Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable,  
sustainable and modern energy for all. 

Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and  
sustainable economic growth, full and productive 
employment, and decent work for all. 

Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable 
use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse 
land degradation, and halt biodiversity loss.

 Goal 17: Strengthen means of implementation  
and revitalize the global partnership for sustain-
able development.

Thailand partnership initiative 
In 2015, Chevron Thailand announced a $30 million  
commitment to create the Thailand Partnership Initiative 
(TPI), known locally as the Chevron Enjoy Science  
Project, a five-year program to strengthen Thailand’s  
competitiveness by improving STEM  
and vocational education across the country. 

Over the next five years, the TPI will work in partnership 
with leading NGOs, academia, key government  
organizations in science and education, and the private  
sector to increase the quality of science and  
math teaching in Thailand, establish 18 training hubs  
nationwide, and promote the study of  
science, technology, engineering and math. 

community engagement in Nigeria
In 2005, Chevron and joint venture partner the  
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation  
(NNPC) pioneered the global memorandum of  
understanding (GMoU) as a new approach  
to community engagement in the Niger Delta. 

Designed to create participatory development  
processes that manage conflict and address community 
needs near Chevron’s areas of operations, the  
GMoU has empowered more than 500,000 people  
across 400 communities. In collaboration with  
NGOs and state and local governments, eight Regional 
Development Committees were created to represent  
communities’ interests across five states.

Over the past 10 years, the NNPC/Chevron  
joint venture has spent more than $100 million on  
roughly 600 development projects and  
programs in health, education, economic development  
and local capacity building. These activities  
focus on education (40,000 scholarships), agriculture, 
medical facilities and supplies, schools, water,  
housing, bridges, jetties, drains, and roads.

chevron.com/cr
23

performance data

These tables include our quantitative  
environmental, safety and social performance data.  
For complete reporting, including  
performance data, visit chevron.com/reporting.

Environmental performance¹

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Petroleum spills to land and water (volume in barrels)2, 3 

Total volume recovered

Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills)2, 3

Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)4

Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters)4

10,169

6,071

180

93

1,703

1,212

146

88

2,135

1,378

133

93

838

396

79

85

Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)4

31

35

37

41

Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water (parts per million)5

Upstream

Refining and other oil and gas processing

Total equity greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)6, 7, 8
By source:6, 7

Combustion 
Flaring9
Venting9

Other

By sector:6, 7

Upstream

Downstream and chemicals

Midstream and other

Direct (Scope 1) equity GHG emissions  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)6, 7

Indirect (Scope 2) equity GHG emissions  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)6, 7

Equity methane (CH4) emissions  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent)6, 7

9

2

60

66.2%

16.9%

4.7%

12.2%

56.7%

38.5%

4.8%

62

4

5

10

4

57

67.5%

15.6%

3.9%

13.0%

58.0%

37.7%

4.3%

58

5

4

10

2

57

67.8%

13.2%

4.2%

14.8%

57.4%

38.4%

4.2%

57

5

5

9

1

56

66.5%

11.3%

4.7%

17.5%

56.5%

39.3%

4.2%

56

4

5

778

636

62

78

77

43

11

1

57

68.0%

11.3%

4.1%

16.6%

56.4%

39.8%

3.8%

58

4

4

GHG emissions from third-party use of our products  
(million metric tons of CO2)10

396

364

363

358

366

footnotes are on page 28

chevron.com/cr
24

Environmental performance,¹ continued

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Upstream equity GHG emissions intensity (metric tons of CO2-
equivalent per 1,000 barrels of net oil-equivalent production)6, 7

Downstream equity GHG emissions intensity (metric tons of  
CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of crude oil refinery feed)6, 7

Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated 
joint venture refineries (trillion BTUs)

Total energy consumption for operated assets

Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated 
joint venture refineries (million gigajoules)

Total energy consumption for operated assets

Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted  
(thousand metric tons)11

Upstream

Refining1

Midstream and other

Total sulfur oxides (SOX) emitted (thousand metric tons)11

Upstream

Refining1

Midstream and other

Total nitrogen oxides (NOX) emitted (thousand metric tons)11

Upstream

Refining1

Midstream and other

Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons)12

Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons)12

Hazardous waste recycled (million metric tons)12

Number of environmental, health and safety fines paid  
and settlements entered into13

35

37

900

720

950

760

276

87.8%

4.5%

7.7%

154

80.7%

8.7%

10.6%

133

68.1%

6.0%

25.9%

0.5

1.0

0.5

35

37

870

690

918

728

159

83.2%

6.4%

10.4%

123

81.5%

6.4%

12.1%

146

76.5%

4.7%

18.8%

0.5

0.9

0.4

34

39

881

697

929

735

147

84.6%

6.1%

9.3%

141

83.7%

6.0%

10.3%

147

78.2%

4.6%

17.2%

0.8

0.9

0.1

34

38

879

702

927

741

134

85.5%

6.2%

8.3%

112

81.8%

6.3%

11.9%

138

77.8%

5.6%

16.6%

0.8

1.0

0.1

33

37

830

675

875

713

142

80.5%

9.2%

10.3%

83

62.4%

8.8%

28.8%

149

62.9%

4.6%

32.5%

0.3

0.5

0.2

268

339

284

292

135

Local content and supply chain management

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Total goods and services spend (billions of dollars)

$41 

$52

$59

$63

$54

Total goods and services spend with U.S.-based small  
businesses (billions of dollars)

Goods and services spend with U.S.-based woman- and  
minority-owned small businesses (billions of dollars)

$2.2

$2.6

$2.8

$2.6

$2.3

$0.78

$0.88

$0.99

$0.96

$0.79

chevron.com/cr
25

footnotes are on page 28

Health and safety performance

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Total Recordable Incident Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)14

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

0.24

0.39

0.23

0.33

0.24

0.42

0.24

0.38

0.20

0.31

0.25

0.42

0.21

0.35

0.15

0.29

0.23

0.38

Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours)14

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Days Away From Work Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)14

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Number of work-related fatalities

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

0.20

0.43

0.31

0.42

0.16

0.43

0.038

0.083

0.061

0.083

0.030

0.082

5

1

4

0.15

0.41

0.13

0.39

0.16

0.42

0.027

0.075

0.024

0.075

0.027

0.074

8

1

7

0.13

0.38

0.14

0.42

0.12

0.36

0.020

0.072

0.026

0.083

0.018

0.067

16

2

14

Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)14

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Contractors

0.99

1.02

0.80

1.05

1.48

1.47

0.76

1.71

2.71

1.83

1.44

3.11

0.18

0.33

0.10

0.28

0.21

0.36

0.11

0.36

0.06

0.39

0.12

0.35

0.020

0.070

0.010

0.067

0.023

0.077

3

0

3

0.49

0.78

0.00

0.64

0.18

N/A

0.10

N/A

0.20

N/A

0.10

N/A

0.09

N/A

0.10

N/A

0.018

N/A

0.019

N/A

0.018

N/A

3

0

3

0.51

N/A

0.00

0.67

Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with 
employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)

0.40

1.11

0.85

0.49

0.51

Motor Vehicle Crash Rate  
(workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven)15

Number of process safety Tier 1 events  
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance)16

Upstream

Downstream and chemicals

Midstream

0.07

0.07

0.04

0.04

0.02

90

55

30

5

76

58

15

3

38

24

10

4

19

15

3

1

29

18

10

1

footnotes are on page 28

chevron.com/cr
26

Global employee diversity

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Number of regular employees at year-end

57,376

58,286

61,345

61,456

58,178

Number of service station employees at year-end

3,813

3,656

3,205

3,259

3,316

Number of U.S. employees at year-end

26,525

27,471

28,974

28,666

26,448

Percent U.S. employees represented by unions

11.2

10.4

10.4

9.6

10.0

Percent women in total workforce 

23.4

23.8

24.3

24.7

24.3

Percent women represented at mid-level and above

12.4

12.5

13.4

14.2

14.1

Percent women and non-Caucasian men represented at  
senior executive levels

27.5

26.9

29.7

30.6

31.3

Percent employees working in their home country

91

92

93

Percent workforce in North America

45.5

45.8

46.2

45.8

44.9

Percent workforce in Asia-Pacific

28.4

28.1

28.4

29.3

28.9

Percent workforce in Africa

13.8

13.5

13.1

12.8

13.2

Percent workforce in Europe/Middle East

Percent workforce in South America

6.3

 4

6.4

4.1

6.4

3.9

6

3.9

7.0

3.9

U.S. equal employment opportunity  
commission statistics

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Percent minorities among total employees

35.9

36.2

35.9

36.3

37.0

Percent women among total employees

29.3

29.7

29.3

29.7

29.9

Percent minorities among executives and senior managers

11.6

11.1

12.1

11.6

13.1

Percent minorities among first- and mid-level managers

27.7

27.9

27.4

28.6

29.5

Percent women among executives and senior managers

16.3

15.9

16.4

16.3

17.0

Percent women among first- and mid-level managers

27.4

28.1

27.5

28.8

28.3

Percent minorities among professionals (women and men)

31.8

32.3

33

33.9

34.5

Percent women among professionals

32.2

32

31.8

32.3

32.5

chevron.com/cr
27

footnotes are on page 28

 
 
notes to pages 24 through 26

  1 This section reflects data collected as of 

April 15, 2016.

  2 Chevron reports petroleum spills to land 
and water to conform to the 2015 IPIECA 
Reporting Guidance. Spills to land and 
water that are greater than or equal to one 
barrel are included. Spills to secondary con- 
tainment and chemical spills are excluded.

  3 In addition, Chevron reports “spills of 

significance.” For purposes of conforming 
to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, 
Chevron defines a spill of significance as  
a process safety Tier 1 loss-of-primary- 
containment (LOPC) event (as defined by 
American National Standards Institute/
American Petroleum Institute [ANSI/API]
Recommended Practice [RP] 754) with 
a consequence of a release of material 
greater than the threshold quantities 
described in Table 1 of ANSI/API RP 754 in 
any one-hour period. Refer to footnote 16 
for the definition of an LOPC event. Spills 
to secondary containment, regardless of 
actual environmental impact, are included, 
as are chemical spills.

 In 2015, Chevron experienced 13 spills of 
significance. Twelve of those spills ranged 
in size from 7 barrels to 217 barrels. The 
other spill was 49,000 barrels of gasoline 
blend stock to secondary containment at 
our Pascagoula Refinery. Response actions 
followed the emergency response plans 
that are specific to the site where each  
spill occurred.

  4 Fresh water withdrawn totals decreased  
in 2015 (relative to prior years) due to 
refinements made in the data reporting.  
In 2015, Chevron began reporting fresh 
water consumed to conform to the 2015 
IPIECA Reporting Guidance. Produced 
water is excluded from fresh water with-
drawn, fresh water consumed and nonfresh 
water withdrawn.

  5 Oil concentration is determined by the 

sampling of effluent streams.

 Chevron reports the total cumulative 
amount of oil discharged to surface 
water excluding spills, which are reported 
separately. In 2015, Chevron’s operated 
upstream facilities recorded a cumulative 
discharge of 1,276 metric tons of oil to 
surface water, and our operated refining 
and other oil and gas processing facilities 
recorded a cumulative discharge of  
42 metric tons of oil to surface water.

  6 The World Resources Institute/World 
Business Council for Sustainable 
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: 
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard defines three “scopes” that 
Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. 
Scope 1 includes direct emissions from 
sources within a facility. Scope 2 includes 
indirect emissions from electricity and 
steam that Chevron imports. Scope 3 

includes all other indirect emissions. 
Chevron reports information related to  
two types of Scope 3 emissions: emission 
credits from electricity and steam that 
Chevron exports to third parties and emis-
sions from third-party use of our products.

  7 The GHG performance data that reference 
this footnote were calculated by add- 
ing direct (Scope 1) emissions to indirect 
(Scope 2) emissions and subtracting  
indirect (Scope 3) emissions (e.g., credits) 
from electricity and steam that Chevron 
exports. Direct GHG emissions related to 
production of energy in the form of elec-
tricity or steam exported or sold to a third 
party have been included in the reported 
Scope 1 emissions to conform to the  
2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance.

 All six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide (CO2), 
methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur 
hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydro-
fluorocarbons—are included in Chevron’s 
Scope 1 emissions. CO2, CH4 and N2O are 
accounted for in Chevron’s Scope 2 emis-
sions and in Chevron’s Scope 3 emissions 
related to the electricity and steam that 
Chevron exports to third parties.

  8 In 2015, emissions were 57 million metric 
tons of CO2-equivalent. Chevron’s chosen 
base-year emissions in 2010, which account 
for adjustments like acquisitions and  
divestitures, would have been 56 million 
metric tons. Therefore, Chevron’s 2015 
emissions are higher than the base year.

  9 In 2015, facilities under Chevron’s opera-
tional control generated an average  
flare gas volume of 551 million standard 
cubic feet per day and an average venting 
volume of 41 million standard cubic feet 
per day.

 10 Chevron calculated emissions from third-
party use of our products by multiplying 
total 2015 upstream liquids and gas  
production by emissions factors from  
API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and 
Natural Gas Industry (2004, 2009).

 11 VOC emissions increased in our refining 
sector (relative to prior years), primarily 
due to an incident that occurred at  
our Pascagoula Refinery. This incident  
was counted as one of the 13 spills of  
significance discussed in footnote 3.

 SOX emissions decreased in our upstream 
sector primarily due to the shut-in of  
production at facilities in the Partitioned 
Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

 VOC, SOX and NOX emissions increased  
in our midstream and other sector because 
we began reporting emissions from time- 
chartered vessels and from shipping of 
liquefied natural gas.

 For compiling and reporting air emissions  
data, Chevron follows regulatory definitions  

chevron.com/cr
28

of VOC. SOX emissions include SO2 and 
SO3, reported as SO2-equivalent. NOX  
emissions include NO and NO2 (reported  
as NO2-equivalent) and exclude N2O.

 12 Corrections were made to the amounts of 
hazardous waste generated and disposed 
of by our IndoAsia Business Unit that 
resulted in a decrease in the total hazard-
ous waste generated and disposed of by 
Chevron in 2015.

 To conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting 
Guidance, our hazardous waste numbers 
exclude all remediation waste generated, 
disposed of and recycled by Chevron’s 
Environmental Management Company.

 Waste amounts are quantified using 
methods required or recommended by 
regulatory agencies or authorities where 
applicable. In other instances, similar 
methods are used, including direct meas- 
urement onsite or at the point of shipping, 
engineering estimates, and process 
knowledge.

 Chevron follows the regulatory definitions 
of hazardous waste applicable to the juris-
dictions within which we operate, including 
de minimis specifications (below which 
hazardous waste quantities do not need to 
be reported).

 13 2015 environmental, health and safety fines 
paid and settlements entered into were 
$3.9 million. Health and safety fines paid 
and settlements entered into accounted for 
$353,820, representing 9.0 percent of the  
total fines paid and settlements entered 
into. Some prior years’ fines paid and set-
tlements entered into are restated in this 
report due to corrections that were made 
to the reporting dates for these data.

 14 Health and safety performance rates include  
both injury- and illness-related incidents.

 API’s Benchmarking Survey of Occupa-
tional Injuries, Illnesses and Fatalities  
in the Petroleum Industry data are used  
as industry benchmarks. Benchmark data 
on competitor-average performance  
for 2015 were not available at the time  
of publication.

 15 Data include catastrophic and major  

incidents only.

 16 LOPC incidents are unplanned or uncon-

trolled releases resulting in consequences 
equivalent to those specified by ANSI/
API RP 754 and International Oil & Gas 
Producers (IOGP) Report 456: Process 
Safety Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IPIECA/API/IOGP content index

This index refers to the IPIECA/API/IOGP*  
sector-specific reporting guidance for the oil and  
gas industry. For 2015, Chevron reported on  
all 34 indicators included in the third edition of  
the guidance. An expanded IPIECA/API/IOGP  
index is available at chevron.com/IPIECA.

Topic

IPIECA/API/IOGP

Page/s

Website

Reporting overview

A message from our chairman and CEO

Issue prioritization process

Performance data 

Assurance statement and About this report

Health and safety issues and indicators

Safety management

Workforce protection

Product health, safety and environmental risks 

Process safety and asset integrity

HS1  HS2  HS3

HS4

HS5

Environmental issues and indicators

Environmental management

1

3

24–28 

30, 32

8–9

10–11, 26

chevron.com/reporting

chevron.com/OE

chevron.com/healthsafety

chevron.com/healthsafety

9, 11, 26

chevron.com/healthsafety

8–9, 14–15

chevron.com/OE 
chevron.com/environment

Climate change and energy

E1  E2  E3  E4

16–17, 24–25, 28

chevron.com/climatechange

Biodiversity and ecosystem services

Water

E5

E6  E7

chevron.com/biodiversity

18–19, 24, 28

chevron.com/water

Local environmental impacts

E8  E9  E10  E11

24–25, 28

chevron.com/environment 
chevron.com/EMC

Social issues and indicators

Community and society

SE1  SE4

20–23

chevron.com/creatingprosperity

Human rights

Local content

SE2  SE3  SE8  SE9  SE10

6–7

chevron.com/humanrights

SE5  SE6  SE7

20–21, 25

chevron.com/creatingprosperity

Business ethics and transparency

Labor practices

SE11  SE12  SE13  SE14

SE15  SE16  SE17  SE18

4–5

5

chevron.com/ethicsgovernance

chevron.com/diversity
chevron.com/BCEC

 *IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues)/American Petroleum Institute/International Association of Oil & Gas Producers.

chevron.com/cr
29

LRQA Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate  
Responsibility Report for the Calendar Year 2015

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in  
accordance with our contract, but is intended for the readers of this Report. 

Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by  
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide 
independent assurance on its processes used in the creation of the  
Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for calendar year 2015 to a reason-
able level using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:

•   Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health,  
environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.

•   Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP Oil and gas industry 

guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) industry guidelines.

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data 
and information reported in the CRR.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LRQA disclaims any liability 
or responsibility to others, as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s 
management was responsible for preparing the CRR and for maintaining 
effective internal controls over the reporting processes and the CRR. LRQA’s 
responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting 
processes in accordance with our contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the CRR 
has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Chevron.

LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting processes 
were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for assessing 
corporate performance and reporting information consistent with common 
reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP Oil and gas industry guidance  
on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of  
assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the Verifier.

LRQA’s Approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our  
verification procedure;* the following tasks, though, were undertaken as part 
of the evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement:

•   Visiting Chevron Corporation in San Ramon, California, to review data 

collection and checking processes.

•   Conducting remote reviews of Chevron upstream and Chevron 

downstream and chemicals to assess business-unit understanding and 
implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•   Visiting two Chevron upstream operations, in Nigeria and the San Joaquin 
Valley Business Unit in the United States, and one Chevron downstream 
facility, the Pascagoula (MS) Refinery, to assess local understanding and 
implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•    Interviewing key personnel, including key persons responsible for  

drafting the CRR, to identify and gain an understanding of Chevron’s 
reporting requirements.

•   Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate 

consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of 
the HES performance indicators.

•   Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the 

reporting processes.

•  Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP Oil and gas industry 

guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015).

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, 
are as follows:

•   Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to HES metrics 

understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.

•   Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly 

defined and communicated.

•   Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood  

and carried out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels 
were checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics.

•   Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 

was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.

•  Chevron conducted a more in-depth issue prioritization review that 

included both internal and external stakeholder comments to Chevron.

Recommendations 
Additional areas for improvement were provided in a separate report to 
Chevron Management. These recommendations do not affect our opinion.

LRQA’s Competence and Independence
 LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on 
their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification 
and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior manage-
ment to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.

LRQA is Chevron’s certification body for ISO 9001, TS 16949 and Emission 
Trading Schemes (ISO 14064). The certification assessments and verification 
are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron and as such do not 
compromise our independence or impartiality.

Andrea M. Bockrath
LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
April 14, 2016

LRQA Reference: UQA4000679

 *LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practice and uses  
the principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness  
and Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE 3000.

 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective 
officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd's Register.” Lloyd's Register assumes no respon-
sibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document 
or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or 
advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

 The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 

 This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

 Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2016. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.

chevron.com/cr
chevron.com/cr
30
30

 
2015 corporate responsibility  
reporting glossary

API American Petroleum Institute.

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of  
life on the planet. It encompasses genera, 
species, habitats and ecosystems and  
the processes that support them.

Biofuel Any fuel that is derived from 
biomass—recently living organisms or their 
metabolic byproducts—from sources such 
as farming, forestry, and biodegradable 
industrial and municipal waste.

Capacity building A key area of focus for 
Chevron’s social investment efforts, which 
means targeting support toward programs 
that help individuals and institutions  
develop the skills, capabilities and expertise 
they need to succeed.

Center for Chemical Process Safety A non-
profit corporate membership organization 
within the American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers that identifies and addresses 
process safety needs within the chemical, 
pharmaceutical and petroleum industries.

The Chevron Way Explains our values:  
who we are, what we do, what we believe 
and what we plan to accomplish.

Corporate responsibility Putting The 
Chevron Way values into action across envi- 
ronmental, social and governance issues 
and priorities.

Downstream The industry term for 
operations related to refining crude oil 
into finished petroleum products and for 
marketing crude oil and the many products 
derived from petroleum.

Energy efficiency Using less energy to 
provide the same service.

ESHIA Chevron’s Environmental, Social 
and Health Impact Assessment is a process 
designed to logically and consistently iden-
tify potentially significant project-related 
environmental, social and health impacts.

Flaring and venting The burning or release 
of natural gas that is often produced in 
association with crude oil, a process that 
typically occurs when there is no market or 
onsite use for the gas.

Geothermal energy A renewable source 
of energy that uses the heat energy of the 
earth for heating or to create electricity.

Globally Harmonized System of 
Classification and Labelling of Chemicals 
(GHS) A system for standardizing and 
harmonizing the classification and labeling 
of chemicals.

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap 
heat in the atmosphere; such gases include 
water vapor, ozone, carbon dioxide, meth-
ane, nitrous oxides, hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride.

IOGP International Association of Oil &  
Gas Producers.

IPIECA The global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social 
issues.

ISO 14001:2004 Environmental  
management system standard developed 
by the International Organization for 
Standardization.

Nongovernmental organization (NGO)  
An organization that is independent from 
government, generally a nonprofit organi- 
zation devoted to advancing or providing 
assistance to a particular cause or issue.

OHSAS 18001:2007 An international 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment 
Series management system specification.

Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS) Chevron’s standard 
approach to systematic management of 
safety, health, the environment, reliability 
and efficiency in order to achieve world-
class performance.

Renewable energy Energy resources  
that are not depleted when consumed or 
converted into other forms of energy  
(for example, solar, geothermal, ocean and 
tide, wind, hydroelectric, and biofuels).

Revenue transparency Refers to the 
practice of disclosing certain financial 
arrangements related to energy  
industry operations by industry and  
host governments.

Social investment The resources Chevron 
provides with the objectives of benefiting 
our external stakeholders and of building 
and maintaining relationships to support 
our business.

Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as 
those who affect, are affected by or have 
a legitimate interest in our Company’s 
performance.

Upstream The industry term for operations 
related to exploring for, developing and 
producing crude oil and natural gas; for 
marketing natural gas; and for transporting 
crude oil, natural gas and petroleum  
products by pipeline and marine vessel.

partner

In Chevron’s corporate responsibility reporting, “partner” is used in its broad sense  
to mean a person or organization associated with another in a common activity or  
one in which they share a mutual interest. It does not imply a member of a contractual 
partnership in which the partners jointly own and carry on a business and proportion-
ally share in liabilities, profits or losses of the business.

Right: Chevron’s partnership with Pact and the PROMOT Project in Bayelsa State, Nigeria, 
has established a sustainable, community-based and government-supported outreach 
program to help prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS. Learn more about our 
health partnerships at chevron.com/health.

chevron.com/cr
31

about this report

This report covers 2015 data and activities. We also  
occasionally mention activities that took place before  
2015 and in early 2016 when they help provide a  
clearer picture of our performance. This report covers  
our owned and our operated businesses and does not 
address the performance of our suppliers, contractors  
and partners unless otherwise noted. All financial  
information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise 
noted. Our previous report was published in May 2015  
and covers 2014 data and activities.

We continue to be informed by reporting frameworks  
and guidelines that include the Oil and gas industry  
guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting, third  
edition, published in 2015 by IPIECA (the global oil and  
gas industry association for environmental and social  
issues), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the 
International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP).  
An index to help readers find information corresponding  
to IPIECA/API/IOGP indicators can be found on page 29  
of this report and at chevron.com/IPIECA.

This report, previous editions of our report and addi-
tional information can be found at chevron.com/cr.  
We welcome your comments and feedback.

Dr. Marcy McCullaugh and  
Ms. Patricia Allison
Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road  
Building G
San Ramon, CA 94583

our complete reporting  
on environmental,  
social and governance  
indicators can be found at  
chevron.com/reporting

cautionary statement relevant to  
forward-looking information 

This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron 
Corporation contains forward-looking statements relat- 
ing to the manner in which Chevron intends to conduct 
certain of its activities, based on management’s current 
plans and expectations. These statements are not 
promises or guarantees of future conduct or policy and 
are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, 
many of which are beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including 
the development, implementation or continuation of any 
program, policy or initiative discussed or forecast in this 
report, may differ materially in the future. The statements 
of intention in this report speak only as of the date of 
this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly 
update any statements in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such  
terms as “the Company,” “the corporation,” “their,” “our,” 
“its,” “we” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s 
consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them 
taken as a whole. All these terms are used for conven- 
ience only and are not intended as a precise description 
of any of the separate entities, each of which manages  
its own affairs.

chevron.com/cr
32

awards and recognition

corporate responsibility
American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers’ Distinguished Safety Award— 
Platinum, Chevron El Segundo (CA) Refinery, 2015 

Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 Best Corporate Citizens

Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America

Louisiana Wildlife Federation Business Conservationist of the Year Award

Newsweek Green Rankings

S&P 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index

Society for International Development Leadership in Development

workforce
No. 1, Business Insider 25 Best Energy Companies to Work For in America

Catalyst Award 2015

The Economist Global Diversity List Top 10 LGBT Employee Networks

Glassdoor Best Places to Work 2016

Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index 100 Percent 2015

select memberships and associations

American Bar Association’s Center for Human Rights’ Project  
on Business & Human Rights

American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers

American Petroleum Institute

Business for Social Responsibility

Business Roundtable

Center for Strategic and International Studies

Center for Sustainable Shale Development

Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative

International Association of Oil & Gas Producers

International Bar Association Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for  
environmental and social issues

National Association of Manufacturers

United States Chamber of Commerce

Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights

Western States Petroleum Association

Editor and writer Marcy McCullaugh Production manager Patricia Allison  
Photography advisors Catherine Ronan and Mollie Corcoran Copy editor Joan D. Saunders 

Photo credits Cover: Edgar Trujillo, 1: Eric Myer, 2: Izturgan Aldauev, 6: Jenny Owens, 8 and 18: Marc Marriott, 10: Denis Forkin, 13: Tina Toriello,  
14: Aji Wihardandi, 20: Olufemi Olukaydae, 22: Erzhan Nurpeisov, 23: Thachchawech Maneewong, 31: courtesy of Pact

learn more  chevron.com/publications

2015 
annual report

2015 
supplement to the 
annual report

2015  
corporate responsibility  
report highlights

2015 Annual Report

2015 Supplement to the Annual Report

2015 Corporate Responsibility Report

chevron.com/reporting

Scan this QR code with your smartphone to access Chevron’s  
2015 Corporate Responsibility Report and performance information.

QR readers are available from your phone’s app store.

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council®–certified  
Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-consumer waste.  
It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are  
expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel, New York

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

© 2016 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386M (5-16) (5M)

