Developing 
Partnerships

2008 Corporate Responsibility Report

Welcome

Corporate responsibility is a journey. Its path is marked with challenges and opportunities 
that through dialogue and partnership can be leveraged for common benefit and greater 
understanding. Through this report, we hope to convey to you how conducting our  business 
responsibly, delivering energy and creating sustainable partnerships are at the core of 
Chevron’s values.

Energy is the foundation of global growth and prosperity. For billions of people, access to 
energy is the first and vital step out of poverty. To help meet current and future demand, we 
strive to find and produce energy safely and with respect for the environment. While billions 
of people do not have access to energy, millions of people could use energy more efficiently. 
This year, we engaged the American public on an issue of utmost importance to our com-
pany — energy efficiency. For years, we have been improving our own efficiency — 28 percent 
since 1992. This year, we asked U.S. energy consumers to say “I Will” to taking concrete 
actions to reduce their energy consumption. We also do our part. Chevron’s Action Plan on 
Climate Change has guided our emissions reduction projects, efficiency improvements and 
research investments.

Chevron does more than provide energy. Our partnerships touch millions of lives and set the 
stage for human advancement by addressing basic human needs, education and economic 
development. Our approach to community development in the Niger Delta gradually shifts the 
ownership of community development programs we fund to the communities themselves. As 
the first Corporate Champion of The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, we are 
working to help control and eradicate these diseases in six countries with high incidence rates.

In 2008, we expanded and deepened our engagement with governments, nongovernmental 
organizations, thought leaders, stockholders and multilateral institutions. On topics spanning 
human rights, economic development, governance and climate change, we shared our views 
and listened to many stakeholders and experts.

For Chevron, corporate responsibility is more than just an objective. Built on The Chevron Way, 
it is central to everything we are and is embedded in everything we do. Thank you for joining 
us on this journey.

Partnering for Education 

Nigeria

At Chevron, we believe that education opens minds, creates opportunities 
and provides the skills required to compete in a global economy. Chevron and 
the Discovery Channel Global Education Partnership collaborated to form 
55 Learning Centers in four countries, including Nigeria, where J.O. Balogun 
(on the cover) and her students study plant growth at the Ikota Primary School 
in Lagos. The schools in Nigeria all experienced increased enrollment, and 
parents report that student enthusiasm grew, which is demonstrated in their 
group reading exercises in the photo at right.

   Meet some of the students:

Chevron.com/LearningCenters

In This Report

  Introduction

  2  A Message From Our CEO
  3  The Chevron Way
  4  Chevron at a Glance
  5  Governance and Ethics
  6  Priorities, Progress and Plans
  8  Stakeholder Engagement
 11  Executive Interview

  Energy and Environment

 12   Introduction
 14  Climate Change
 19  Renewable Energy
 22  Environmental Management

  Socioeconomic

 26  Introduction
 28  Community Engagement
 34  Workforce
 39  Supply Chain
 41  Human Rights

  Resources

 43  GRI and API/IPIECA Index
 44  About This Report 

  Assurance Statement
  Glossary

 
 
 
 
 
 
A Message From Our CEO
Results the Right Way

The world is changing, but our values 
are not.

Around the globe, economies are searching 
for solid ground, and people are reevaluat-
ing their faith in institutions. Against these 
currents, The Chevron Way is our anchor.

Through good times and bad, The Chevron 
Way principles guide what we do and how 
we do it. Ask one of our nearly 62,000 
employees to summarize The Chevron Way 
in a sentence, and he or she will likely say, 
“It’s about getting results the right way.”

Principles are put to the test in tough times. 
As the economic downturn grips communi-
ties where we operate, we will be steadfast. 
We plan to continue investing in those com-
munities to help create jobs, support local 
suppliers and strengthen economies — all 
things the world needs now.

We make these community investments 
through partnerships — one of our core 
strengths. Our partnerships bring together 
business, community groups, government 
and nongovernmental organizations with 
one common goal: to produce sustainable 
results. To fund these partnerships, we 

2

Dave O’Reilly, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer

increased our community investments in 
2008 and plan on sustaining that level 
in 2009.

We focus our community partnerships 
in three areas because we believe these 
are the most likely avenues for creating 
lasting benefits. These areas are basic 
human needs, education and economic 
development.

Examples are many — here are some of 
our proudest.

•  Global Fund: We’re the first Corporate 
Champion of The Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria — a 
public-private partnership created by 
the United Nations to eradicate these 
diseases. Our $30 million  commitment 
funds programs in six countries belea-
guered by these diseases, and our more 
than 700 health care staff support 
in-country implementation.

•  Education: Since 2003, we have part-

nered with the Discovery Channel Global 
Education Partnership to support 55 
Learning Centers in Angola, Venezuela, 
South Africa and Nigeria. In Indonesia 

last year, we opened a polytechnic 
institute in tsunami-ravaged Banda 
Aceh through our partnership with 
government, nongovernmental organiza-
tions and the United States Agency for 
International Development. Along with 
our Riau polytechnic, which we opened 
in 2001, these institutes provide job 
training and livelihoods to thousands.

•  NovoBanco: In 2004, Chevron and 

partners launched this microlending 
bank to spur entrepreneurship among 
Angola’s low-income households. The 
bank has been extremely successful: it 
has expanded to three branches, with 
plans for 11 more; serves more than 
31,000 customers; and, last year, made 
more than $10 million in loans.

Inside Chevron, getting results the right 
way means never sacrificing safety. To 
reach our aspiration of zero accidents, 
we’re creating a behavior-based safety 
culture that’s crowned by this tenet: when 
a behavior looks unsafe, employees and 
contractors alike know they have stop-
work authority. This basic tenet helped 
make 2008 the safest year in our history 
and one of the best in our industry.

Getting results the right way also means 
responding to other challenges — from natural 
disasters, to economic and social instability, 
to global climate change.

Responding to climate change is a long-term 
process. Seven years ago, we implemented our 
comprehensive Action Plan on Climate Change, 
which focuses on reducing emissions, improv-
ing efficiency, investing in research, pursuing 
business opportunities, and promoting flexible 
and economically sound policies that protect 
the environment. As part of the action plan, 
we set annual greenhouse gas emissions goals. 
I am pleased to report we have met those 
goals every year since 2004.

I’m also pleased that we’re ranked No. 1 among 
U.S.-based oil and gas companies, and No. 2 
worldwide, in the 2008 Carbon Disclosure 
Leadership Index. Compiled by the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, the index highlights compa-
nies taking “best in class” actions to measure 
and report carbon emissions. It is the third 
time in four years that we have been included.

These are priorities we work on every day. At 
the same time, we keep our eyes on the horizon. 
That’s where long-term needs reside. That’s 
where growth will take hold. And when it does, 
the world will need all the energy it can get.

Finding and producing that energy requires 
large capital investments. Most of our 2009 
capital budget of $22.8 billion — equal to what 
we spent in 2008 — funds the development 
of large energy projects. These projects are 
designed to increase energy supplies, effi-
ciency and reliability for decades to come.

That’s money well spent, because energy is a 
prerequisite for economic growth. By invest-
ing in future supplies, we’re investing in future 
prosperity.

This year, Chevron celebrates its 130th year 
in operation. That’s a rare achievement. It 
has been accomplished by generations of 
Chevron people, focusing their considerable 
talents as much on skilled performance as on 
sustained partnership.

That’s 130 years of getting results the right way.

Dave O’Reilly
May 2009

The Chevron Way

At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision . . . to be the global 
energy company most admired for its people, partnership and 
performance. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, 
partnership, protecting people and the environment, and high 
performance. To read more about The Chevron Way, please visit 
Chevron.com/ChevronWay.

Our Approach to 
Corporate Responsibility 

Corporate responsibility at Chevron is the application of The 
Chevron Way across environmental, social and governance issues 
and priorities. We implement our corporate responsibility priorities 
through existing management systems, processes and policies 
as part of our commitment to operate responsibly and ethically. 
We aim to continuously improve our performance and practices 
throughout the corporation.

Corporate responsibility is built on our values, which guide our 
actions. We conduct our business in a socially responsible and 
 ethical manner. We respect the law, support universal human 
rights, protect the environment and benefit the communities 
where we work.

How We Chose What to 
Include in This Report

Chevron’s seventh annual Corporate Responsibility Report provides 
descriptions, data and perspectives on our socioeconomic and 
environmental performance for 2008. The report reflects our efforts 
toward conducting our business in a safe, socially responsible and 
ethical manner.

The content included in our report was selected because of 
its  significance to our business values and objectives and its 
importance to our stake holders. Our ongoing engagement with 
employees and external stakeholders — including communities, 
nongovernmental organizations and investors — helped define 
the issues and priorities for the report.

3

Chevron at a Glance

Chevron is one of the world’s leading 
 integrated energy companies, with sub-
sidiaries that conduct business around 
the world. We explore for, produce and 
transport crude oil and natural gas; refine, 
market and distribute transportation fuels 
and other energy products; manufacture 
and sell petrochemical products; generate 
power and produce geothermal energy; 
provide energy efficiency solutions; and 
develop and commercialize the energy 
resources of the future, including biofuels 
and other renewables.

Our Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS) integrates safety, health, 
environmental, reliability and efficiency 
objectives throughout the corporation. 
Operational Excellence holds company 
leaders accountable for achieving 

results in the right way by behaving in 
accordance with our values. More than 
2,400 employees completed Operational 
Excellence (OE) training and certification 
in 2008, bringing the year-end total to 
11,700. Also by year-end, 16,500  employees 
had completed the OE Leadership Roles 
and Behaviors session. In 2008, Chevron 
received attestation from Lloyd’s Register 
Quality Assurance that OEMS meets 
all requirements of the International 
Standards Organization’s 14001 environ-
mental management system standard 
and the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series management specifica-
tion 18001 and that OEMS is implemented 
throughout the corporation. These stand-
ards are international benchmarks and 
demonstrate Chevron’s commitment to 
world-class performance.

We conduct business to the highest 
ethical standards and in compliance with 
the letter and spirit of all applicable laws 
in the countries where we operate. Our 
Business Conduct and Ethics Code (BC&E 
Code) communicates to our employees 
the values that guide our actions and 
decision making worldwide.

We require that employees read and 
abide by the BC&E Code. In 2008, an 
updated BC&E Code, which included 
Chevron’s Human Rights Statement, was 
deployed in 14 languages. All employees 
are required to acknowledge reading 
the code and completing the computer-
based training.

•  Women’s Business Enterprise National 

Council’s Top Corporations, for the sixth 
consecutive year (U.S.).

•  Mississippi Governor’s Cup Top Big Business 
2008 Award for community involvement and 
economic impact in the state (U.S.).

Photo: Chevron’s Richmond, California, 
refinery improved its overall energy  efficiency 
in 2008. As part of the 100-Day Energy 
Blitz, employees identified ways to reduce 
fired steam demand by 17 percent compared 
with 2007, avoiding 90,000 metric tons of 
greenhouse gas emissions and achieving its 
best-ever Energy Intensity Index rating.

Performance Recognition
A sampling of 2008 awards and recognition

Social Responsibility

The Environment

•  World Petroleum Council Excellence Award 

•  Carbon Disclosure Project’s Leadership Index.

•  Indonesian Ministry of the Environment’s 
PROPER Green Award for environmental 
performance, for the third consecutive year.

•  Collaborative for High Performance Schools’ 
Green Apple Award in the Climate Change 
category (U.S.).

Economic Development

•  Indonesian Ministry of Energy and 

Mineral Resources’ Padma Community 
Development Award.

•  CWC Group’s NOG (Nigeria Oil and Gas 
Conference) Excellence in Nigerian 
Content Award.

•  The government of Kazakhstan’s Foreign 
Investors’ Council Award for Best Investor 
in two categories: Long-Term and Stable 
Investment, and Contribution to Kazakhstan’s 
Investment Image Enhancement.

•  Kazakhstan’s Altyn Zhurek (Golden Heart) 
Award for local business development.

for Social Responsibility.

•  Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North 
America, for the fourth consecutive year.

•  Woodrow Wilson Award for Corporate Citizen-

ship to Chairman and CEO Dave O’Reilly.

•  El Salvador Department of Transport’s Award 

for Road Safety.

•  Kazakhstan Ministry of Education and 

Science’s Gold Medal for Patron of Education.

•  Thailand Ministry of Culture’s Khon Dee, 

Kid Dee, Sangkom Dee Award for outstanding 
social programs.

•  Human Rights Campaign Foundation 

Corporate Equality Index’s 100 percent rating, 
for the fourth consecutive year.

•  GovernanceMetrics International’s highest 
global rating of 10.0, the top 1 percent, 
for “‘best in class’ corporate governance 
standards.”

•  Philippines Quill Award for Excellence for 

Chevron’s Community Impact Review process.

•  InterAction (American Council for 

Voluntary International Action) Certificate 
of Appreciation for Chevron’s contribution 
to fighting global poverty through innovative 
partnerships.

4

Governance and Ethics
Conducting Business the Chevron Way

Corporate Governance
We believe that good corporate governance is a cornerstone 
of strong business performance. 

Chevron’s commitment to good governance 
is demonstrated in many ways. All of our 
directors stand for election each year, 13 
of 15 are nonemployees and independent, 
and we have a lead independent director. 
Since 2004, we have elected seven new 
directors. Stockholders have the right to 
call for special meetings and recommend 
director candidates to the board. The board 
will reconsider any stockholder proposal 
that receives a majority of votes cast at the 
annual meeting. And we adopted a policy 
of obtaining stockholder approval of any 
stockholder rights plan.

Chevron strives to be transparent with and 
responsive to our stockholders while man-
aging the company for long-term success. 
We communicate with our stockholders 
through reports, press releases and other 
formats. We meet frequently with stock-
holders to discuss governance, financial, 
environmental, social and policy issues. For 
example, in 2008 we met with stockholders 

Below: The Chevron-operated Northwest 
Swan, which transports liquefied natural 
gas from Western Australia, uses gas from 
its own cargo as its primary fuel. Chevron 
Shipping Co. improved its reliability in 
2008 over the previous year, demonstrated 
by fleet availability of 99.54 percent.

to discuss our presence in Myanmar and 
Nigeria, our record of support for inter-
national human rights, our environmental 
record and commitment to alternative 
energy sources, our board structure and 
processes, and our director and executive 
compensation practices.

Stockholders can submit inquiries to the 
Board of Directors and proposals for inclu-
sion in our proxy statement. In the past 
five years, we worked with proponents of 
51 stockholder proposals submitted for 
inclusion in our proxy statement, result-
ing in the agreed-upon withdrawal of 11 of 
those proposals. During the 2009 proxy 
season, we received eight stockholder 
proposals covering a range of topics, 
including greenhouse gas emissions, coun-
try selection guidelines and human rights. 
One of these proposals was withdrawn 
after dialogue with the proponents. More 
information can be found at Chevron.com/
Investors/CorporateGovernance.

Lobbying
Chevron has a right and responsibility to 
advocate positions on proposed policies 
that will have an impact on the company’s 
ability to meet growing demand for energy. 
We lobby ethically, constructively and in a 
bipartisan manner through direct com-
munication with public officials. We also 
encourage our employees, stockholders 
and others to communicate with officials 
where permitted by law. Chevron complies 
with all registration and reporting regula-
tions related to our lobbying activities.

Chevron is actively engaging the admin-
istration of U.S. President Obama and the 
U.S. Congress to provide perspective on 
the complexity of energy issues affecting 
the United States and the world. In 2008, 
our outreach to the president included 
recommendations on policy matters 
regarding the economy, energy, climate 
change, international issues, education, 
and research and development. The goal is 
to help shape an effective and responsible 
U.S. energy policy. The recommendations 
include promoting energy efficiency and 

expanding and diversifying the country’s 
energy portfolio. To view “Strengthening 
America’s Energy Pillar: Recommendations 
for President-Elect Obama,” please visit 
Chevron.com/ObamaLetter. 

Business Ethics
Chevron takes seriously the conduct of 
its employees and requires question-
able conduct to be reported. This may 
include, for example, violations of com-
pany policy or of the Chevron Business 
Conduct and Ethics Code. One reporting 
method is the Chevron Hotline, which is 
operated offsite by Global Compliance 
Services (AlertLine®), an independent 
agent. In 2008, AlertLine® received 555 
reports, compared with 391 in 2007 and 
262 in 2006. The largest percentage of 
reports applied to two categories: people-
 management issues (63 percent) and 
financial and internal controls (17 percent). 

On Chevron.com, you can find additional 
information about avenues in which 
employees report misconduct and a 
description of how we administer over-
sight of our compliance program.

Political Contributions
Chevron has strict policies and internal 
approval processes so that decision making 
and reporting on political contributions 
comply with the letter and spirit of all 
applicable laws. Contributions in 2008 
were $4,358,256 to support candidates 
and political organizations that foster eco-
nomic development, free enterprise and 
good governance. Totals include contribu-
tions to support our views on local and 
state ballot measures.

Chevron employees, through the Chevron 
Employees Political Action Committee 
(CEPAC), contributed $711,270 in the 
2007–2008 election cycle to the election 
of candidates from both parties for U.S. 
federal office, as well as to local and state 
candidates in certain U.S. jurisdictions. 
By policy, CEPAC does not contribute to 
presidential candidates or national politi-
cal parties.

A list of federal contributions made by 
CEPAC is on the U.S. Federal Election 
Commission Web site. Corporate political 
contributions made during the previous 
year are on Chevron.com.

5

Priorities, Progress and Plans

Page

Priority Area

What We Said We Would Do in 2008

4 Continuous Integration 
of Corporate Responsibility 
Into Our Business

8 Stakeholder 
Engagement

• 

• 
• 

• 

Continue with Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 
implementation across the company.
Deploy corporate standard Compliance Assurance process.
Sustain rollout of Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) 
for new projects, including stakeholder and community engagement components.
Roll out updated Business Conduct and Ethics (BC&E) Code to our employees.

• 
• 

• 

Continue to engage the public in discussion on energy issues.
Undertake stakeholder engagement activities to progress corporate responsibility 
(CR) approach and reporting.
Engage Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance for ongoing third-party verification 
(page 44).

14 Climate Change, 
Renewables and 
Energy Efficiency

• 

• 

• 

Continue operational activities to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 
increase energy efficiency.
Continue to pursue strategic research alliances on renewable energy 
technologies, including development of cellulosic ethanol.
Extend engagement with state, federal and international officials on policies and 
regulations related to GHG emissions reduction mandates.

22

Environmental 
Management

28 Community 
Engagement

34 Global Strategic 

Workforce Development, 
Including Health and 
Safety

41

Human Rights

6

• 

• 

• 
• 

Deploy global audit program and continue training to implement corporate 
Third-Party Waste Stewardship process.
Continue to implement ESHIA process and include biodiversity assessments in 
new projects.
Continue collection and analysis of environmental data to evaluate performance.
Continue OEMS alignment with leading industry standards and integrate OEMS 
environmental performance objectives and guidance into operations.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Increase support and resources devoted to capacity building and economic 
development.
Continue working with Regional Development Councils (RDCs) in the Niger Delta 
to execute development plans.
Move forward on second phase of Angola Partnership Initiative with funds 
committed through 2012.
Leverage partnerships and invest $30 million over three years to assist The 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

Continue to provide new employment across our operations.
Continue to implement global partnership programs to attract and hire talented 
people.
Further implement our retention strategies and develop our employees’ 
capabilities.
Maintain our focus on structured leadership development programs for our 
supervisors, managers and senior leaders.
Sustain commitment to reduce all incidents to zero.
Continue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy and collaborating with stakeholders 
on health initiatives for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
Continue to address road safety.
Host sixth annual Operational Excellence (OE) Forum.
Expand implementation of cardiovascular program companywide over the next 
three years.
Deploy corporate standard Occupational Hygiene process.

• 

Deploy updated BC&E Code and continue training on Human Rights Statement.

What We Did in 2008

• 

• 
• 
• 

Received attestation from Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance that OEMS meets all requirements of ISO 14001 
and OHSAS 18001 and is implemented throughout Chevron.  ▲
Applied ESHIA to more than 450 capital projects worldwide. 
▲
Deployed the updated BC&E Code in 14 languages to all employees. 
Spent approximately $2.9 billion on goods and services provided by small businesses in the United States, 
$515 million with minority-owned businesses and $450 million with women-owned businesses.  ◆

▲

Provided in-depth recommendations to then President-elect Obama and the U.S. Congress on energy, 
the environment and the economy.  ▲
Unveiled the “I Will” advertising campaign on energy conservation and efficiency. 
Served as a member of the Philippines Renewable Energy Coalition and partner in America’s Energy Coast initiative. 
Senior executives discussed energy issues with experts from think tanks, multilateral institutions and 
nongovernmental organizations.  ▲
Participated in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, 
and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association working groups.  ◆
Shared Chevron’s approach to community development with The World Bank Institute, the International Finance 
Corp., the Business Civic Leadership Center and the Japan Institute for International Cooperation.  ▲
Engaged Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance for verification of data reporting processes. 

◆

▲

What We Plan to Do Next

• 

• 

Implement ESHIA for all major upstream 
capital projects worldwide.
Deploy best-practices guide for using 
local suppliers.

▲

• 

• 

• 

Promote the recommendations made 
to then President-elect Obama and the 
U.S. Congress on energy, the environment 
and the economy.
Continue to promote consumer energy 
efficiency at WillYouJoinUs.com and 
educate and engage people on global 
energy issues.
Improve collaboration with stakeholder 
groups in areas key to Chevron’s business 
objectives.

▲

Performed better than our 2008 goal in GHG emissions. 
Reduced GHG emissions from flaring and venting from 14.6 million to 13.6 million metric tons. 
Decreased our own energy consumption per unit of output 28 percent since 1992. 
Completed our first LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold-certified green building project in 
Covington, Louisiana.  ▲
Partnered with universities and research institutions on different projects related to energy efficiency, GHG emissions 
reduction, carbon capture, geologic sequestration strategies and applications, and cellulosic (nonfood-crop) biofuels.  ◆
Formed Catchlight Energy LLC, Chevron’s joint venture with Weyerhaeuser Co., on a demonstration-scale, 
advanced cellulosic biofuel production process.  ▲
Engaged with state, federal and international officials on GHG emissions policies. 

◆

▲

▲

• 

• 

• 

Continue to reduce flaring and venting 
in our operations where feasible.
Advance the “I Will” campaign to continue 
to reinforce energy conservation and 
efficiency.
Work to LEED-certify some facilities in 
Texas and California.

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

Met all goals in “What We Said We Would Do in 2008.” 
▲
Implemented ESHIA in Lawachara, Bangladesh, to ensure that wildlife and vegetation were not adversely affected 
by preliminary exploration activities.  ▲
Increased volume of petroleum spills to the environment. 
Began assessing water consumption and potential water treatment and reuse technologies at all of our refineries. 
Expanded the number of environmental metrics reported corporatewide. 
▲
◆
Benchmarked OEMS against International Finance Corporation standards. 

▼

▲

• 
• 

• 

Begin reporting total waste metrics. 
Develop a reporting protocol, to roll out 
in 2010, for total water use.
Continue OEMS alignment with industry 
standards to achieve performance 
objectives and improve operations.

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Invested $160 million in community engagement initiatives, with most targeted to basic needs, education and training, 
and the support of small to medium-size businesses.  ▲
Launched the Chevron Humankind employee community involvement and contributions program for U.S.-based 
employees and retirees.  ▲
Expanded Discovery Channel Global Education Partnership to South Africa, Nigeria and Brazil. 
Welcomed the inaugural class of the Chevron-supported Politeknik Aceh in Indonesia. 
Contributed to disaster relief efforts in Myanmar, China, the Caribbean, Central America, and on the U.S. Gulf Coast. 
Completed assessments and development plans with RDCs in the Niger Delta. Conducted an evaluation of the 
Global Memoranda of Understanding program.  ▲
Commenced second phase of the Angola Partnership Initiative. 
Provided initial investment as part of $30 million for Global Fund grants in Indonesia, Thailand, Angola, South Africa, 
Nigeria and the Philippines, and launched programs in South Africa and the Philippines.  ▲

◆

▲

▲

▲

Met all goals in “What We Said We Would Do in 2008.” 
▲
Increased slightly, from 24.5 to 24.8, the percentage of women and non-Caucasian men at the senior executive 
level worldwide.  ◆
Increased percentage of women at midlevel positions and above worldwide from 10.6 percent in 2007 to 
11.5 percent.  ▲
Hired 53.5 percent of employees from outside the United States compared with 30 percent in 1999. 
Launched Pathways career development program to expand employees’ technical and professional skills. 
While we remained committed to zero incidents, with five fatalities in 2008, we did not meet our goal of zero 
workforce fatalities. ▼
Had our lowest recorded Days Away From Work Rate of 0.05 per 200,000 hours. 
Conducted programs to improve road safety, conducted a motor vehicle incident study, established Chevron Global 
Road Safety Week, and created Arrive Alive programs in El Salvador and Bangladesh.  ▲
Adding in 4,592 people in 2008, a total of 23,467 people, including 8,116 managers and supervisors, have completed 
HIV/AIDS policy training since its launch.  ▲
Implemented employee cardiovascular health pilot programs in Nigeria, the Philippines and the United States. 

◆

▲

▲

▲

• 

• 

• 

Develop programs, working with local 
communities, to promote human progress 
and economic development.
Continue negotiating successor 
agreements with RDCs in the Niger Delta.
Launch Global Fund partnership 
programs in Nigeria, Indonesia, Angola 
and Thailand.

• 

• 

• 

• 

Roll out cardiovascular health benefits 
program companywide.
Sustain commitment to reduce all 
incidents to zero.
Develop and pilot a computer-based 
and instructor-led employee training 
on tuberculosis.
Strengthen our commitment to 
Operational Discipline (“every task done 
the right way every time”).

Updated BC&E Code to incorporate our Human Rights Statement. 
Released the Company Guidelines on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 
Conducted workshop for our Global Security advisors, with sessions on emerging security and human rights issues. 
◆
Submitted an annual report on our implementation of the Voluntary Principles to the Secretariat. 
Participated as a member of a Voluntary Principles subcommittee for drafting reporting guidelines. 

◆

▲

▲

▲

• 

• 

Continue global promotion of the 
Voluntary Principles.
Continue to deploy internally the 
Company Guidelines on the Voluntary 
Principles.

▲  Area of performance improvement     ◆  Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline    ▼  Area of performance decline

7

Stakeholder Engagement
Striving to Be the Partner of Choice

Community engagement, Bangladesh

Workforce development, Angola

Teacher training, United States

At Chevron, we understand that the most important challenges 
facing the global community today are complex and that the best 
hope of finding lasting solutions is through dialogue, collabora-
tion and partnership. When these challenges touch our business, 
we act to share our insights based on decades of on-the-ground 
experience, and we openly inform our stakeholders of our views 
and the actions we are taking to address these challenges.

We value outreach and dialogue as a 
means to understand stakeholder views 
and concerns, gain insight into emerging 
trends, improve our policies and processes, 
and foster collaborative relationships on 
issues of mutual concern. In 2008, we 
increased and deepened our engagement 
with a wide range of stakeholders on 
socioeconomic and environmental issues. 
We intend to increase the regularity of 
stakeholder engagement activities and 
further formalize our feedback efforts 
during 2009. 

  Engaging With Governments

Chevron technical experts continue to 
participate in the processes of the Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate Change, 
which has begun work on a two-year 
program to assess the status of renew-
able energy resources worldwide and their 
projected impact on global  climate change. 
Members of our staff have also been 
appointed to participate on the National 
Academy of Sciences’ steering commit-
tee and in reviews of the nation’s research 
programs in the atmospheric  sciences 
and climate change. 

8

In the United States, Chevron provided 
expert advice to regulatory agencies to sup-
port implementation of California’s Global 
Warming Solutions Act and the Low-Carbon 
Fuel Standard, as these climate change 
measures could have wide-ranging effects 
on the state’s economy and businesses that 
contribute to economic growth. Chevron 
also is a member of industry coalitions and 
has ongoing dialogue with environmental 
groups in California and other jurisdictions. 

In the Philippines, Chevron is a leading 
member of the Renewable Energy Coalition, 
a multisectoral partnership comprising 
government agencies, local and foreign 
companies, and nongovernmental organiza-
tions, including Greenpeace and the World 
Wildlife Fund. The coalition supports public 
policies that encourage the development 
of indigenous sources of energy, such as 
geothermal, to make the country more 
energy self-sufficient. Through the coali-
tion’s efforts, the Renewable Energy Bill 
was enacted by the president at the end of 
2008. The new law will accelerate invest-
ment in and development of renewable 
energy resources in the Philippines. 

  Engaging With Stockholders

We communicate with our stockholders 
through Chevron.com, reports, meetings 
and press releases. In 2008, we met with 
stockholders and investment advisory 
firms to discuss climate change; envi-
ronmental  performance; human rights; 
societal issues in Myanmar, Nigeria and 
Ecuador; and other topics. We met with 
investors from, among others, TIAA-CREF, 
F&C Asset Management plc, the California 
State Teachers’ Retirement System and 
FTSE4Good Index Series, and with insti-
tutional investors from the Netherlands, 
Norway and Sweden.

  Engaging With Communities

Chevron’s Environmental, Social and Health 
Impact Assessment (ESHIA) establishes 
a process for conducting stakeholder 
engagement in a focused, comprehensive 
and participatory manner. By the end of 
2008, ESHIA was being applied to more 
than 450 capital projects worldwide. The 
goal of ESHIA is to establish and maintain 
dialogue with stakeholders throughout 
the lifetime of a project, to solicit views 
and ideas to improve benefits or mitigate 
potential adverse impacts, and to consider 
stakeholder input in our assessments 
and planning.

For example, using the ESHIA process, the 
Angola LNG (liquefied natural gas) project 
engaged with stakeholders through all 
phases of development. Between 2004 
and 2007, Angola LNG held more than 
100 consultations and workshops with 
a wide range of stakeholders to provide 

Planting mangroves, 
Songkhla Lake, Thailand

project information and seek the views of 
community representatives on issues and 
potential solutions. Stakeholder meet-
ings were held to discuss ongoing work 
activities, and a straightforward griev-
ance process was implemented for people 
living and working in the surrounding 
communities. A radio program (both in 
Portuguese and Kisorongo, a local dialect) 
and an information center in Soyo facilitate 
ongoing communication by providing ways 
for people to obtain information about the 
Angola LNG project. 

At our refinery in El Segundo, California, 
we created the Community Advisory Panel, 
which enables residents and community 
leaders to understand the operations of 
the refinery and provides a venue for 
citizens to share their concerns. The 15- to 
20-member panel meets regularly, hold-
ing information forums led by company 
members or community experts on such 
concerns as the environment, safety and 
emergency preparedness. Panel members 
serve as refinery liaisons in their neigh-
borhoods, sharing information with the 
community and advising the refinery on 
ways to improve communication. Our Cape 
Town, South Africa, and Pembroke, United 
Kingdom, refineries have similar groups. 

Some of the Stakeholder Stories in This Report

Governments

Australia, Canada, Philippines, United States

Stockholders

Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom, United States

Communities

Angola, Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Haiti, India, 
Indonesia, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Myanmar, Nigeria, Philippines, South Africa, Swaziland, 
Thailand, Turks and Caicos Islands, United Kingdom, United States, Venezuela

Employees

Australia, China, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Philippines, Tanzania, United States, Venezuela

Customers

European Union, Indonesia, Philippines, United States

Suppliers

Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, United States

Civil Society

Australia, Bangladesh, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nigeria, South Africa, Uganda, United States

teleconference with our chairman and 
other company leaders.

In Venezuela, Chevron employees held a 
town hall meeting as part of an educational 
campaign to commemorate Global Road 
Safety Week. Speakers reinforced the 
importance of being alert and responsible 
while driving.

Our newest employee network, Boola 
Moort, represents Australia’s indigenous 
people. The network’s name, in the local 
Nyoongar language, means “many people.” 
The network’s vision and objectives include 
attracting, developing and retaining indig-
enous talent and supporting our Australasia 
business unit’s constructive relationship 
with the indigenous communities near 
its operations.

This includes energy efficiency and con-
servation — the easiest, cheapest and most 
reliable forms of “new” energy available. 
Energy efficiency also helps to moderate 
demand for carbon-intensive fuels, reduce 
energy costs and preserve finite natural 
resources. At WillYouJoinUs.com, we invite 
discussion and provide practical tools to pro-
mote energy literacy and encourage action. 

  Engaging With Suppliers

In early October 2008, more than 80 local 
and international suppliers attended a two-
day forum in Atyrau, Kazakhstan, hosted 
by Tengizchevroil LLP, in which Chevron is 
a 50 percent partner, and Karachaganak 
Petroleum Operating B.V., in which Chevron 
has a 20 percent nonoperating interest. 
The forum was designed to develop and 
improve the quality of Kazakhstan’s oil 
and gas–related goods and services. At the 
forum, new suppliers met with interna-
tional counterparts to learn about business 
opportunities, bidding and the standards 
that our suppliers are expected to meet. 
Tengizchevroil spent more than $2.5 billion 
on Kazakhstani goods and services in the 
past two years.

9

  Engaging With Employees

  Engaging With Customers 

Enterprisewide, we use a diverse range 
of methods to engage with employees 
globally, including employee networks, 
regular town hall meetings, email and 
intranet communications, and publications. 
Each year, we hold a global employee 

In September 2008, we launched a new 
phase of our Human Energy™ campaign in 
the United States. Called “I Will,” the cam-
paign focuses on energy conservation and 
efficiency. We believe the key to our energy 
future is to develop all forms of energy. 

In 2008, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. entered a 
second three-year partnership with the 
Lagos Business School to provide courses 
in supply contract management that target 
local entrepreneurs. The program develops 
the skills and competencies of Nigerian 
contractors to enable them to capture new 
business opportunities.

  Engaging With Nongovernmental 

Organizations (NGOs)
Chevron is a partner in the America’s 
Energy Coast initiative, which draws on 
expertise from industry, environmental 
NGOs, academia, and policymakers to 
make recommendations on ensuring the 
sustainability of coastal communities in the 
Gulf Coast region. Top priorities for action 
include recommended policies and prac-
tices that address critical economic, social 
and environmental issues and promote 
responsible development of U.S. oil and gas 
energy while affording protection to this 
critical coastal area. For more information, 
visit AmericasEnergyCoast.org. 

In June, we organized an external-insights 
meeting at Chevron’s headquarters 
with representatives from Business for 
Social Responsibility, Harvard University, 
International Finance Corp. and other 
thought leaders in corporate social 
responsibility. The meeting provided us 
with a candid view of emerging social 
issues, trends, and drivers germane to our 
operations. Our leadership was informed 
of external trends related to corporate 
responsibility as well as opportunities to 
improve our engagement on social issues.

We worked with industry and NGO partners 
in the creation of an online database of 
biodiversity information. Launched in the 
fall of 2008, the Integrated Biodiversity 
Assessment Tool was developed to help 
businesses be proactive about address-
ing biodiversity concerns from the outset 
of project planning. Chevron, industry 
and NGO partners — including Conserva-
tion International, the U.N. Environment 
Programme’s World Conservation Moni-
toring Centre, the International Union 
for Conservation of Nature, and BirdLife 
International — collaborated on developing 
an interface that allows seamless access 
to their combined data, as if the data were 
from a single repository. For more informa-
tion, visit BiodiversityInfo.org/ibat.

10

Longtime Partner in California

Since our founding in California in 1879 
as the Pacific Coast Oil Co., we have been 
committed to building a stronger future 
here. Today, as an integrated, global, high-
tech energy company headquartered in 
San Ramon, we have a significant posi-
tive impact on the state’s economy and 
its people. A study sponsored by Chevron 
and conducted by the Milken Institute, 
a publicly supported, nonpartisan think 
tank, shows Chevron’s importance as an 
economic contributor to the state. Accord-
ing to “Energizing California: Mapping 
Chevron’s Economic Impacts in the Golden 
State,” Chevron in 2007 employed nearly 
10,000 workers and indirectly supported 
nearly 59,000 jobs statewide, or almost 1 in 
250 jobs in California. The company contrib-
uted $4.5 billion directly and an additional 
$4.7 billion indirectly in economic activity, 
for a total of $9.2 billion in total economic 
output. Overall, Chevron is responsible for 
about 20 percent of the oil and natural gas 
industry–sector output in the state. 

The report states that “Chevron is a pillar 
of California’s economy, with an outsized 
impact on job, wealth and output creation 
well beyond the energy industry.”

Chevron has major business centers in 
the San Francisco Bay Area, San Joaquin 
Valley and Los Angeles Basin. We are the 
largest producer of crude oil in California. 
Through innovation and partnerships, we 
promote energy literacy, energy efficiency 
and the use of all forms of energy to create 
a more secure energy future.

With the University of California at Davis 
(UC Davis), we are working on advanced 
research aimed at converting nonfood 
resources of biomass into transportation 
fuels. Also, we endowed the Chevron 
Chair in Energy Efficiency to lead the 
UC Davis Energy Efficiency Center, which 
is studying the commercialization of 
new energy technologies. 

In 2008, several Chevron initiatives in 
California focused on education. For 
example, we participated in a STEM 
(science, technology, engineering and 
math) Roundtable with the Bill & Melinda 
Gates Foundation. 

To read the Milken Institute study, see 
MilkenInstitute.org/Publications. 

The front cover of a 1959 Standard Chevron magazine features 
a modern Standard  service station in Vacaville, California.

Executive Interview
The Energy Efficiency Business Model

Jim Davis
President
Chevron Energy Solutions Co.

Why does an oil and gas company 
sell energy efficiency?
Meeting the growth in global energy 
demand requires all forms of energy, 
including efficiency. The good news is that 
the potential for efficiency is great. The 
International Energy Agency estimates 
that globally, using measures feasible 
today, we could improve the energy effi-
ciency of buildings by 50 percent. At 
Chevron, we recognize that we have a 
significant role to play in meeting the 
world’s energy needs in a sustainable, 
environmentally beneficial way. This is 
one of the world’s greatest challenges, 
and to meet it, we need to maximize 
energy conservation — the cheapest and 
most plentiful source of new energy.

Chevron Energy Solutions Co. (CES) makes 
Chevron unique among international oil 
companies. CES is an expert at combining 
energy efficiency with renewable supply 
solutions. Being a part of Chevron provides 
a synergy: while Chevron invests in emerg-
ing energy technologies, CES can apply the 
proven technologies that our clients will 
benefit from for decades. As new technolo-
gies become proven, we will deploy them 
to our customers.

How does CES make money?
CES has been a profitable business 
since 2003 and is growing by more 
than 20 percent annually. We have about 
400 employees right now and are bringing 
onboard roughly 50 employees per year. 
Our staff primarily consists of mechani-
cal, electrical and architectural engineers, 
project managers, and construction 
managers.

In the public sector, we look at opportuni-
ties to reduce our clients’ energy demand 
first, then consider onsite energy supplies 
such as solar power. It makes no sense to 
install solar panels on a building that is not 
using energy efficiently. 

Our projects generally start with an energy 
audit. We then work with our clients to 
implement the recommendations from the 
audits. Often this involves a performance 
contract, by which Chevron implements the 

efficiency measures and onsite generation 
at little or no upfront cost to the client and 
guarantees a certain level of energy sav-
ings. The actual cost savings from reduced 
utility bills are credited against the project 
costs over time, and at the end of the 
contract term, the client retains all of the 
cost savings. In other words, our projects 
provide an economic, low-risk way for our 
clients to improve their energy efficiency 
while reducing their costs and impact on 
the environment.

In addition to avoided utility costs, our 
products offer price certainty and energy 
security, which are important to public 
institutions. By providing energy cost 
predictability, lowering energy demand and 
developing onsite generation, we are help-
ing our clients plan for their energy needs 
for many years into the future.

Who are your customers?
Our largest customer is Chevron, where we 
work with refineries, offices and oil field 
operations to deploy efficiency measures 
and onsite generation, including solar 
power and fuel cells.

For the U.S. federal government, we 
develop and build central utility plants 
and introduce renewable energy and 
efficiency solutions. In the public sec-
tor, we work with city, county and state 
governments, improving administration, 
wastewater treatment and correctional 
facilities. And we help schools, colleges and 
universities take advantage of government 
funding available for onsite generation 
and efficiency.

In Pennsylvania, we helped the Central 
Dauphin School District upgrade four build-
ings comprising more than half a million 
square feet (46,500 sq m) with lighting 
and mechanical retrofits, an emergency 
generator and water conservation improve-
ments. We worked closely with the district 
not only on the design and construction 
but on operator training, monitoring and 
verification. Over our 15-year performance 
contract with the district, we are guar-
anteeing more than $275,000 in annual 
energy and operational savings.

What do you see for CES in 2009?
We believe there is huge potential for our 
business and the economic and environ-
mental benefits it provides. Our projects 
and partnerships with our clients are 
long term. While maintaining our current 
relationships, we will work hard to earn 
new business and continue our growth 
trajectory. In December, we were awarded 
a master Energy Saving Performance 
Contract from the U.S. Department of 
Energy to work with federal agencies to 
reduce energy and water consumption and 
increase the use of renewable energy at 
agency facilities. This contract provides a 
significant opportunity for us to expand 
our efficiency work with federal agencies 
in 2009 and beyond.

Editor’s note: Fast Company included 
Chevron Energy Solutions in its Top 
50 list of “the world’s most innovative 
companies” (March 2009). According to 
the magazine, the 50 companies illustrate 
“the power and potential of innovative 
ideas and creative execution.”

11

Energy and Environment
Building a Sustainable Energy Future

Growing and diversifying our sources of energy 
are essential to helping meet the world’s demand 
in a sustainable, environmentally sound way. 
The section that follows details our efforts to 
develop energy with respect for the environment 
through partnerships, integration of world-class 
environmental practices throughout our operations, 
and investments in innovation and technology 
development.

United States

Growing New Sources of Energy 

Catchlight Energy LLC, Chevron’s joint venture with Weyerhaeuser Co., is a 
research and development partnership to transform cellulosic biomass into 
biofuels, with a focus on commercial-scale production. Cellulosic biomass is 
made from renewable sources of forest and agricultural residuals instead 
of from such crops as corn, sugar cane and soybeans. Weyerhaeuser senior 
research forester Wilson Edwards, in the photo at right, is pursuing ways to 
grow this nonfood biomass in the spaces between trees on Weyerhaeuser’s 
managed forestlands in the United States.

12

In This Section

 14  Climate Change
 19  Renewable Energy
 22  Environmental Management

Climate Change
More Energy, Smaller Footprint

The global demand for energy will increase in the coming 
decades, and this rising demand presents significant oppor-
tunities for our industry. As demand increases, however, the 
complexities of global climate change also pose serious 
questions for the energy industry and the broader society. 
At Chevron, we are working to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and expand our energy supply portfolio to meet 
the demands of customers for affordable, reliable and lower-
impact supplies of energy.

Our multifaceted response to climate 
change involves seeking ways to reduce 
GHGs from the use of fossil fuels, expanding 
the use of alternative fuels and renewables, 
and improving energy efficiency.

Climate Change and Chevron’s Response
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change states in its Fourth Assessment 
Report that most of the observed increase 
in global average temperatures since the 
mid-20th century is very likely due to man-
made GHGs. Chevron is working to be part 
of the solution to the energy and climate 
challenge facing the world. Near-term miti-
gation actions, development of advanced 
energy technologies for the long term, 
and adaptation to the potential impacts 
of climate change are needed to meet 
the challenge.

Below: Chevron’s Richmond Refinery in 
California is the most energy efficient of all 
Chevron-operated refineries.

14

Our Action Plan on Climate Change
Now in its seventh year of implementa-
tion, Chevron’s Action Plan on Climate 
Change continues to guide our activities, 
including emissions reduction, efficiency 
improvements, research investments, 
business opportunities and advocacy 
positions. While we continued to grow 
our business, our total GHG emissions 
remained relatively flat due to the efforts 
that follow.

In 2008, our total emissions were 59.6 mil-
lion metric tons, which is better than our 
goal of 62.5 million metric tons.1 Our pre-
liminary goal for 2009 is 60.5 million 
metric tons, slightly higher than 2008’s 
actual emissions. This goal accounts 
for emissions growth from new major 
capital projects and emissions reductions 
from anticipated declining production 
from maturing fields, continued energy 
efficiency in our operations, and contin-
ued reduction in flaring and venting. We 
estimate that combustion of our products 
resulted in emissions of approximately 
382 million metric tons of carbon dioxide 
in 20082 — about 5 percent less than the 
404 million metric tons in 2007. When 
compared with the International Energy 
Agency’s Key World Energy Statistics (2008 
edition), these emissions represent approxi-
mately 1.4 percent of global CO2 emissions 
from fossil fuels. Our GHG emissions inten-
sity in 2008 was approximately 37 metric 
tons of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels 
of net oil-equivalent production from our 
upstream operations and 36 metric tons of 
CO2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels of crude 
oil that was input into our refineries.

Reducing Emissions
Flaring  Routine flaring and venting of 
the natural gas associated with crude oil 
extraction are a significant source of our 

Climate Engagement

In 2008, principal advisor Arthur Lee 
became a Chevron Fellow, one of 
25 technical professionals considered 
experts in their field. Lee is an expert 
in carbon capture and storage and has 
participated in industry workshops and 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change’s (IPCC) Fourth Assessment 
Report. He also served as a review edi-
tor of IPCC’s Special Report on Carbon 
Dioxide Capture and Storage.

Arthur Lee
Principal Advisor for Climate Change
Chevron Corporation

 Learn about carbon capture:
Chevron.com/ClimateChange

total corporate GHG emissions. We remain 
committed in our efforts to reduce routine 
flaring and venting in our operations. Since 
2003, we have reduced emissions from 
flaring and venting by about 15 percent on 
an equity basis, and we continue to work 
aggressively to reduce routine flaring and 
venting in our operations wherever techni-
cally and commercially feasible.

Chevron’s flaring reduction standard is 
aligned with the World Bank–led Global 
Gas Flaring Reduction voluntary initia-
tive, a public-private partnership that is 
active in several developing countries 
where we operate. While we have made 
significant progress in reducing routine 
flaring and venting from our operations, 
we face many challenges, including local 
security, approval delays, partner fund-
ing, competing government investment 
priorities, materials availability and the lack 

 
GHG Emissions by Source 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

  Combustion 

  Flaring and venting 

  Other

GHG Emissions by Sector 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

  Upstream 

  Downstream 

  Other

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:48)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:42)

(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:39)

(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:43)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:43)(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:39)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:42)(cid:46)(cid:37)(cid:48)

(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:42)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:41)(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:41)

Total GHG Emissions by Type 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Energy Efficiency Performance
Percentage improvement since 1992 baseline

Direct3 
63.0 
63.8 
65.4 
62.3 
62.2 

Indirect3 
—2.2 
—2.9 
—3.0 
—2.7 
—2.4 

Grid 
Credits3 
—1.2 
—0.5 
—0.9 
—0.7 
—0.5 

Net
59.6
60.4
61.5
58.8
59.4

2008 
2007 
2006 
2005 
2004 

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:41)

(cid:39)

See pages 16 and 17 for more information.

(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:46)

(cid:42)(cid:45)(cid:37)(cid:39)

(cid:42)(cid:46)(cid:37)(cid:40)

(cid:42)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:43)

1   Chevron’s net decrease of approximately 0.8 million metric tons of CO2-
equivalent emissions from 2007 to 2008 can be attributed primarily to 
reduced flaring accounting for 1 million metric tons at the Cabinda (Angola) 
and Nigeria operations. Flare reductions in Nigeria are attributed to the 
Escravos Gas Plant facility and shutdowns caused by sabotage to pipelines. 
Continuing energy efficiency improvements also helped to minimize growth 
in emissions. Additional significant reduction of GHG emissions is attributed 
to decreased production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and California. Chevron 
Shipping Co. also lowered its emissions. Decreases were offset by emissions 
from a new deepwater operation in Nigeria; increased GHG emissions from 
Chevron’s share of the Yeosu Refinery in South Korea, which saw a new 
heavy oil unit come onstream; increased throughput at Chevron’s Richmond 
Refinery; and increased production from Chevron’s U.S. midcontinent 
upstream operations.

 Chevron’s 2007 emissions have been restated to 60.4 million metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent from 60.7 million metric tons due to a correction in data 
primarily from two business units.

 Chevron’s 2008 GHG emissions data are reported on an equity basis for all 
businesses in which  Chevron has an interest except where noted as follows. 
The following entities are not currently included in the Chevron corporate 

GHG inventory:  Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian Pipeline Consor-
tium, the Azerbaijan International Operating Co., the Chad/Cameroon pipeline 
joint venture, Caltex Australia Ltd.’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, and other 
refineries in which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent or less. These 
are entities over which Chevron does not have full operational control or 
which do not generally follow Chevron’s corporate GHG inventory protocol or 
a compatible protocol. 

 Due to rounding, individual numbers may not sum to the total numbers.

2  Product emissions are calculated based on total 2008 upstream liquids, 
gas and coal production figures from Chevron’s 2008 Annual Report. 
The emissions factors used are from the American Petroleum Institute’s 
Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimations Methodologies for 
the Oil and Gas Industry, published in 2004.

3  Direct emissions come from sources within a facility. Indirect emissions come 
from electricity and steam Chevron imports, less the emissions credits from 
electricity and steam Chevron exports. Grid credits account for the electricity 
Chevron exports that is produced more efficiently than electricity from the 
regional or national grid.

15

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of infrastructure. In these limited circum-
stances, flaring is currently the safest and 
most feasible way to manage the associ-
ated gas in the near term.

We are actively pursuing projects to fur-
ther address this challenging problem in 
Angola, Kazakhstan and Nigeria. These 
long-term projects include major process-
ing capacity to convert gas into liquid fuel 
that can be more readily used in the mar-
ketplace, and the commissioning of a new 
pipeline that will carry natural gas from the 
Niger Delta to Ghana and other markets. 
Construction is completed on the pipeline 
and testing is under way before the line is 
put into service. 

Reinjection is one option to reduce flaring 
when there are suitable reservoir conditions 
and when the comparatively large financial 
investment is justified by the technical feasi-
bility and expected life of the project or the 
expected duration of the need for injection. 
An example of a feasible and successful 
reinjection project is at the Agbami deep-
water field in Nigeria. Other projects, for 
example, those that have a strong likelihood 

of near-term development of gas markets, 
are not generally candidates for reinjection.

Carbon Sequestration  Chevron holds 
large natural gas reserves in Australia 
and is making major investments to 
reduce GHG emissions. Our Gorgon proj-
ect, located more than 81 miles (130 km) 
off the northwest coast, will produce 
liquefied natural gas, a lower-carbon fossil 
fuel. The project will include large-scale 
reinjection and storage of carbon diox-
ide. Gorgon represents the world’s first 
commercial-scale GHG storage project 
to undergo an environmental impact 
assessment including public review and 
comment. In addition, Chevron and its 
joint-venture partners — ExxonMobil and 
Shell — com mitted to public disclosure of 
monitoring data from the injection project 
to assist in the further development of 
sequestration technology. 

Improving Efficiency
Improving our energy efficiency lowers 
the life-cycle emissions of our products. 
In 2008, we updated our energy efficiency 
evaluation process to design new capital 

projects to optimize energy use. This allows 
cost-effective conservation measures to 
be part of the initial design. We incorpo-
rate the cost of carbon emissions in our 
decision-making process for capital proj-
ects. In 2008, we initiated a major effort 
to upgrade our GHG evaluation tools and 
methodology, which will improve our ability 
to assess the potential impact of the GHG 
emissions from our proposed activities and 
to identify the most cost-effective ways to 
address those emissions.

As of 2008, Chevron reduced the total 
energy consumption required to complete 
all of its business functions by 28 percent 
compared with the energy the company 
would have consumed in 1992 to complete 
the same business functions. In 2008, 
the cost of energy to the company was 
approximately $7.6 billion. For our com-
pany’s operated assets, the total energy 
consumption in 2008 was approximately 
914 trillion Btu. Because fuel combustion 
is the largest source of GHG emissions 
from our operations, improving our overall 
energy efficiency represents a correspond-
ing reduction in our carbon emissions. 

Climate 
Partners

 “ “Responding effectively to the risks of 
climate change is and will continue to 
be one of the greatest challenges of this 
century. At MIT, we are convinced that 
a responsible national and international 
response requires close integration of 
the intertwined scientific, economic, 
technologic and policy dimensions of 
this issue. The long-term support by 
Chevron for our program has played an 
important role in allowing this highly 
interdisciplinary effort to thrive.”

Professors Henry D. “Jake” Jacoby 
and Ronald G. Prinn, Co-Directors
Joint Program on the Science 
and Policy of Global Change 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

 Read about the collaboration:
GlobalChange.mit.edu

16

 
We are increasingly attentive to opportuni-
ties to save on energy costs — as seen in 
the projects that follow.

17 percent, representing significant cost 
savings and the avoidance of an estimated 
90,000 metric tons of GHG emissions.

As part of the upgrades planned for our 
refineries in El Segundo and Richmond, 
California, we proposed adding to the 
existing cogeneration facilities at both 
locations. Onsite cogeneration is a highly 
efficient technology that replaces the need 
for generating steam in a boiler and for 
purchasing electricity offsite. 

The Richmond Refinery is the most energy 
efficient of all Chevron’s operated refiner-
ies, and the workforce is always looking for 
ways to make the refinery more efficient. 
Approximately one-fourth of the refinery’s 
annual operating costs represent fuel costs 
associated with producing steam through-
out the facility. With strong support from 
senior management at the site, a coordi-
nated team of operations, maintenance staff 
and facility engineers are working together 
to look for ways to optimize overall steam 
use and minimize venting waste steam. 
Compared with 2007, Richmond reduced 
its annual use of fired steam by about 

Chevron Energy Solutions Co. assisted our 
Richmond, California, refinery in installing 
55 kilowatts of solar power generation to 
help meet the facility’s electricity needs 
with clean, renewable energy. 

We continued to improve fuel efficiency in 
our shipping fleet by instituting a propeller 
painting and polishing initiative on our oil 
tankers. By reducing resistance across the 
propeller blades, we are able to decrease 
the amount of oil required to power each 
tanker by approximately 24 barrels per 
operating day. 

We joined with the other members of the 
European Petroleum Industry Association 
to develop and launch an industrywide 
driver awareness campaign to promote 
more fuel-efficient driving habits among 
Europe’s motorists. 

Through a variety of employee-based pro-
grams, such as supporting vanpooling and 

public transit subsidies in some locations, 
we encourage our workforce to reduce 
miles traveled. And our recently launched 
“I Will” campaign, visible to the public, 
deals with energy conservation and effi-
ciency, sharing facts about our corporate 
efforts and highlighting energy saving 
measures of individuals, such as vanpool-
ing and unplugging appliances not in use.

Pursuing Business Opportunities 
and Investing in Research, 
Development and Technology
Chevron invests in research partnerships 
to develop alternative fuels whose life-cycle 
production results in less CO2 than do con-
ventional liquid fuels per unit of energy.

Chevron Technology Ventures is  working 
on a number of research projects and 
partnerships to develop low-carbon fuel 
from biomass.

Through our partnerships with universi-
ties, such as the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology and the University of Califor-
nia at Davis, we are supporting innovative 
research in the environmental and economic 

Improving 
Efficiency

 Tour the new facility:
Chevron.com/GreenBuilding

In May 2008, Chevron completed its first LEED-certified green building project, the 
Northpark facility in Covington, Louisiana. Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) is a certification program of the U.S. Green Building Council and is a 
recognized standard in the United States for measuring the sustainability of buildings, 
taking into account energy and water use, the procurement of recycled material in 
construction, waste minimization, and other elements. The Northpark facility received 
LEED Gold certification, the second-highest level. Currently, Chevron is pursuing LEED 
certification for new construction and existing buildings at six additional Chevron sites, 
including its San Ramon corporate headquarters.

17

 
impacts of climate change as well as in 
energy efficiency and other strategies to 
help reduce overall GHG emissions.

Chevron participates in joint-industry proj-
ects to enable the development and safe, 
widespread deployment of significantly 
lower-cost carbon capture and storage 
technologies. These projects draw on 
the best talent offered by the participat-
ing companies, universities, government 
and private research organizations to 
investigate a broad range of potential 
technologies in order to commercialize 
those that offer the most benefit to 
the participants. Chevron actively par-
ticipates in the Cooperative Research 
Center for Greenhouse Gas Technologies 
(www.co2crc.com.au) and the CO2 Capture 
Project (www.co2captureproject.org). In 
addition to financial support, Chevron 
provides industry guidance, technical 
expertise, and program management. 
Results from these research efforts are 
being integrated into Chevron’s Gorgon 
liquefied natural gas project in Australia 
and may be considered for potential future 
projects involving CO2 capture and storage.

Supporting Flexible and 
Economically Sound Policies
Our Seven Principles for Addressing Cli-
mate Change summarize the fundamental 
aspects of achieving a sustainable and 
economically viable carbon management 
program. We are actively engaged with 

governments and nongovernmental organi-
zations in several jurisdictions currently 
considering climate policies — including in 
Australia, Canada and the United States 
(in California and other jurisdictions) — 
advocating for sound climate policy in 
line with our Seven Principles.

And so will we.

Energy demand is breathing heavily down the neck of supply. We all need to rethink 
what we’re doing and how much we’re using.

As we produce more energy and develop alternatives, we at Chevron have improved 
our energy efﬁ ciency by 27 percent since 1992. In fact, our Gulf of Mexico Exploration 
and Production headquarters, rebuilt in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, became the 
ﬁ rst LEED gold-certiﬁ ed building in the state of Louisiana — consuming 22 percent less 
energy than other buildings of its size.

Join us in one of the most important efforts of our time — using less. 

Will you?

Learn more at  will you join us.com.

CHEVRON, the CHEVRON HALLMARK, and HUMAN ENERGY are registered trademarks of Chevron Intellectual Property LLC.  © 2008 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

Above: Chevron’s “I Will” advertising campaign educates the public on some of the practi-
cal ways individuals can use less energy, such as carpooling, turning down thermostats and 
using cold water to wash clothes. To read more, please visit WillYouJoinUs.com.

7 Chevron’s Seven Principles 

for Addressing Climate Change

1. Global Engagement
The reduction of greenhouse gases must 
be shared equitably by the top emitting 
countries of the world through long-term 
and coordinated national frameworks.

2. Energy Security
Oil, coal and natural gas are expected to 
dominate the energy supply for decades 
to come. Climate policy must recognize 
the role these critical energy sources 
play to ensure security of supply and 
economic growth.

18

3. Maximize Conservation
Energy efficiency and conservation are 
the most immediate and cost-effective 
sources of “new” energy with no GHG 
emissions. Government programs to pro-
mote energy efficiency and conservation 
must continue and should be enhanced.

4. Measured and Flexible Approach
GHG reduction objectives must avoid a 
disruptive economic impact and allow 
for realistic turnover of capital and a 
phase-in of new low-carbon technol ogies. 
Periodic “checkpoints” are advised as 
new scientific and economic impact 
information becomes available.

5. Broad, Equitable Treatment
Broad and equitable treatment of all 
sectors of the economy is necessary 
to ensure no sector or company is 
disproportionately burdened.

6. Enable Technology
Government support and partnerships 
with the private sector for pre- competitive 
research and development in carbon 
mitigation and clean energy technologies 
must continue at an accelerated pace.

7. Transparency
The costs, risks, trade-offs and uncertain-
ties associated with climate policies must 
be openly communicated.

Renewable Energy
Emerging Energy

Chevron’s focus on developing and deploying renewable and 
alternative energy is part of a longer-term strategy to invest prof-
itably in promising low- or zero-carbon technologies. To meet the 
growing energy demands of the global economy, all sources of 
energy — including conventional and nonconventional fossil fuels, 
renewable energy, and increased efficiency and conservation — 
will be needed. One of the challenges of meeting this demand 
through the increased use of renewable sources is ensuring 
availability on a very large scale and at an affordable price.

Geothermal Energy
Today, Chevron is the largest producer of 
geothermal energy in the world. Our opera-
tions in Indonesia and the Philippines have 
a combined installed capacity of 1,273 mega-
watts, including our most recent addition 
to the geothermal fleet: the 110- megawatt 
Darajat Unit III in Garut, West Java, 
Indo nesia. This capacity provides enough 
renewable energy to meet the needs of 
16 million people in these countries.

Technology and Innovation
Our Chevron Technology Ventures (CTV) 
subsidiary manages innovation, commer-
cialization and integration of emerging 
technologies, including renewable energy 
applications. Renewable technologies that 
CTV is investigating include advanced 

biofuels, advanced solar applications, engi-
neered geothermal energy, ocean energy 
and bioenergy.

Chevron Energy Solutions Co. (CES) 
applies proven energy efficiency and 
renewable power technologies — such as 
infrastructure systems, energy controls, 
solar power, biomass and fuel cells — to 
meet the facility needs of institutional 
customers. CES also collaborates with 
other Chevron groups to support internal 
energy efficiency, reliability and renewable 
energy projects.

In 2008, CES completed an innovative, 
energy-efficient central utility plant to 
provide reliable steam, chilled water and 
power for the U.S. government’s National 

Technology Ventures

Trond Unneland, managing executive of 
Chevron’s venture capital group, thinks he 
might have the best job in the company. 
He leads a team that invests in startup 
companies with innovative technologies 
that meet Chevron’s needs in information 
technology, materials science, oil and gas 
technology, communications, renewable 
energy, and energy efficiency. The group’s 
portfolio has approximately 30 compa-
nies, and about one-third are in renewable 
energy and energy efficiency. Since the 
group formed in 1999, it has transferred 
technologies from its portfolio companies 
into Chevron more than 100 times. Unique 
in the venture capital industry, Chevron can 
be both an investor and a customer in the 
portfolio companies. 

Above: Trond Unneland (right) discusses 
the technology with Andrew Tudhope, CEO 
of Sub-One Technologies, Inc., a company 
in which Chevron has invested.

 Explore innovative technologies:
Chevron.com/TechFunding

Interagency Biodefense Campus at Fort 
Detrick in Frederick, Maryland.

Solar Energy
Today’s advanced solar technologies pre-
sent significant opportunities to harness 
the sun’s rays to generate large amounts 
of energy. Whether generating electric-
ity using photovoltaic cells or using the 
heat to create stored thermal energy, we 
are applying these state-of-the-art solar 
technologies at our own operations and on 
behalf of the clients we serve through CES.

CES completed a 3.4-megawatt solar 
photo voltaic system for the Milpitas 
Unified School District in California. Solar 
arrays at 14 sites are expected to generate 
75 percent of the annual power needs for 
the district and decrease carbon emissions 
by more than 23,000 metric tons. The 
project is designed to reduce energy costs 
by 22 percent, resulting in $12 million in 
savings for the school district over the life 
of the solar power system. 

Chevron became a sponsor in 2008 of the 
Lighting a Billion Lives Campaign, organized 
by The Energy and Resources Institute in 
India. The project provides solar lanterns to 
households without electricity that usually 
use kerosene or paraffin torches. The insti-
tute is seeking to replace these  inefficient, 
high-polluting light sources with a safer, 
sustainable and clean alternative. Our sup-
port enabled the installation of a charging 
station in one village and provided 50 lan-
terns — one for each family in the village. 

Emerging Fuels
At Chevron, we believe that long-term 
 solutions to meet demand for transporta-
tion fuels must involve a range of innovative 
alternatives that supplement petroleum 
products, alternatives that can be produced 
at commercial scale and affordably. We are 
investing in targeted research and develop-
ment projects to discover new sources of 
untapped energy and make the best use of 
the energy sources we currently have.

Biofuels
CTV has established strategic alliances 
to research and develop new feedstocks 
and new process technologies for convert-
ing nonfood biomass into transportation 
fuels at commercial scale. Our research 
collaborations include industrial partners, 

19

 
the U.S. Department of Energy’s National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory, the Georgia 
Institute of Technology, Texas A&M 
University, the University of California 
at Davis, and the Colorado Center for 
Biorefining and Biofuels. 

Formed in 2008, Catchlight Energy LLC, 
our joint venture with Weyerhaeuser Co., is 
currently focused on discovering, develop-
ing or acquiring technology for converting 
forestry-based cellulose into transportation 
fuels. Drawing on Weyerhaeuser’s expertise 
in growing, harvesting and processing large 
amounts of biomass on its forestlands and 
Chevron’s expertise in processing, market-
ing and distributing liquid fuels, Catchlight 
is evaluating various technologies, types 
of vegetation and growth management 
methods to be used for the commercial-
scale production of sustainable cellulosic 
biofuel. Catchlight is pursuing the concept 
of “intercropping” — growing cellulosic 
biomass in the spaces between trees on 
Weyerhaeuser’s managed forestlands in 
the United States.

are evaluating mechanisms for acquiring 
it in sufficiently large quantities. At the 
same time, we are working with biomass 
experts to help avoid any long-term 
adverse impacts from production and to 
incorporate the three major components of 
sustainability — environmental protection, 
economic feasibility and the minimization 
of social impacts — at the front end of any 
new biomass initiatives.

Our research partnerships with universi-
ties continue to be an important part of 
our alternative energy activities. In 2008, a 
number of projects moved from bench-scale 
research and development activities into 
the planning phase for pilot-scale testing of 
innovative biofuel production technologies.

Hydrogen 
Chevron owns and operates five U.S. 
demonstration hydrogen fueling stations 
as part of a multiyear study with the U.S. 
Department of Energy (DOE). When initiat-
ing the DOE’s hydrogen program in 2004, 
our objectives were twofold:

Through CTV, we also are assessing a 
variety of biomass sources to identify 
potential feedstocks that could be available 
on a commercial scale. We are investigat-
ing various types of nonfood biomass and 

•  To demonstrate safe, practical hydrogen 

technologies in real-world settings.

•  To identify and overcome key technical 

challenges.

This five-year demonstration program, 
scheduled to conclude in December 2009, 
accomplished these objectives. We con-
structed and operated the five stations 
successfully and safely, using a variety of 
advanced technologies to produce hydro-
gen from different sources (natural gas 
and water). The stations serviced several 
vehicle types, including fuel cell vehicles, 
hybrid electric fuel cell buses and internal 
combustion engine buses.

For hydrogen to play a larger role in 
meeting future world energy demand, 
some technical hurdles will need to be 
overcome. First, the energy density of 
hydrogen is much smaller than that of 
gasoline, so delivering the same amount 
of energy would require hydrogen stor-
age and fueling facilities about two to 
four times larger than comparable gaso-
line stations. Also, the cost of hydrogen 
is still much higher than that of gasoline, 
and while some of the cost differential 
may decrease at larger scales, it is not 
expected to become cost competitive 
for many years. Through demonstration 
projects, Chevron and DOE have a much 
better understanding today of hydrogen’s 
promise and what it will take for hydro-
gen to become a widespread fuel for 
the future.

Geothermal

Mayon Volcano in Albay, Philippines, is located 
near the Chevron-operated Tiwi  geothermal 
field. A pioneering partnership with the 
state-owned National Power Corp. led to the 
country’s first commercial geothermal power 

project. Combined with the company’s Mak-
Ban geothermal field operations, Chevron 
provides 637 megawatts of clean, renewable 
energy for the island of Luzon, enough to 
power 3.2 million homes.

Biomass

Combining their strengths, Chevron and 
Weyerhaeuser formed an innovative partner-
ship to research and develop biofuels from 
forest residuals. 

20

Celebes Sea

Indonesia

Kalimantan 

Makassar Strait

Biodiversity in Indonesia

Our geothermal operations in Indonesia 
help make Chevron the world’s largest pro-
ducer of this renewable energy source. But 
that is not the only way we work to protect 
the environment in the country. 

Near our oil and gas operations off the 
eastern coast of Kalimantan, Indonesia, 
the coral reefs in and around the Makassar 
Strait repre sent a biologically rich ecosys-
tem that supports a diverse community 
of turtles, manta rays, dolphins and many 
other marine species. However, widespread 
fishing practices, such as blast fishing 
and the fishermen’s use of poisons to 
stun fish, threaten to severely damage 
the reefs. Chevron is supporting efforts 
by The Nature Conservancy, a nonprofit 
organization dedicated to conserving and 

protecting the world’s flora and fauna, to 
change the dynamics of human interaction 
with the environment in Indonesia’s coastal 
communities and to preserve the biodiver-
sity and productivity of the ecosystem for 
future generations.

In addition, in July 2008, 23 Indonesia-
based Chevron employees participated 
in a Nature Conservancy training course: 
Sustainable Resource Use for the Benefit 
of Local People. This training was designed 
specifically for employees to learn best 
practices on how to develop community-
based conservation programs within both 
marine and terrestrial project areas. 

Employees learned how The Nature 
Conservancy is supporting the develop-

ment of alternative sources of livelihood 
to relieve the pressure on fisheries. Other 
local commercial activities being encour-
aged include the production of virgin 
coconut oil, floor mats made from coconut 
husks, processed fish goods and seaweed, 
and ecotourism based on recreational 
diving. Chevron managers who helped 
organize the training hope that the skills 
and knowledge gained will allow us to 
increase environmental awareness and 
biodiversity sensitivity and to promote 
sustainable uses of natural resources 
and alternative livelihoods in and around 
the communities where we operate. This 
should result in greater protection of the 
precious marine and terrestrial biodiversity 
of Indonesia.

Algae

Algae are being explored for their potential as 
a feedstock for next-generation biofuel. Algae 
grow quickly, are naturally abundant and grow 
in many environments. Chevron and its part-
ner, the U.S. Department of Energy’s National 

Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), com-
bine their core strengths to study the viability 
of producing transportation fuels from algae. 
NREL researchers Kimberly Christensen and 
Eric Knoshaug process algal cultures.

Solar

In 2007, Chevron Energy Solutions installed two 
different types of photovoltaic cells at the Mission 
Bay campus of the University of California at San 
Francisco. The clean energy generated by the 
system prevents nearly 213 metric tons of carbon 
dioxide emissions each year.

21

Environmental Management
Managing Our Footprint

Left: Chevron’s Moulavi Bazar gas ﬁ eld 
pipeline is routed through the Noorjahan 
Tea Estate in Bangladesh without disturb-
ing the garden.

demonstrated that commonly consumed 
fish are safe to eat and contaminant levels 
are within safety limits set by the U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration for commercially 
sold fish. 

Chevron completed the Environmental, 
Social and Health Impact Assessment 
for a seismic survey to be undertaken in 
Lawachara National Park in Bangladesh in 
support of potential natural gas exploration 
and production. The assessment identified 
potential concerns and recommended miti-
gation methods, such as limited work hours, 
worker training and waste management, 
to make sure the preliminary exploration 
activities did not adversely affect the natu-
ral wildlife and vegetation around the area. 
The International Union for Conservation of 
Nature and Natural Resources led an envi-
ronmental monitoring team that conducted 
pre- and post-activity surveys in the forest 
and found no significant impact on the flora 
and fauna of the forest. 

Emergency Preparedness and Response
Our first priority is to prevent emergencies, 
such as spills and releases, but we also 
need to be prepared to respond to them 
when they do occur. Whether emergen-
cies are caused by severe weather, natural 
disasters, material failure or human error, 
we strive to learn from each event and 
improve our readiness.

Response During the 
2008 Hurricane Season
After Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, 
Chevron operations in the region revisited 
their emergency preparedness plans and 
made revisions based on lessons learned. 
Chevron has a flexible, tiered emergency 
response system that includes local 
incident command teams supported by 
corporate and external resources. These 
teams were activated when Hurricanes 
Gustav and Ike affected the U.S. Gulf Coast 
and Caribbean islands in 2008. Regional 
coordination was instrumental during 
the 10-day closure of our Houston office 
complexes. Closure decisions and com-
munications to our workforce were timely, 
which resulted in no injuries. Flexibility and 

To tap new energy resources, Chevron is now operating in more 
difficult and isolated areas than ever before. We are committed 
to seeing that new projects are developed in an environmen-
tally sound manner and that existing operations continue to 
reduce their environmental impacts.

Continuous Improvement 
Through World-Class Standards
Chevron’s comprehensive environmental 
management system drives continuous 
improvement across our operations. Our 
design standards for new capital projects 
require consideration of environmental 
aspects and resource conservation. New 
projects must avoid continuous gas flaring 
and venting and must incorporate reinjec-
tion of produced water where feasible. 
In addition, we are systematically imple-
menting performance standards at our 
existing operations to minimize emissions, 
discharges and waste and to promote 
responsible waste management practices.

For instance, our Alba North platform in 
the North Sea implemented a multiyear 
project to test and demonstrate the feasi-
bility of a new technology to further clean 
water that is pumped out of a well with 
oil. This produced water is separated from 
the oil and then typically discharged into 
the sea. At Alba, the new process reduced 
the concentration of oil in the produced 
water discharge from 27 milligrams per 
liter (mg/L) to 9.6 mg/L, which is below the 
regulatory limit of 30 mg/L. In 2008, we 
also piloted a new reinjection process at 
Alba that further reduced oil loading from 
these discharges.

Supporting Biodiversity and 
Healthy Ecosystems 
Some of Chevron’s international con-
cessions are located in or adjacent to a 

22

protected area as defined by the World 
Conservation Monitoring Centre’s World 
Database on Protected Areas. Chevron has 
a long history of operating in the vicinity of 
ecologically sensitive areas.

Along a 1.9-mile (3-km) stretch of beach 
adjacent to Chevron’s operations in 
Malongo, Angola, lies a major nesting area 
for olive ridley sea turtles, an internation-
ally listed endangered species. We initiated 
conservation efforts in 2000 and improved 
protection techniques in recent years with 
the use of geographic information systems 
and global positioning system  technology. 
In addition, we hired and trained local 
fishermen from nearby communities to 
help monitor and protect the nesting 
turtles and their eggs. In Soyo, sea turtles 
are fitted with satellite tracking devices 
to help us better understand the turtles’ 
use of the area and understand the poten-
tial impact on the turtles of the Angola 
LNG (liquefied natural gas) project’s con-
struction and operations. The activity of 
the turtles can be viewed at SeaTurtle.org/
Tracking/?project_id=263.

Chevron responded to community con-
cerns regarding safe consumption of fish 
from Cabinda Bay. Fishing in that area is 
an important commercial and subsistence 
resource. Following public concerns over 
fish quality, our local business unit initi-
ated a program to sample fish tissue for 
potential toxins. Now in the program’s third 
year, the lab analyses have consistently 

Global Emissions to Air 1, 2
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Emissions to Air 1, 3
Metric tons

Petroleum Spills 4
Volume in barrels

  Upstream 

  Downstream 

  Other

  VOCs 

  SOx 

  NOx

   Secondary 

  Spills to land 

  Volume

containment 

  and water 

recovered

(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:42)(cid:43)

(cid:41)(cid:45)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:39)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:42)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:43)

(cid:43)(cid:45)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:43)(cid:41)(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:46)(cid:41)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:77)(cid:70)(cid:58)(cid:106)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:74)(cid:70)(cid:111)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:111)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:44)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:42)(cid:45)

(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:43)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:39)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:47)(cid:46)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:42)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:48)

(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:47)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:42)(cid:47)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:46)

(cid:44)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:44)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:48)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:47)(cid:44)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:43)(cid:43)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:43)(cid:44)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:47)(cid:39)(cid:40)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:47)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:43)(cid:43)(cid:42)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:46)(cid:44)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:42)

(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:39)(cid:42)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:44)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:46)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:35)(cid:43)(cid:40)(cid:45)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:45)(cid:42)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:43)

(cid:40)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:43)(cid:48)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:43)(cid:35)(cid:42)(cid:48)(cid:48)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:43)(cid:44)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:39)

(cid:45)(cid:35)(cid:39)(cid:48)(cid:48)

(cid:42)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:41)(cid:42)

(cid:40)(cid:40)(cid:35)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:41)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:35)(cid:44)(cid:40)(cid:43)

(cid:48)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:44)

(cid:43)(cid:46)(cid:35)(cid:48)(cid:42)(cid:43)

4  Secondary containment volume — which is not 
released to the environment — is included in 
the total volume listed at the end of each bar. 
Approximately 27 percent, or 4,636 barrels, of the 
total volume was spilled to secondary containment 
in 2008. The volume of controllable petroleum 
spills increased by 8,247 barrels over 2007 volume, 
including 1,105 barrels of hurricane-related spills 
and 1,488 barrels associated with sabotage.

Global Emissions to Air by Sector 1, 2
Metric tons

U.S. Refining Emissions to Air 1
Metric tons per million barrels processed

Petroleum Spills
Number of spills

Upstream  Downstream 

Other

VOCs 

SOx 

NOx

VOCs 

SOx 

NOx 

2008 

2007 

2006 

2005 

2004 

2008 

2007 

2006 

2005 

2004 

2008 

2007 

2006 

2005 

2004 

201,209 

240,716 

357,727 

445,049 

402,362 

97,731 

63,223 

82,922 

87,455 

96,809 

95,717 

121,378 

113,001 

97,829 

89,764 

18,648 

18,788 

26,100 

23,442 

24,330 

18,496 

20,451 

25,574 

23,986 

1,878

1,136

87

212

80

8,810

7,970

9,714

7,433

26,091 

10,499

12,282 

26,785

14,041 

16,020 

15,837 

9,257

9,083

8,250

2008 

2007 
2006 

2005 

2004 

26 

34 

30 

25 

22 

13 

25 

34 

35 

36 

16

24

23

22

23

2008 

2007 
2006 
2005 

2004 

760

826
803

846

986

Average Oil Concentration in Discharges to Water
Parts per million

  Upstream 

  Refining and chemicals

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:43)

13,877 

10,656

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:46)(cid:42)

(cid:42)(cid:37)(cid:46)(cid:39)

(cid:43)(cid:37)(cid:44)(cid:40)

(cid:40)(cid:44)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:43)

(cid:42)(cid:41)(cid:37)(cid:39)(cid:42)

1   Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) derive primarily 
from fugitive emissions from equipment (such as 
valves, pumps and compressors), flaring and venting, 
and flashing gas. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur 
oxides (SOx) occur during combustion.

2  Global VOC emissions were significantly lower than in 
2007, mainly due to reduced cold venting in Indonesia 
upstream operations, improved estimation methods 
in PNZ (Partitioned Neutral Zone between Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait) operations, decreased flaring at 
the Escravos Gas Plant in Nigeria, reduced production 
caused by hurricanes in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and 
reduced burning of gas oil in Argentina.

 In 2009, Chevron’s Corporate Health, Environment 
and Safety organization is updating the VOC and 

Criteria Pollutants Protocol, which will standardize 
emissions estimation methodology for all operating 
units across the corporation.

 Global SOx emissions were 36 percent higher than 
in 2007, mainly due to increased sour gas produc-
tion from the maturing Eocene reservoir in the PNZ, 
and to improved measurement of gas production 
and improved calibration of flare gas meters in PNZ 
upstream operations. 

 Global SOx emissions from manufacturing helped off-
set the overall SOx emissions increase. The decreases 
were mainly due to flaring system improvements at 
the Pascagoula (Mississippi), El Segundo (California) 
and Hawaii facilities, as well as the estimation method 
changes at the Salt Lake (Utah) facility.

 Global NOx emissions were lower than in 2007, 
mainly due to manufacturing: improved estimation 
factors at the Pembroke (United Kingdom) facility, 
and the startup of a flare-vapor recovery system at 
the Hawaii facility.

 Global NOx emissions from upstream operations 
decreased due to a correction of 2007 estimations 
in Chevron Nigeria Ltd. onshore operations. However, 
this was offset by an emissions increase in shipping 
operations due to estimation improvements.

3  U.S. Refining NOx and SOx emissions decreased 
mainly due to improvements at the Pascagoula 
(Mississippi) facility.

23

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
coordination were demonstrated when 
emergency response contractors and 
equipment that were on standby to aid 
Chevron Pipe Line Co. were transferred to 
help our Port Arthur lubricants plant after 
post-storm reconnaissance determined the 
need was greater at Port Arthur.

Maintaining business continuity to support 
our customers and the communities where 
we operate is a shared objective across 
Chevron. Based on the lessons learned in 
2005, many organizations had updated 
their plans to promote the continuity of 
critical business functions should such an 
event recur. Collectively, these improve-
ments proved to be very valuable after 
Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008. For 
instance, after Hurricane Katrina, ware-
houses with generators and humanitarian 
supplies were established on the Gulf 
Coast. So in the aftermath of Gustav and 
Ike, these resources were immediately 
deployed to the affected areas, and we were 
able to effectively restore power at service 
stations and furnish our employees with 
various humanitarian supplies. Also, several 
organizations implemented pre-planned 
movement of critical operations and per-
sonnel out of the Gulf region. Chevron Pipe 
Line Co., for example, has a secondary con-
trol center in Midland, Texas, which served 
as a home base during the response.

Product Stewardship
Product stewardship is one of the 13 ele-
ments of Chevron’s Operational Excellence 
Management System. We identify, assess 

and manage potential environmental, 
health and safety risks associated with a 
product from conception to consumption, 
recycling or disposal.

In 2008, we conducted product reviews 
in Asia, Europe and North America. These 
reviews examined potential life-cycle risks 
of new products, such as biofuels, and 
examined refinery projects that affect 
our final products. In 2008, we began 
implementation of a standardized product 
stewardship process that was developed 
in 2007. The process is expected to be 
fully implemented in all of our Global 
Downstream business units by the end 
of 2009. 

Unleaded gasoline enables motor vehicle 
exhaust catalysts to operate as designed, 
significantly reducing vehicle emissions and 
potentially adverse health effects. In 2005, 
as part of an industry initiative, Chevron 
made a commitment to completely phase 
out lead in motor gasoline. That commit-
ment was fulfilled everywhere in the world, 
with one minor exception. In Egypt, there 
are as yet limited suppliers of lead-free 
gasoline. Leaded gasoline is still supplied 
for some aviation engines that cannot be 
modified to use unleaded gasoline.

Ecuador
As previously reported, Chevron is the 
defendant in a long-standing lawsuit 
alleging environmental contamination 
associated with its subsidiary Texaco 
Petroleum Co.’s (Texpet) past operations 

in the Oriente region of Ecuador. The suit 
is now before a local court in Ecuador. 
Chevron recognizes the serious challenges 
faced by the people of the Oriente region 
but rejects plaintiffs’ opinion that Chevron 
is responsible for addressing their current 
socioeconomic and environmental issues. 
Independently verified scientific evidence 
presented to the court has shown that the 
charges against Chevron are unfounded 
and prove that the remediation Texpet 
carried out was effective and complied 
with the legal and technical requirements 
established under agreements with the 
Republic of Ecuador and its state-owned 
oil company, Petroecuador, as well as with 
internationally accepted standards at the 
time. Moreover, full responsibility for the 
existing environmental problems lies with 
Petroecuador, which has been the sole 
owner and operator of the oil fields for the 
past 17 years, as it has failed to remediate 
its share of the consortium fields and has a 
long and well-known record of oil spills and 
environmental neglect.

There are serious questions as to the 
legitimacy of the plaintiffs’ evidence, 
which Chevron will continue to challenge. 
Chevron maintains a comprehensive Web 
site — in both English and Spanish — on this 
matter:   

  Chevron.com/Ecuador.

Environmental Expenditures 
Chevron estimated its worldwide envi-
ronmental spending in 2008 to be 
approximately $3.1 billion for its consoli-
dated companies, based on definitions and 

Conserving Water 
Resources

Chevron operates eight refineries across 
the globe. Four of these refineries have 
put technologies in place to use treated 
effluent from the local municipality to meet 
their demand for water. Approximately 
one-fourth of the total water used by our 
refineries is supplied by such reclaimed 
wastewater (an estimated municipal efflu-
ent volume of about 45,000 cubic meters 
per day). We are now assessing corporate-
wide water consumption and potential 
water treatment and reuse technologies 

at all of our refineries to identify new recy-
cling opportunities and options to further 
reduce our use of fresh water.

Barrow Island will be the site of natural gas 
processing and storage facilities associated 
with the proposed Gorgon project off the 
coast of Western Australia. Once construc-
tion begins, water will be needed for dust 
suppression and to provide potable water 
for the construction workforce. Water 
requirements will total approximately 1,500 
to 2,000 cubic meters per day. However, 
there are no sustainable freshwater sources 
on Barrow Island adequate to meet opera-
tional needs, and the scarce resources 
that are present provide crucial ecological 

benefits. Thus, the project team is incorpo-
rating the use of a reverse osmosis system to 
desalinate seawater and produce fresh water, 
as well as reuse and recycling processes 
where possible to minimize water required.

Working with stakeholders, Chevron con-
ducted several studies demonstrating that 
disposal into the ocean of the brine gener-
ated by reverse osmosis will have minimal 
effect on Barrow Island and its surrounding 
waters. These studies included both toxic-
ity tests of simulated whole effluents and 
literature reviews of other studies of marine 
impacts of desalination. The results validate 
that the project’s proposed brine disposal 
method is environmentally sound.

24

guidelines from the American Petroleum 
Institute. These expenditures consisted 
of $1.3 billion in capital expenditures for 
environmental projects and $1.8 billion in 
costs associated with preventing, control-
ling, abating or eliminating hazardous 
substances and pollutants from all of our 
sites — operating facilities, closed or divested 
sites, and sites undergoing restoration.

Decreasing Instances of Fines1
We reduced the number of incidents 
resulting in fines and settlements for 
alleged violations of environmental, health 
or safety regulations in 2008 to 564 from 
684 in 2007. Environmental fines and 
settlements were $15.87 million in 2008 
and accounted for less than 1 percent of 
our total environmental expenditures. 
Health and safety fines and settlements 
accounted for approximately 1.2 percent of 
the total fines and settlements, represent-
ing $0.20 million.

Environmental, Health and Safety 
Fines and Settlements

2004  2005  2006  2007  2008

Total number  469 

577 

699  684 

564

1   Chevron changed its reporting practices in fines and 
settlements from reporting the total of all fines and 
settlements to reporting on an equity basis, consistent 
with environmental reporting throughout the report.

Managing Spills
While the total number of spills declined 
from 2007 to 2008, the actual spill volume 

Safe Operations 
in a Class A 
Nature Reserve

Chevron’s management of the Barrow 
Island oil ﬁ eld, off the northwest coast 
of Australia, is recognized as an indus-
try benchmark for the coexistence of 
petroleum development and biodiversity 
protection. Since operations began in 
1964, Chevron has helped prevent the 
introduction of invasive mammal species 
and the spread of weeds on this Class A 
nature reserve, which supports some 
species now extinct on Australia’s main-
land. Chevron ecologist Dorian Moro, 
Ph.D., and his colleagues help manage 
biodiversity projects, such as tracking 
the movement of ﬂ atback turtles to 
maintain the integrity of the environ-
ment. Moro is seen here with one of 
Barrow’s green turtles.

   Observe turtles and other wildlife:

Chevron.com/BarrowIsland

was greater. In 2008, there were 760 
recordable spills of greater than one bar-
rel, totaling 17,492 barrels. Of this volume, 
27 percent was spilled to secondary 
containment, which uses an impermeable 
surface and is designed to contain product 
releases, thus preventing releases to the 
environment. In addition, about 15 percent 
of the total volume was a result of hur-
ricane damage and sabotage.

All spills are investigated, and in 2008 in 
response to our performance decline, we 
conducted a detailed analysis of the causes 
of major spills, which represented approxi-
mately 83 percent of total spill volume in 
2008. Of the 14,459 barrels released in 
major spills, 80 percent of the volume was 
recovered. We are now communicating the 
study findings and implementing the study 
recommendations.

Restoring Wetlands 
at a Former Oil Field

Formed in 1998, Chevron Environmental 
Management Co. (CEMC) offers a wide 
range of environmental liability man-
agement services, which include site 
assessment and remediation; health, 
environ         mental and safety due diligence; 
onshore and offshore facilities decom-
missioning; and well abandonment. CEMC 
strives to develop the best end-of-life 
solutions for company assets, such as 
beneficial reuse and not just regula-
tory closure. 

At Guadalupe Dunes on the Central 
California coast in the United States, 
CEMC restored or created five wetlands 
and remediated more than 20 acres 
(8 hectares) of beach habitat at the 
site of a former oil field, which oper-
ated until the mid-1990s. The site is 
the largest remaining intact natural 
dune-lagoon complex in California 
and is registered as a National Natural 
Land mark. Threatened and endangered 
plants and animal species as well as 
many species of special concern call the 
dunes home. In three of the restored 
wetlands, the California red-legged frog, 
which is on the federal threatened-
 species list, was observed.

Above: The red-legged frog breeds in 
marsh ponds at the Guadalupe Dunes 
restoration project along the Central 
California coast.

25

 
Socioeconomic
A Commitment to Partnerships

Chevron operates in some of the most complex 
environments where communities face diverse 
socioeconomic challenges. Through our community 
engagement, workforce and supplier develop ment 
programs, we strive to be a constructive partner in 
addressing those challenges.

Colombia

Environmental Education 

In the La Guajira region of Colombia, Chevron is helping develop the Wayúu 
 community’s capacity to improve its environment through collecting solid 
waste and recycling, composting or otherwise disposing of it. Chevron and 
partners Ecopetrol and Ecosfera Foundation hired and trained educators to 
work in the indigenous communities. In this photo, educator Carlos Epiayu 
Epieyu and community member Elena Epinayu examine local foliage. More 
than 100 members of the Wayúu community were employed in a natural gas 
construction project in the region.

26

In This Section

 28  Community Engagement
 34   Workforce
 39  Supply Chain
 41  Human Rights

Community Engagement
Empowering Communities 

Left: Chevron Energy for Learning™ 
entered its third year supporting public 
education in school districts affected 
by hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the 
U.S. Gulf Coast. This sixth-grader from 
Gulfport Central Middle School in Gulfport, 
Mississippi, participates in a focus group 
about the program.

globe to help control and eradicate these 
diseases. Many of Chevron’s approximately 
120 physicians and 600 health care workers 
are supporting in-country implementation 
of Global Fund programs. 

The health of our employees and the 
communities where we operate is critical 
to achieving business results. So helping 
eradicate AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria 
not only supports communities, it aligns 
with Chevron’s long-term business inter-
ests as well.

Chevron made a three-year, $30 million 
commitment and is allocating $5 million 
each to Global Fund grant recipients in 
Indonesia, Thailand, Angola, South Africa, 
Nigeria and the Philippines, countries with 
high rates of these diseases.

Tuberculosis is the sixth-greatest cause 
of mortality in the Philippines, posing a 
significant threat to the country’s people 
and the economy. In October, we launched 
a partnership with the Tropical Disease 
Foundation to support tuberculosis treat-
ment and prevention. The partnership 
includes an awareness campaign for 
employees, and education, testing and 
referral services at terminals and Caltex 
service stations for customers and drivers 
in greater Manila and some other cities.

We are partnering with the Western Cape 
Provincial Health Department in South 
Africa, supporting the province’s goal: by 
2011, reduce new HIV infections by 50 per-
cent and expand access to treatment, care 
and support to 80 percent of people diag-
nosed with HIV. Chevron’s contribution will 
help provide home-based care and expand a 
peer youth-education program on preven-
tion. At Caltex stations on the Western Cape, 
Chevron will help build awareness of current 
prevention and treatment programs.

Other Global Fund partnerships are 
expected to be launched in 2009.

In many countries and communities where we operate, social 
issues are part of a broader set of varied and complex socioeco-
nomic and security concerns. Our programs engage communities 
and individuals, empowering them to promote sustainability and 
helping deliver long-term socioeconomic benefits. The programs 
described in this section have touched millions of lives and dem-
onstrate Chevron’s commitment to being the partner of choice.

Chevron’s programs are anchored in part-
nerships with governments, communities, 
local and international nongovernmental 
organizations, and development agencies. 
We have built a number of partnerships 
on trust, transparency, mutual learning 
and a common purpose to promote human 
progress and economic development. We 
address social issues by working together 
and delivering results “on the ground.”

Our community engagement programs 
enhance our ability to conduct business 
in many parts of the world. In 2008, we 
invested $160 million in our community 
engagement initiatives, with 50 percent in 
North America; 22 percent in Africa; 14 per-
cent in Asia-Pacific; 9 percent in Eurasia, 
Europe and the Middle East; and 5 percent 
in Latin America. Most was invested in our 
three primary focus areas — improving 
access to basic human needs, enabling 
education and training opportunities, and 
promoting sustainable livelihoods.

Access to Basic Human Needs
Health care, nutrition, water, sanitation, 
agriculture and disaster response provide 
a foundation for economic development 
activities. We use several programs to 
promote access to basic human needs, 

28

such as our partnership with North Star 
Foundation, an international agency estab-
lishing a network of roadside health clinics 
at major truck stops and border cross-
ings in Africa and Asia. With North Star, 
Chevron established an HIV/AIDS Roadside 
Wellness Center at the heavily trafficked 
Oshoek border post between Swaziland 
and South Africa in 2007. As with other 
center locations, Oshoek was identified as 
a “hot spot” where significant numbers of 
truckers congregate and where sex work 
and other informal trades flourish. In 2008, 
the center provided HIV/AIDS  prevention 
education, distributed condoms, and 
offered basic medical tests and services to 
4,500 drivers and people from surround-
ing communities. North Star measures its 
progress annually against baseline surveys. 
In five years, it has seen an average annual 
reduction in sexually transmitted infections 
of 17 percent among drivers, workers and 
community members.

Global Fund 
As the first Corporate Champion of The 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and Malaria — a public-private partnership 
created by the United Nations — Chevron 
is leveraging funds as well as medical 
and business expertise from around the 

Education and Training
Chevron supports kindergarten to grade 12, 
vocational, college and adult education 
to help children and adults acquire the 
skills needed to compete in a more global 
economy. In 2008, Chevron and partners 
opened the Saudi Petroleum Services 
Polytechnic Institute in Dammam, Saudi 
Arabia, to prepare high school graduates 
to work in the oil and gas industry. The 
polytechnic will provide training in petro-
leum industry core competencies, such as 
health, the environment and safety; math; 
science; and information technology.

Technical Training in the Philippines
Chevron Geothermal Philippines Holdings, 
Inc., is partnering with local govern-
ments and the Consuelo Foundation, a 
nongovernmental organization, to help 
out-of-school youth acquire the skills they 
need to find employment either in local job 
markets or through self-employment. The 
program, which trained 150 youth in weld-
ing, electronics and small engine repair 
in 2008, has completion rates between 
74 and 95 percent and employment rates 
of 84 percent or higher. 

Building Communities of Learning 
in Africa and South America
Since 2003, Chevron has partnered with 
the Discovery Channel Global Education 
Partnership to support the creation of 
55 Learning Centers in Angola, Venezuela, 
South Africa and Nigeria. The partnership 
brings educational video programming and 
teacher training to underserved primary 
schools. Study results indicate that schools 
equipped with Learning Centers show 
an increase in student learning, teacher 
effectiveness and community access to 
information. In the eight Nigerian centers, 
for example, parents and teachers note a 
reduction in lateness and truancy among 
students and an increase in enrollment by 
as much as 50 percent. The centers also 
become hubs for adults in the community, 
providing information on topics ranging 
from HIV/AIDS to vocational training. We 
have contributed more than $3.6 million 
to date. In 2009, we are expanding our 
partnership by committing $1.5 million to 
establish additional Learning Centers in 
South Africa and, for the first time, in Brazil. 
During our five-year partnership, 1,900 
teachers, 89,000 students and 240,000 
community members benefited. View a 
video at Chevron.com/LearningCenters.

Volunteer Service: Turning on the Taps in Tanzania

Abby Hoats is an environmental engineer 
with Chevron Energy Technology Co. in 
Richmond, California, where she works 
on water technology projects. In July, she 
volunteered her skills and her vacation to 
a more basic water project — getting clean 
drinking water flowing throughout the 
remote village of Ngelenge in the south-
western corner of Tanzania.

A member of the San Francisco chapter 
of Engineers Without Borders, Hoats 
donated her time throughout the year as 
a project manager and donated her travel 
expenses this summer to lead an imple-
mentation team. Chevron Humankind, 
the company’s matching and volunteer 
program for U.S. employees and retirees, 
played a role, providing a $1,000 grant 
in recognition of Hoats’ volunteer hours. 
The program also matches an employee’s 
financial contribution made directly to a 
nonprofit up to $4,000. 

 “Chevron Humankind,” says Hoats, “is 
extremely generous. It’s easy to use and 

it doubles my financial impact to causes 
I care about.”

Once the multiphase project is complete, 
the community will benefit because run-
ning water reduces the burden on women 
in the village, who traditionally collect and 
carry water. This will allow them to spend 
more time growing cash crops that would 
increase their household income. 

Hoats benefited because, as she explains, “I 
gain project management experience in the 
developing world. Experiencing those chal-
lenges helps in the work I do at Chevron.” 
She also reaps personal satisfaction. “To 
see a community where day-to-day life is 
very different from mine, to see how much 
water means, and to see a productive and 
vibrant community despite less material 
wealth — it’s a great learning experience.”

Above, left: Abby Hoats. Right: Women 
in Tanzania carry gravel from the Ruhuhu 
River to their village. The gravel was used 
to make concrete for a water  storage tank.

Champion in Global Fund’s Fight Against Disease

 “Global companies with large, long-term investments in developing countries understand 
that fighting disease is a necessary part of helping these economies to succeed. Chevron’s 
long-standing dedication to combating HIV/AIDS, combined with its needs-based partner-
ship approach to community engagement, made it an ideal first Corporate Champion.” 

Rajat Gupta 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria

29

Energy for Learning™ on the U.S. Gulf Coast 
In 2006, Chevron launched Energy for 
Learning™, a three-year, $18 million initia-
tive to support public education in school 
districts affected by Hurricanes Katrina 
and Rita. Working with education officials 
in Mississippi and Louisiana, we developed 
the program to address the priorities of 
23 districts. 

School districts used their Chevron grants 
to jump-start recovery by providing inter-
active whiteboards for classrooms, science 
equipment, computers, books and other 
supplies. Funding also supported teacher 
training and leadership programs, the 
creation of an international baccalaureate 
program, and the establishment of two 
preschools in Mississippi. Approximately 
50,000 students, teachers and administra-
tors were direct beneficiaries.

In the fall of 2008, as Energy for Learning™ 
entered its final year of implementation, we 
undertook a third-party evaluation to meas-
ure successes and lessons learned. The 
evaluation included interviews with more 
than 250 students, teachers, parents and 
partners. It concluded that the initiative 
engaged and excited students, gave teach-
ers new skills and tools, spurred innovation, 
and enhanced the image of schools as safe 
and positive places of learning. 

Grant recipients stated that the funding 
not only supported rebuilding efforts, it 
also helped “leapfrog” their schools into 
world-class learning facilities; empow-
ered students, teachers and parents; and 
restored hope for a bright future for the 
children, their families and communities. 

The evaluation identified areas for 
improvement — measuring program results, 
increasing communication, and further 
including stakeholders — that we will bring 
to future community programs.

Sustainable Livelihoods: 
Micro and Small Enterprises 
Access to markets and credit is essen-
tial for micro and small enterprise 
development. Chevron, together with 
international investment partners, estab-
lished NovoBanco in 2004 as part of our 
Angola Partnership Initiative, with the 
primary objective of enhancing the local 
economic base of Angola. NovoBanco is 

30

a microfinance institution that provides 
access to finance to small entrepreneurs 
and low-income households, segments of 
the market previously underserved. It has 
expanded to three branches with 31,207 
clients and $27 million in net assets. In 
2008 alone, it gave more than $10 million 
in loans to help Angolan entrepreneurs. 
NovoBanco plans to expand its operations 
by adding 11 new branches.

One of NovoBanco’s model clients is Ana 
Coumba, the owner of Organizações 
Sandeleji, a small company she founded 
15 years ago with her husband after seeing 
a business opportunity in baking bread and 
selling it to her neighbors. 

 “The following day, after the opening of the 
bakery,” says Coumba, “I had many of them 
knocking at my door asking for bread to 
buy. I realized that there was a chance for 
going forward with this business idea.”

After carefully assessing the market, 
Coumba approached NovoBanco in 2004 
to get a credit to launch the business. 
She has since been granted three loans 
totaling $80,000.

 “This was exactly the kind of help I needed 
to really develop my business,” she says. 
Loans allowed her to purchase an oven, 
other key equipment, raw materials and 
fuel to expand the business. Organizações 
Sandeleji got a contract with a major 
supermarket in Luanda and has become 
the market’s primary cookie supplier.

Coumba says she is making a profit of 
$60,000 to $70,000 a year, allowing her 
to send her kids to school, contribute to 
the family’s well-being and expand the 
business. With the demand for bakery 
products booming, Coumba is planning to 
open a new branch. She initially had two 
people working with her. “Today, I have 

Strengthening Community 
Leadership: The Chevron 
Management Institute 

Luis Moreno
Executive President of Banauge 
Caracas, Venezuela 

Chevron Management Institute (CMI) spon-
sors leadership and management skills 
training for nonprofit leaders. Since 1996, 
CMI has trained more than 400 leaders 
from around the world. The curriculum 
includes 360-degree feedback, practices 
of exemplary leadership and personal 
coaching. CMI also serves as a forum for 
attendees to learn from one another.

Luis Moreno is the executive president 
of Banauge, a nonprofit organization in 
Caracas that provides lending and training 
to microentrepreneurs in the poorer dis-
trict of Venezuela’s capital. Moreno credits 
his attendance at the 2007 CMI in Caracas 
with helping him turn Banauge into a learn-
ing organization. “We learned about the 
power of example we have as leaders,” he 
explains, “and how a leader who encour-
ages confidence and teamwork will build 

an organizational climate that will lead to 
success for management and the organiza-
tion as a whole.”

Dr. Michele Rogers attended the CMI pro-
gram in California in September 2008. An 
active volunteer, she was impressed with 
the range of practical tools she could apply. 
The 360 Leadership Review, whereby col-
leagues anonymously comment on their 
peers’ leadership skills, was particularly 
helpful. “We all think we are good leaders,” 
she says. “So it’s good to see how others 
perceive your leadership abilities. People 
said I should trust and delegate more, that 
I could share goals and incorporate their 
suggestions. So that’s my focus: Enabling 
others to act. Because of CMI, I am delegat-
ing, involving others and building their 
confidence to carry out decisions. This is 
one way I am becoming a better leader.”

28 employees on the payroll,” she says. 
“No way would I have achieved this success 
without the help from NovoBanco.” 

Disaster Relief

Chevron Humankind 
In 2008, Chevron introduced a new com-
munity involvement program that replaced 
four existing programs for U.S.-based 
employees and retirees. Called “Chevron 
Humankind,” the program complements 
our global community investments and 
builds on the company’s belief that mean-
ingful partnerships can help improve our 
communities. It includes company match-
ing of participants’ financial contributions 
to U.S.-based nonprofit organizations, 
grants for volunteer time, and company-
sponsored volunteer programs. In 2008, 
U.S. employees and retirees recorded 
more than 110,000 hours of volunteer-
ing through Humankind, and program 
participants and the company contributed 
$20 million to advance the work of non-
profit  organizations.

Employee Volunteers: Responding to 
Hurricanes on the Gulf Coast
In 2008, Chevron employees helped their 
communities recover from disasters. 
Employees at Chevron’s lubricants plant in 
Port Arthur, Texas, pitched in to help those 
affected by storm damage when flooding 
caused by Hurricane Ike temporarily shut 
down the facility. Coordinating efforts with 
local authorities, rotating teams of volunteer 
employees assisted elderly homeowners 
and others not able to help themselves. 
Over two months, the  employees supported 
53 households, clearing downed trees, 
installing temporary roofing, and remov-
ing carpeting, flooring and other items in 
floodwater-damaged homes.

Chevron committed $3 million to support 
recovery efforts in communities affected 
by Hurricanes Gustav, Hanna and Ike on 
the U.S. Gulf Coast and in the Caribbean. 
We contributed to the American Red Cross, 
Save the Children, Feeding America (for-
merly America’s Second Harvest) and the 
Pan American Development Foundation. 
Our funding was directed toward meeting 
basic needs for thousands of displaced 
residents, providing food, water, medical 
equipment, temporary roofing materials, 
portable generators, diapers and other 
necessities. We gave gasoline cards to vol-
unteers on emergency response teams.

Cyclone Nargis struck Myanmar on May 2, 
2008, causing widespread destruction 
along the country’s southern coast 
and southeast regions. Chevron made 
a $2 million contribution divided among 
the International Federation of the Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies, Save 
the Children, International Organization 
for Migration, Mercy Corps, and Pact. 
The  organizations all had a presence in 
Myanmar prior to the cyclone and were 
able to provide access to basic human 
needs and other relief to affected com-
munities. They provided food, water, 
shelter materials, hygiene kits, health 
care, and cash grants for rehabilitation 
and agricultural activities. Chevron 
employees throughout its Asia South 
business units followed with a donation 
of $7,992, which Chevron matched with 
an additional $50,000.

is located. The earthquake left more than 
80,000 people dead or missing and left 
millions homeless. After the quake, Chevron 
immediately contributed $1.4 million to sup-
port disaster relief efforts. Also, Chevron 
employees throughout China and other 
Asia South business units donated $20,729, 
which Chevron matched with an additional 
$50,000. The total donation of $1.47 million 
was transferred to the Red Cross of Dazhou 
city and is being used to support the recon-
struction of schools, hospitals and other 
public utilities in the local communities. 

On May 12, 2008, a 7.9-magnitude earth-
quake struck Sichuan Province in Central 
China, where our Chuandongbei project 

Above: Yangon, Myanmar, after Cyclone 
Nargis.

Above: In Songkhla, Thailand, students at the Wattammakote Primary School participate 
in a Chevron-supported, 12-school waste management project. The students collect rubbish 
that the school then sells for recycling. The project, though supervised by a teacher, is run 
by the children, who weigh and log what is collected and keep the accounts.

31

Shaping the Future Development of Aceh 

September 8, 2008, was the first day of 
classes at the newly constructed Politeknik 
Aceh in Banda Aceh, Indonesia, where 30 
teachers and staff welcomed 240 students, 
25 percent of them women, to the voca-
tional training institute. The polytechnic 
will grant full diploma degrees in applied 
engineering and technology fields that cor-
respond with local industry needs and are 
critical to the long-term reconstruction and 
development of the province following the 
2004 tsunami.

Politeknik Aceh builds on the success of 
Politeknik Caltex Riau, which opened in 
2001 to offer degrees in engineering, tele-
communications and computer science. 
The Aceh polytechnic marks the comple-
tion of a $16 million partnership with the 

government of Indonesia, the local govern-
ment of Aceh Province, the Rehabilitation 
and Reconstruction Agency for Aceh and 
Nias, and the United States Agency for 
International Development.

Chevron spent roughly $6 million on the 
polytechnic, fully funding the construc-
tion of the facility. Chevron contributed a 
total of $14.7 million for disaster recovery, 
which included the funding for the poly-
technic and roughly $9 million to support 
long-term economic development and 
sustainable growth initiatives. In addition, 
Chevron leveraged these contributions 
with about $15 million in partner fund-
ing. For example, we partnered with 
Mercy Corps on the Aceh Barat Business 
Recovery program, which created access 

to financial services in 100 communities — 
including 1,089 loans valued at more than 
$80,000 to project beneficiaries — through 
microfinance institution partners. An 
important outcome of the project was the 
improved capacity and functionality of 
partner institutions, a necessary factor 
in sustaining the transformation of these 
devastated regions.

More than 100,000 people in Aceh have 
been helped by the company’s efforts.

Above, left: The newly constructed 
Politeknik Aceh grants degrees in applied 
engineering and technology. Right: This 
member of the fourth graduating class 
at Politeknik Caltex Riau now works as a 
telecommunications engineer.

Transformative Projects

 “The more holistic and systemic approach 
to community engagement that Chevron 
is developing through programs such 
as the Angola Partnership Initiative and 
the Aceh Recovery Initiative offers some 
valuable lessons, both for other corporate 
responsibility initiatives and the develop-
ment community more broadly. Many 
corporate community engagement pro-
grams are focused on individual projects 
and issues and tend to be transactional 

rather than transformative in nature. 
Implementing a more systems-based 
approach requires a variety of different 
but integrated projects; a challeng-
ing combination of diverse partners, 
from national governments and donor 
 agencies to other companies, NGOs and 
community-based organizations; and a 
focus on both short-term outputs and 
long-term local capacity building and 
institution strengthening. None of this is 

easy — either to execute or to evaluate — 
and yet such approaches offer one of the 
best hopes for transforming local situa-
tions from high levels of poverty to more 
sustained development.” 

Jane Nelson, Director 
Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative 
Kennedy School of Government 
Harvard University

32

Continuous Improvement: Evaluating Our Community 
Engagement Initiatives in the Niger Delta 

Between 2005 and 2006, Chevron Nigeria 
Ltd. (CNL) signed Global Memoranda of 
Understanding (GMOUs) with eight clusters 
of communities and their state govern-
ments in the Niger Delta. The GMOUs 
are intended to empower communities 
by promoting responsible, participa-
tory development; improve relationships 
between CNL and community stakehold-
ers; and foster collaboration in the Niger 
Delta region. The GMOUs resulted in 
increased dialogue and improved issues 
management between the company and 
the community.

Shifting from a more philanthropic to a sus-
tainable community development model, 
the GMOUs are intended to shift ownership 
and control of Chevron-funded programs 
to the communities. The participatory 
partnerships formed in this process include 
a range of stakeholders in the planning, 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation 
of programs in a transparent manner. 

Seventy-one settlements and approximately 
600,000 residents, are represented by 
Regional Development Councils (RDCs), with 
membership drawn from the communities. 
In some cases, groups that were engaged in 
armed conflict a few years prior now work 
in collaboration within the councils to define 
community needs and execute plans. To 
foster collaboration and effective  operation, 

CNL provides training in planning, adminis-
tration and funds management.

By 2008, the councils had completed 
sustainable-livelihood assessments, which 
were created with community input and 
document such information as demo-
graphics, income sources and patterns of 
conflict. Also by 2008, many projects had 
been implemented or were in development, 
such as water and rural electrification, 
education programs and microcredit lend-
ing to women. Since signing the GMOUs, 
CNL has disbursed more than $32 million 
to the councils.

The first GMOU expired in 2008, and most 
of the remaining seven will be renegoti-
ated in 2009. Against this backdrop, CNL 
undertook a comprehensive participa-
tory evaluation of the process to better 
understand its successes and areas for 
improvement.

This model invited those involved in the 
GMOUs — including community representa-
tives, RDC members, Nigerian government 
officials, local nongovernmental organi-
zations and CNL — to jointly design the 
evaluation and analyze the data with 
consultants from three organizations: 
Consensus Building Institute, Search for 
Common Ground, and Research Triangle 
Institute International. A data-collection 

The Structure and Purpose of 
Regional Development Councils

The RDCs signed agreements to develop and manage initiatives in health, education, 
village infrastructure and livelihood creation. Each council is:

•  Composed of multiple villages.

•  Supported by a governance structure that includes oversight, conﬂ ict resolution and 

accountability.

•  Supported by a multistakeholder committee of village representatives, government 

ofﬁ cials, nongovernmental organizations and CNL.

•  Responsible for designing and managing its own development program based on a 
sustainable-livelihood assessment and project prioritization done at the outset. 

team conducted interviews and focus 
groups with more than 1,000 individuals 
over a five-week period in all five states 
where the RDCs are present.

The evaluation surfaced a range of views, 
from positive comments about the impacts 
and processes to concerns over the equi-
table distribution of benefits. Broadly, the 
GMOUs were recognized as a useful mecha-
nism that should be continued and could 
be improved. Many stakeholders believed 
the GMOUs were effective at promoting 
sustainable development, transparency 
and community empowerment. A large 
number of stakeholders felt CNL’s relation-
ship with the communities had changed for 
the better. 

Stakeholders felt that additional fund-
ing from other sources would become 
necessary to meet future needs. Although 
CNL and the Nigerian National Petroleum 
Corp. have been the sole funders, it is 
part of each council’s mandate to diver-
sify the funding base. CNL is helping 
secure external funding partners — a 
significant challenge given the instability 
of the region. 

Stakeholders remarked that coordination 
with government and other develop-
ment organizations could be improved 
to strengthen government support and 
reduce the likelihood of project duplication. 

Some communities did not understand the 
GMOU process or the roles and respon-
sibilities of council leadership. Outreach 
mechanisms could be enhanced by imple-
menting the town halls, annual meetings 
and other mechanisms built into the proc-
ess. Additionally, the evaluation surfaced a 
need for greater inclusion of women.

While the evaluation indicated that 
some stakeholders were concerned with 
the proc ess, many closely involved had 
endorsed it. A number of suggestions to 
improve the model are being incorporated 
into GMOU renegotiations by CNL and 
other participants. 

33

show strong, continued improvement. For 
the seventh consecutive year, we improved 
our Days Away From Work Rate, which 
makes Chevron one of the safest energy 
companies in our peer group. We are now 
four times safer as a company than we 
were in 2003. Our Pascagoula, Mississippi, 
refinery and our Australasia and Europe 
business units recorded no Days Away 
From Work injuries in 2008, a period cover-
ing more than 20 million hours without a 
recordable incident.

Through our Operational Excellence 
Management System, we continue to 
improve our formal processes and struc-
tures that support safe operations, not just 
for our nearly 62,000 direct employees 
but also for the almost 200,000 contrac-
tors who work at Chevron sites on any 
given day. We strengthened our Incident 
Investigation and Learning program, 
for example, by adding a focus on high-
learning-value events. A team examines 

Below: In 2008, Chevron provided HIV/AIDS 
awareness and prevention training to 
4,592 employees around the globe. World 
AIDS Day events took place at more than 
25 Chevron facilities in 11 countries.

Workforce
Building Global Capacity

Chevron makes investments in equipment, facilities, raw 
 materials and people to achieve business success. With long-
term demand for oil and other energy sources expected to 
grow, we are investing in our nearly 62,000-strong workforce 
in more than 100 countries. We help our employees as well as 
our contract workforce develop their full capabilities, and we 
make their health and safety our top priority.

This is not only the right thing to do, it is 
essential to our success if we are to attract 
top-quality employees in a very competi-
tive industry. With a presence in more than 
100 countries that span the globe, our 
workforce is an essential investment in 
our success.

We continue to experience a transforma-
tion in our workforce. In 2008, about 
54 percent of employees were hired outside 
the United States, compared with 30 per-
cent in 1999. This requires that we be adept 
at recruiting and hiring locally — because 
a local workforce helps us understand, 
connect to, and meet the challenges and 
opportunities that are unique to each 
community where we operate.

Investing in Our Workforce 
We invest in the development and train-
ing of our workforce around the world to 
enrich personal learning and continually 
build local organizational capability.

In 2008, approximately 2,300 employees 
were active participants in Horizons, an 
accelerated development program for 
technical employees who have less than 
five years of industry experience.

This five-year investment, during which 
employees receive on-the-job training, 
cross-functional experience and technical 
mentoring, is designed to sharpen their 
competencies and broaden their exposure 
to our business. Through this program, 
which was expanded from its U.S. roots 
in 2007 to build technical capacity in the 
international workforce, we are building 
the foundation of a global workforce that 
is prepared to meet our growth opportuni-
ties. Currently, there are participants in 
26 countries and almost half are outside 
the United States. Non-U.S. countries with 

34

a large number of participants include 
Angola, Indonesia, Nigeria and Thailand.

A second component of our technical 
development program, Pathways, was 
launched in 2008. This employee-driven 
career development program is designed to 
expand the technical and professional skills 
of employees and, in turn, strengthen the 
long-term capability of the company. More 
than 3,000 employees enrolled in 2008.

Diversity 
Diversity is one of Chevron’s broad set 
of criteria used to measure progress in 
attracting, developing and retaining a 
talented, global workforce. A diverse work-
force is a strategic advantage, contributing 
a greater variety of ideas, experience, 
creativity and innovation and grounding 
us in the communities where we operate.

To foster awareness and promote the 
benefits of our diverse employee popula-
tion, Chevron has 11 officially recognized 
employee networks. These networks have 
more than 18,000 Chevron employees, who 
support mentoring and lead career devel-
opment activities, diversity fairs, cultural 
events and community outreach. 

Working Safely Every Day 
Employee health and safety lie at the foun-
dation of our efforts to build a talented, 
dynamic workforce. A fully productive 
employee must be safe and secure first. 
The health and safety of our employees 
and contractors hold critical value for our 
business. We are investing in this “human 
energy” resource through our continu-
ing efforts to make processes safer and 
provide all workers with the tools and 
information they need to do their jobs 
right every time. Over the past 10 years, 
Chevron’s efforts to create a safety culture 

Total Recordable Incident Rate 1
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Lost-Time Incident Frequency 1
Incidents per million work hours

Days Away From Work Rate 1
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
  Workforce 
0.51  0.41  0.42  0.35  0.36
  Benchmark  0.69  0.84  0.59  0.56  N/A

2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
  Workforce 
0.94  0.60  0.50  0.37  0.27
  Benchmark  0.97  0.78  0.72  0.65  N/A

2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
  Workforce 
0.18  0.12  0.09  0.07  0.05
  Benchmark  0.19  0.15  0.14  0.13  N/A

Employees  0.46  0.38  0.34  0.40  0.31
Benchmark  0.66  0.61  0.51  0.49  N/A

Employees  1.07  0.84  0.41  0.48  0.33
Benchmark  0.95  0.77  0.64  0.57  N/A

Employees  0.21  0.16  0.08  0.09  0.07
Benchmark  0.19  0.15  0.13  0.11  N/A

Contractors  0.53  0.42  0.46  0.34  0.37
Benchmark  0.73  0.67  0.64  0.61  N/A

Contractors  0.87  0.49  0.53  0.33  0.25
Benchmark  0.95  0.79  0.78  0.71  N/A

Contractors  0.16  0.10  0.10  0.06  0.05
Benchmark  0.19  0.15  0.15  0.14  N/A

Work-Related Fatalities

Global Diversity

Women in total workforce 
Women represented at midlevel and above 
Women and non-Caucasian men represented at senior executive level 

2007 
22.4% 
10.6% 
24.5% 

2008
22.7%
11.5%
24.8%

Global Workforce at Year-End 2008

Geographic breakdown

At year-end 2008, Chevron’s worldwide 
staffing was 61,675 (excluding approxi-
mately 5,000 service station employees). 
This represents an increase of 4.25 per-
cent over the previous year. U.S. workers 
numbered 28,226, and approximately 
13 percent were represented by unions.

  North America  
  47.3% 

  Asia-Pacific 
  25.7%

  Africa 
  14.5%

   Europe/Middle East 
8.2%

   South America 
4.3%

  Workforce 

2004  2005  2006  2007  2008
5

12 

17 

17 

6 

Employees 

Contractors 

2 

15 

2 

4 

1 

3 

11 

14 

0

5

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics

Minorities among total employees 
Women among total employees 
Minorities among executives and senior managers 
Minorities among first- and midlevel managers 
Women among executives and senior managers 
Women among first- and midlevel managers 
Minorities among professionals 
Women among professionals 

1  American Petroleum Institute data are used as industry benchmarks. 2008 benchmark data were not available at the time of publication.

2007 
33.9% 
29.0% 
9.6% 
26.5% 
14.1% 
25.6% 
29.1% 
32.0% 

2008
35.3%
29.2%
11.0%
26.9%
15.0%
24.7%
30.6%
32.4%

35

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all recent major incidents regularly 
throughout the year. If identified as a 
high-learning-value event, the incident is 
analyzed for root causes and the results 
are communicated throughout the 
organization. 

We continued to focus on improving 
Process Safety Management at our facili-
ties during 2008. We collected data on 
Loss of Containment, a new metric that 
will help us improve our performance. We 
also continued in-depth analysis of major 
incidents to determine the root causes, 
communicate the lessons learned and iden-
tify recommended actions. As a result of 
these studies, we are emphasizing opera-
tional discipline to ensure we have the 
systems, processes and behaviors aligned 
so that every member of the workforce 
carries out every task the right way, every 
time. In this program, the responsibilities 
of management and workers are clarified 
and reinforced.

If a worker feels that he or she does not 
have the tools or knowledge to do the 
job safely, then the worker is required 
to stop work, consult with the supervi-
sor and fix the deviation. Management is 
responsible for enabling and empower-
ing every employee to develop his or her 
own operational discipline. We developed 
communication tools for spreading this 

message throughout the corporation, 
ranging from “safety moments” to in-depth 
workshops. While locations can customize 
the tools to fit their own needs, a key goal is 
to promote safety in our processes by stand-
ardizing the way a process is conducted, 
whether the operation occurs in Angola, 
Brazil, Kazakhstan or the United States.

In 2008, we achieved record safety results 
for the year, with a Days Away From Work 
Rate of 0.05, a fivefold improvement over 
the 0.25 rate in 2002.

Establishing Common 
Safety Practices Among Chevron 
Staff and Contractors
Chevron Downstream established a com-
mon safety system across all sites, the 
Loss Prevention System™. It emphasizes 
the need for each employee to assess 
risks before doing a task by asking a 
simple question: What’s the worst thing 
that could happen to me in this situa-
tion? Employees should then make sure 
they have the right tools and knowledge 
to prevent any unacceptable outcomes. 
Workers are empowered to stop what 
they’re doing if their self-assessment 
reveals that they don’t have proper safety 
equipment or if they are not sure of the 
risks inherent in the task. As a representa-
tive of one of our major contractors, Daniel 
Breaux from Atlantic Scaffolding is helping 

Above: Chevron’s cardiovascular program takes a preventive approach to  improving 
employee health. Chevron’s John Huey participates in an exercise class led by Rosie 
Guerrero at the Chevron Fitness Center in San Ramon, California.

36

Motor Vehicle Safety
Company motor vehicle incidents per million 
miles driven

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:46)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:45)

(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:46)(cid:44)

(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:47)(cid:41)

(cid:39)(cid:37)(cid:47)(cid:41)

Data are based on a revised classification 
system adopted by the International Association 
of Oil & Gas Producers. Chevron has tracked 
motor vehicle incidents since 2002.

deploy the system at our Pascagoula, 
Mississippi, refinery. 

Breaux emphasizes how valuable the 
system can be for a very large facility with 
multiple contractors onsite: “I’ve been at 
the Pascagoula Refinery for about two 
years. The Loss Prevention System™ is 
beneficial to everyone who works inside 
a refinery, not only Chevron personnel 
but contractors as well. It gives us the 
opportunity to all talk from the same page. 
Instead of five different companies using 
five different safety systems, we’re all using 
the same tools. Once we’re inside this gate, 
we’re all in this together — I don’t want to 
see anybody get hurt.” 

Our Drive to Improve Motor 
Vehicle Safety 
Vehicle incidents are the largest cause of 
fatalities within the oil and gas industry. 
We are working to improve our workforce’s 
awareness of road safety whether they are 
driving on the job or commuting.

In 2008, we completed a study of 87 major 
motor vehicle incidents that occurred in 
2006 and 2007 across the corporation, 
with the goal of identifying trends and 
common root causes. We began com-
municating the findings throughout the 
company during the last quarter of 2008, 
and we are implementing updated training 
tools designed to address common root 
causes of incidents, such as excessive 
speeding or miscalculating situational 
risks. The study also identified improve-
ments to some of our existing driver 
training programs and contractor perform-
ance monitoring procedures, which we 
are implementing as a result. Revamped 

training and driver monitoring activities 
are expected to continue during 2009.

Helping Employees Balance Busy Lives
Chevron has a variety of programs to help 
its workforce maintain productive work and 
personal lives. 

In the United States, many employees are 
eligible to work compressed schedules, 
working longer stretches over fewer days 
with an additional day off per week or two-
week period. U.S.-based employees also 
have access to elder-care specialists, who 
can provide support in assessing service 
needs and in-home respite care.

We provide mental health counseling, drug 
treatment and referral services in 14 coun-
tries where we operate. Support programs 
are currently under development in China 
and Kazakhstan.

Building Healthy Communities
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause 
of death in the United States, claiming 
more than 600,000 lives in the country 
each year and millions more worldwide. 
The World Health Organization reports 
that by the year 2020, heart disease will 
surpass infectious disease as the world’s 
leading cause of death and disability, pos-
ing a threat to our global workforce. 

During 2008, Chevron continued to 
implement its new cardiovascular health 
program for employees. This program takes 
a preventive approach by giving employees 
the tools and incentives to understand their 
own risk factors for heart disease and to 
take steps that will improve their cardio-
vascular health. Employees who choose 
to participate in the program take an 
assessment asking them about their health 
indicators. The program then evaluates 
their risk factors and makes personalized 
recommendations on how to lower risks. 
It offers online self-help resources, educa-
tional materials and even a customized 
mentoring program with a health coach, 
all of which are offered free of charge. 

The program was piloted in Nigeria, in 
the Philippines, and in the United States 
at the Pascagoula Refinery. Beginning in 
September 2008, the program was opened 
to all U.S.-payroll employees; it will roll out 
globally in 2009. Our investment in the 

Arrive Alive Initiative:
Focus on Community Road Safety

Below, left: In Guatemala, after Arrive Alive added speed-limit signs, school-zone mark-
ings and crosswalks near a school, accidents there reduced from four or five a month to 
zero. Right: On the road from Entebbe to Kampala, Uganda, four to seven deaths occur 
weekly on this stretch of road, where pedestrians walk on the side and motorcyclists 
ride without helmets. Arrive Alive is working in parts of the country to identify areas of 
concern and recommend improvements.

cardiovascular health of employees, we 
firmly believe, will lead to increased pro-
ductivity, reduced lost-work time and more 
motivated employees. 

In some areas where Chevron employees 
and families live, medical services are 
severely lacking. We have an opportunity 
to improve community health significantly 
in those operating locations. Improving the 
health status of the whole community has 
direct, positive effects on our workers and 
their families as well as on our potential 
future workforce.

Our approach to community health 
continues to evolve and take advantage 
of synergies between many existing 
programs. This year, a major focus is 
on developing a holistic approach that 
responds to community needs. We are 
looking to bring efforts in HIV/AIDS, 
malaria and tuberculosis together in a 
coordinated way that addresses local 
needs and includes environmental, social 
and economic aspects. 

For instance, around our Nigerian 
operations, we have conducted HIV/AIDS 
awareness, prevention and treatment 
activities since 2001 and, in some locations, 
supported anti-malaria efforts through 
community medical clinics. During 2008, 
we worked with partners in the Corporate 
Alliance on Malaria in Africa to develop a 
strategic business plan based on a vision 
of integrated support for sustainable 
community health. We plan to leverage 
our involvement in the country coordinat-
ing mechanisms — steering committees 
for each country where The Global Fund 
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria is 
active — to test the feasibility and effective-
ness of this integrated community health 
approach. Chevron has already been 
invited to participate in the coordinating 
mechanisms for Nigeria.

Focus on Community Road Safety 
Chevron workers must travel through 
the streets of their communities every day 
to arrive at work or to return home to fam-
ily. Our goal is that each of them arrives 

37

HENAAC Honors 
Chevron Engineer 

Carlos Enllanche, lead design engineer 
at Chevron’s El Segundo Refinery, won 
the HENAAC award for Most Promising 
Engineer or Scientist — Undergraduate. 
The HENAAC awards honor talented 
Hispanic-American engineers, scientists 
and technology experts. A core mission 
of HENAAC is to showcase outstanding 
role models to inspire young people to 
pursue careers in technology and to moti-
vate professionals to continue to connect 
with the Hispanic community. Enllanche 
is a model ambassador for that mission, 
mentoring student engineering interns at 
Chevron and tutoring adults and school-
children in math and science in the Los 
Angeles community.

Carlos Enllanche
Chevron Lead Design Engineer
El Segundo Reﬁ nery, California

unharmed — while making the whole 
community safer through our Arrive Alive 
initiative. The aim of Arrive Alive is to help 
key stakeholders in countries where we 
operate eliminate fatalities and injuries 
among the public as well as among Chevron 
employees and contractors. Now operating 
in six countries (Bangladesh, El Salvador, 
Guatemala, Nigeria, South Africa and 
Uganda), Arrive Alive forms coalitions 
within each nation to work collaboratively 
toward road safety improvements. Chevron 
provides initial funding and organization, 
while other coalition partners — such as 
municipal governments, public safety 
officials, trade unions, commercial busi-
nesses and nonprofit groups — participate 
in identifying, developing and implement-
ing programs in advocacy and education; 
enforcing existing laws; and correcting 
dangerous intersections.

Over a two-year period in our well-
 established Guatemala program, the 
coalition’s actions to make hot spots safer 
reduced the number of incidents at those 
locations by almost 97 percent. Two new 
coalitions, in Bangladesh and El Salvador, 
began building partnerships and raising 
awareness of the extent of motor vehi-
cle danger. 

Luis Castellanos helped get the Arrive 
Alive initiative rolling in Guatemala and 
was the local program manager there 
before relocating to Chevron’s head-
quarters in San Ramon, California. While 
Castellanos was working in Guatemala, the 
Arrive Alive coalition worked to reduce 
hazards at several hot spots — including 
one intersection where his wife had experi-
enced a car incident in 2005.

 “No one was hurt, but my wife was crying 
and was very upset. It was a bad intersec-
tion,” Castellanos reports.

By implementing some fairly simple 
changes, such as painting new lane divid-
ers on the road, the number of incidents at 
that hot spot declined dramatically. While 
mishaps were common at that intersec-
tion before the changes were made, during 
the 2007–2008 reporting period, only one 
incident occurred there. 

Castellanos sums up the importance of 
Arrive Alive like this: “My son is learning 

38

to drive now, and so I’m very aware of 
all the dangers we are exposed to out 
there. With the Arrive Alive program and 
our local coalitions, we are saving lives by 
what we do. And you never know whether 
that life you save may be someone very 
close to you.” 

McKinley Mine Donation to 
Navajo Code Talkers Association
Chevron understands that its operations 
may have impacts on the local commu-
nities long after production ceases. In 
such instances, the company seeks to 
implement closure plans that reflect the 
needs of the communities as identified 
by affected stakeholders. 

One example is the donation of land 
by Chevron’s McKinley Mine in rural 
New Mexico, United States, to the local 
Navajo community.

Operating since 1962, McKinley is a 
surface mine that produces coal for 
electricity generation. Approximately 
95 percent of the mine’s employees are 
Navajo, and 60 percent of its permitted 
area is on Navajo land. To date, McKinley 
has mined more than 170 million tons 
of coal and has reclaimed more than 
12,000 acres (4,900 hectares) of dis-
turbed land. Upon closure, the remainder 
of mine property also will be reclaimed.

After more than 40 years as part of the 
community, the McKinley Mine is reach-
ing the end of its coal reserve. McKinley 
has a long-term relationship and commit-
ment to the community, so was agreeable 
when the Navajo Code Talkers Association 
approached the mine about a possible 
donation of a 230-acre (93-hectare) tract 
of land to serve as a site for a Navajo Code 
Talker museum and visitor center.

The Navajo Code Talkers, during World 
War II, fashioned a difficult-to-decipher 
communications code based on their 
Navajo language. Today, almost all remain-
ing Code Talkers live near mine property, 
and a number of mine employees are 
closely related to them.

For McKinley employees, this donation 
is a lasting legacy to honor the commu-
nity that has been instrumental in the 
mine’s success.

Supply Chain
Expanding Opportunity, Sharing Best Practices

Building capacity and expanding business opportunities for 
local suppliers are other ways Chevron promotes responsible 
economic development in the countries where the company 
operates. Our supplier initiatives grow and diversify the local 
economic base for communities and national economies 
by  creating new businesses, generating employment, and 
 promoting the transfer of appropriate technology and skills.

has deep roots as a national development 
partner in the country. We produce nearly 
half of the country’s crude oil. We also 
market lubricants throughout Indonesia 
and manage two geothermal projects on 
the island of Java. 

PT Chevron Pacific Indonesia began the 
Local Business Development program 
in 2001 to provide practical training, 
mentoring, and business opportunities 
for local companies and cooperatives. 
The program develops and enhances 
the capabilities of local entrepreneurs 
to become certified suppliers not only 
to Chevron but also to large Indonesian 
companies.

Since the program was launched, more 
than 700 small suppliers were certi-
fied, 2,400 contracts were awarded and 
approximately 6,000 jobs were created. In 
total, Chevron purchased $31.5 million in 
goods and services. The annual purchases 
increased from $1.5 million in 2001 to 
$7.1 million in 2008.

minority-owned businesses and $450 mil-
lion with women-owned businesses.

In July, Chevron hosted supplier forums 
and diversity fairs in Houston, Texas, and 
San Ramon, California. The goal of these 
events, which together attracted more 
than 150 suppliers, was to educate our 
large, traditional suppliers on our subcon-
tracting processes and to promote diversity 
in subcontracting.

Indonesia: Empowering Local Small 
Companies and Cooperatives
Operating in Indonesia since 1924, Chevron 

Growing Local Business 

Sandra Floyd had a professional corporate 
career for 25 years before deciding to start 
her own business. She founded OUTSOURCE 
Consulting Services, Inc., in 1994 and, for 
more than five years, has been supplying 
professional contract staff to Chevron. One 
of the goals of her company is to provide 
businesses with top-quality talent from 
the local community and create jobs in the 
inner city. Floyd also has deep ties to the 

community and feels that it’s important to 
give back. She and her staff donate their 
time and resources to help others. 

Sandra Floyd, Owner
OUTSOURCE Consulting Services, Inc.
Oakland, California

   Visit with local supplier Sandra Floyd:

Chevron.com/SupplierDiversity

39

We think it is important that our supplier 
base be reflective of our customers and 
the markets we serve. We also strive to 
be a partner of choice, and this includes 
partnering with businesses large and small 
to build stable economies through the 
creation of jobs. In 2008, we purchased 
approximately $45 billion in goods and 
services from suppliers and contractors 
ranging from large multinationals to locally 
based small and medium-size businesses.

Building capacity has the dual effects of 
empowering local suppliers and supporting 
the sustainability of their businesses. Our 
engagement with suppliers includes sharing 
our skills and know-how, delivering practical 
training and awareness programs, and pro-
moting supplier diversity and engagement.

We help our suppliers develop their 
capabilities in a variety of ways. For 
example, Chevron’s engineering team in 
Lagos, Nigeria, works side by side with 
engineering services contractors to share 
knowledge, skills and good practices. 
Lead engineers from our company embed 
themselves in supplier firms, helping the 
firms strengthen their capacity in process 
management, mechanical and structural 
engineering, and quality control. 

Promoting Supplier Diversity 
and Engagement 
Through our U.S. supplier diversity and 
small business program, we work with 
small, minority- and women-owned busi-
nesses to develop innovative, cost-effective 
solutions. We believe that a supplier net-
work reflecting the communities where we 
operate creates value for our business and 
supports local economic development.

In 2008, we spent approximately $2.9 billion 
on goods and services provided by small 
and medium-size businesses in the United 
States. We also spent $515 million with 

One supplier beneficiary is Cauliflower 
Trimajaya, PT, a building maintenance, 
landscaping and contract labor company 
with 73 permanent employees. Cauliflower 
joined the business development program 
in 2001 and received training in such busi-
ness basics as procurement, work safety, 
project management, financial adminis-
tration and business ethics. From a small 
initial contract awarded by Chevron in 
2001, the company was winning contracts 
in the range of $20 million seven years 
later. It continues to benefit from training 
we provided. In 2008, improved adminis-
trative and financial management systems 
helped the company pursue new contract 
tender opportunities. Through Chevron’s 
contractor health and safety management 
program, it is putting standardized health, 
environmental and safety systems in place.

It’s a win-win proposition, says H. Bastian, 
Cauliflower’s director and owner. “As a 
business partner with Chevron Pacific 
Indonesia,” he says, “we are improving 
our capabil ities and, through that, improv-
ing the opportunities for everyone in our 
community.” 

Because of the success of companies such 
as Cauliflower, Chevron Pacific Indonesia’s 
program won a Padma Community Develop-
ment Award in 2008 from the Indonesian 
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources. 
The award is given to individuals, social 
organizations and companies that make a 
significant contribution to community devel-
opment in resource-based communities.

Developing 
Local Suppliers 

 “Local content” is an increasingly impor-
tant part of Chevron’s global business. In 
2008, Chevron developed Local Content 
Guidelines to align business units along a 
set of common goals and actions to sup-
port the company’s commercial interests 
and corporate responsibility commitments. 
The guidelines aim to promote sustainable, 
high-quality local capacity and capability. 
This not only provides business value to 
Chevron but also supports local economic 
growth and workforce development.

40

Above: Vladimir Litvinov, deputy chief engineer at Byelkamit — which participated in 
Tengizchevroil’s local-supplier development program — is overseeing construction of a 
30,000-barrel storage tank at the Tengiz oil field. Byelkamit started its business with an 
office in a shipping container and now has a staff of 500 and supplies various companies 
in the region. Chevron is a 50 percent partner in Tengizchevroil.

U.S. Small Business and Supplier 
Diversity Spending (US$ millions)

Small business 

Women-owned 

Minority-owned 

2004 

1,360 

222 

226 

2005 

1,800 

258 

310 

2006 

2,800 

373 

432 

2007 

2,886 

464 

434 

2008

2,920

450

515

Revenue Transparency 
in Resource-Rich Countries 

More than half of the world’s population lives in countries rich in oil, gas and miner-
als. These resource-rich countries have the ability to generate revenues to facilitate 
development and reduce poverty. Chevron believes that disclosure of revenues 
received by governments and payments made by extractive industries to govern-
ments could lead to improved governance in resource-rich countries. The transparent 
and accurate accounting of these funds contributes to stable, long-term investment 
climates, economic growth and the well-being of communities.

Our commitment to promoting revenue transparency is reflected in our participation 
in the multistakeholder Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Chevron, 
which continues to support the efforts of the Oslo-based EITI Secretariat, served in 
2008 as an alternate member of the EITI board and in 2009 was elected to serve as 
a full member of the board. Twenty-five countries are now undertaking EITI’s external 
validation process over the next two years to ensure that they are implementing the 
program according to agreed-upon standards. Through EITI, Chevron is working with 
a number of these governments to promote implementation. Azerbaijan was the first 
such country to do so. 

 
  
Human Rights
Our Commitment to Protecting Human Rights

We are committed to respecting human rights in the countries 
and communities where we operate. Because human rights 
issues cut across many aspects of our business, our commit-
ment is not based on a single activity but, rather, on the totality 
of our efforts — internally and externally. These include our poli-
cies, management practices, executive involvement, community 
programs, and participation in voluntary initiatives.

Our Values, Policies and Performance
Our support for human rights begins with 
The Chevron Way, a statement of values 
that guide our actions. Our values include 
integrity, trust, partnership, diversity, and 
protecting people and the environment. 

Our Human Rights Statement, adopted 
in 2006, reaffirms the manner in which 
we operate and is consistent with human 
rights principles applicable to business. We 
recognize the relevant ideals in the U.N. 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work. Our global HIV/AIDS 
policy affirms that employees suffering 
from or otherwise affected by HIV/AIDS are 
protected by the company’s existing poli-
cies on discrimination and harassment. Our 
Business Conduct and Ethics Code, which 
all employees must read and acknowledge, 
was updated in 2008 to incorporate our 
Human Rights Statement. 

We continue to reinforce human rights 
issues through education and computer-
based training. Throughout 2008, we 
deepened our dialogue with thought 
leaders — nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs), government and academia — on 
the appropriate role of business. We held a 
three-day workshop for our Global Security 
advisors that included emerging security 
and human rights issues.

Chevron has long supported the Leon H. 
Sullivan Foundation and endorsed the 
Global Sullivan Principles. The principles 
promote business support for human rights, 
economic justice, racial and gender equality, 
sustainable development, and a healthy 
environment. In 2008, Chevron spon-
sored the eighth Leon H. Sullivan Summit 
in Tanzania, and Vice Chairman Peter 
Robertson gave an address on the com-
pany’s efforts toward achieving sustainable 
growth by “helping others help themselves.”

Support for the Voluntary Principles 
on Security and Human Rights
In 2008, we released our Guidelines on 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights. The guidelines describe 
our operational framework for security 
where we operate and are consistent with 
the Voluntary Principles. Management 
in our country business units is required 
to implement the guidelines to fit local 
circumstances. 

Our business units are committed to 
supporting the Voluntary Principles in 
accordance with local laws and condi-
tions. In many areas where we operate, we 
communicate and reinforce the principles 
with host governments and their secu-
rity forces, and with private security with 
whom we sometimes work. We also have 
begun to include Voluntary Principles 
considerations in contractual agreements 
with private security groups. Our busi-
ness units participate in multistakeholder 
briefings and share practices regarding 
the principles with host governments, 
companies and NGOs.

The Voluntary Principles are not a panacea 
for security and human rights issues, but 
they are a building block on which progress 
is measured in increments. Their success 
cannot be guaranteed by a single actor but 
requires the concerted efforts of govern-
ment, companies and NGOs, aided by 
mutual support and reinforcement. 

Along with integrating the principles in 
our security and human rights processes 
internally, Chevron promotes the principles 
externally. We have participated in plenary 
meetings since 2004. We helped develop 
the formal criteria for participation in 
the Voluntary Principles, and we partici-
pate in a multistakeholder working group 
that is developing participant guidelines 
for reporting. We shared our experiences 
through participation in meetings with 

the U.S. State Department and in security 
and human rights workshops organized 
by the International Petroleum Industry 
Environmental Conservation Association, 
of which Chevron is a member.

Communities
Our community engagement programs 
are an integral part of our commitment 
to human rights and focus on improving 
access to basic needs, supporting edu-
cation and health care, and promoting 
economic livelihoods. By strengthening 
communities where we operate, we help 
empower individuals to realize their poten-
tial and pursue productive opportunities.

Chevron’s Social Impact Assessment (SIA) 
is part of the Environmental, Social and 
Health Impact Assessment performed on 
new capital projects. SIAs look at many 
types of social issues that potentially have 
human rights components. The subject 
matter is determined case by case, and 
may cover potential impacts on a broad 
range of issues, such as availability and 
access to food and shelter, family structure, 
relationships among groups, traditions, 
beliefs, cultural and faith-based practices, 
and cultural property. SIAs also include 
an understanding of the macro-level 
influences on local communities, such 
as national regulations concerning labor, 
elements of international standards, 
applicable laws and company policies.

Human Rights Campaign 
Recognizes Chevron

The Human Rights Campaign Foundation 
awarded Chevron a perfect score on its 
Corporate Equality Index for the fourth 
consecutive year. The foundation rated 
nearly 600 businesses on their policies 
and treatment of gay, lesbian, bisexual 
and transgender (GLBT) employees, 
consumers and investors. Chevron’s non-
discrimination policies, domestic-partner 
benefits, diversity training and PRIDE 
(Promote Respect, Inclusion and Dignity 
for Everyone) employee network were all 
factors in the 100 percent rating, recogniz-
ing Chevron as a best place to work. The 
Human Rights Campaign is the largest U.S. 
civil rights organization working toward 
GLBT equality.

41

Myanmar

Strengthening Community Responses to Disease

As one of four partners, Chevron has a 
minority, nonoperating interest in the 
Yadana gas field offshore Myanmar in the 
Andaman Sea and in a 249-mile (400-km) 
natural gas pipeline. The gas helps meet 
Southeast Asia’s demand for energy.

We continue to support the calls for a 
peaceful resolution to issues facing the 
country in a manner that respects the 
human rights of the people of Myanmar. 
We believe that social development and 
economic development are interrelated; 
and constructive engagement, together 
with development programs and support, 
will ultimately contribute to peace and 
prosperity for the people of Myanmar. 

In 2008, Chevron contributed $698,000, 
in full compliance with U.S. government 
laws and regulations, to the Yadana 
Project’s partner-funded community 
engagement projects focused on health 
and education. By  providing support for 
basic human needs, these efforts, we 
believe, contribute to greater stability 

and security. Since 2002, the project 
partners have been participants in the 
Corporate Engagement Project of CDA 
Collaborative Learning Projects, a U.S. 
nonprofit organization that has been 
visiting the pipeline area and publishing 
its independ ent observations. The most 
recent of its five reports was published 
in February 2008. Its reports are publicly 
available at CDAinc.com.

In addition, Chevron independently 
funds projects through Pact, an NGO 
that has been providing health, micro-
finance and other programs in Myanmar 
for 10 years. From 2003 through 2008, 
Chevron contributed $1,694,000 to 
the Pact health project Strengthening 
Community Response to Disease (SCR). 
In partnership with Chevron, SCR provides 
village-based workshops during which 
communities assess their existing com-
munity development situation, set goals 
for change and develop plans to address 
community-defined development priori-
ties. A second workshop assists villages 

in establishing locally financed health and 
development funds. Training is provided 
for funds management and for caretaking 
programs to help decrease the incidence of 
tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and malaria.

Through Chevron’s support since the 
beginning of the partnership and continu-
ing into 2010 for the current program 
phase, Pact will have done the following: 

•  Reached 1,058 villages, with an estimated 
population of approximately 1.2 million. 

•  Trained nearly 2,600 villagers in care-

taking programs.

•  Counseled hundreds of clients and 

tested them for HIV/AIDS, and distributed 
thousands of condoms.

•  Constructed more than 19,000 latrines in 

villages to combat diarrheal disease.

Since 2005, Village Health and Develop–
ment Fund amounts have grown from an 
average of $34 per village to $338.

 “When I went into early labor last year with 
my son, I was very scared because the 
midwife told me it was a dangerous birth 
and I needed to go to the clinic, which was 
more than an hour and a half away by car. 
We had no transport and no money to 
hire a vehicle. My mother took an emer-
gency loan from the Village Health and 
Development Fund, and we were able to 
deliver my son safely at the clinic. I am so 
thankful for my safe delivery and the sup-
port of my community! It makes me feel 
I have a safe place to raise my family.”

Ma Kyi Ma
Nyaung Pin San Village
Chauk Township, Myanmar

 “I think the SCR program sponsored by 
Chevron is about empowering the com-
munity to take responsibility for their own 
health and development. The program 
affects both communities and individuals 
as they gain confidence and learn strat-
egies to bring about change. Its immediate 
impact includes enhanced knowledge 
in health and increased opportunity to 
assess their health status and make plans 
for improvement through management 
of village-owned resources. In the long 
term, communities reduce the incidence 
of communicable diseases and increase 
their capacity to control their future.”

Dr. Ei Thinzar Min Min Oo
Pact Staff Doctor
Dry Zone, Myanmar

42

GRI and API/IPIECA Index

This index refers to:

• 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version 3.0, 

core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially reported. 

• American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 

Association (API/IPIECA) sustainability reporting indicators.

GRI
(Additional indicators in italics)

API/IPIECA
(Additional indicators in italics)

Where Reported

Proﬁ le Disclosures

Strategy and Analysis

Organizational Proﬁ le

Report Parameters

1.1   1.2

2.1   2.2   2.31   2.41–2.91   2.10

Report Proﬁ le   3.1–3.4

Governance, Commitments 
and Engagement

Report Scope and Boundary   3.5   3.6–3.8   3.9   3.10   3.11

GRI Content Index   3.12

Assurance   3.13
Governance   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4   4.51 –4.71   4.8   4.91   4.101

SOC-6

Commitments to External Initiatives   4.11   4.121   4.131

Stakeholder Engagement   4.14   4.15–4.17

Economic

Economic Performance   EC11   EC2   EC31   EC4   

Market Presence   EC6   EC7

Indirect Economic Impacts   EC8

Environmental

Materials   EN1   EN2

ECO-11   ECO-A1   ECO-21 
ECO-A21   ECO-31   ECO-A31

SOC-A4

Energy   EN3   EN4   EN5   EN6

Water   EN8   EN10

Biodiversity   EN11   EN12   EN13   EN141

ENV-5   ENV-A8

ENV-A7

ENV-A91

Emissions, Efﬂ uents and Waste   EN16   EN17   EN18   EN19   
EN20   EN21   EN22   EN23 

ENV-1   ENV-A1   ENV-2   ENV-A2   ENV-3   
ENV-A3   ENV-4   ENV-A4   ENV-A5   ENV-A6

Social

Labor Practices and 
Decent Work

Products and Services   EN26   EN27

Compliance   EN28

Overall   EN30

Employment   LA1   LA2

Employee Satisfaction   

Labor/Management Relations   LA4   LA5

ENV-6

SOC-A3

SOC-A2

1, 2–7

4, 10

44

3, 15, 44

43

44

3–5

7–10, 18, 37, 40–41

8–10

10, 12–21, 28, 40

34, 39–40

37–38

–

15–17, 19–21

24

21–25

14–18, 23, 25

24

25

4, 24–25

34–38

–

35

Occupational Health and Safety   LA7   LA8

H&S-1   H&S-2   H&S-3   H&S-4

4, 8, 34–38

Training and Education   LA10

Diversity and Equal Opportunity   LA131   LA14

Human Rights

Investment and Procurement Practices   HR1   HR2

Nondiscrimination   HR4

SOC-5

SOC-1

SOC-41

Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining   HR5

SOC-71

Society

Child Labor   HR6

Forced and Compulsory Labor   HR7

Security Practices   HR8

Indigenous Rights   

Community   SO1

Corruption   SO2   SO3   SO4

Public Policy   SO5   SO6

Compliance   SO8

SOC-9

SOC-A6

SOC-2

SOC-3   SOC-A1

SOC-A4   SOC-A5   SOC-A7   SOC-8

8–9, 22, 26–33

Product Responsibility

Customer Health and Safety   PR1

H&S-5

Product and Service Labeling   PR3

Marketing Communications   PR6

Compliance   PR9

Key to Indicators: 

  Fully Reported in 2008 

  Partially Reported in 2008 

  Not Covered in 2008

1 Information responsive to this indicator appears on our Web site: www.chevron.com.

34

35

41–42

34–35, 41

–

–

–

41

–

4–5

5, 18

–

24

–

–

–

43

 
 
 
 
About This Report

This report covers 2008 data and activities. 
We also occasionally mention events that took 
place in early 2009 when they help provide 
a clearer picture of our performance. This 
report covers our owned or operated busi-
nesses and does not address the performance 
of our suppliers, contractors or partners unless 
otherwise noted. All financial information is 
presented in U.S. dollars. Our previous report 
was published in May 2008 and covers 2007 
data and activities.

We continue to be informed by reporting 
frameworks and guidelines that include the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil 
and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting, published in 2005 by 
the International Petroleum Industry Environ-
mental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and 
the American  Petroleum Institute (API). We 
included an index to help readers find informa-
tion corresponding to the GRI and API/IPIECA 
indicators (see page 43).

This report, previous editions of our report 
and additional information can be found on 
Chevron.com. We welcome your comments and 
feedback at CRReport@chevron.com.

Cautionary Statement Relevant 
to Forward-Looking Information
This Corporate Responsibility Report by 
Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking 
statements relating to the manner in which 
Chevron intends to conduct certain of its activi-
ties, based on management’s current plans 
and expectations. These statements are not 
promises or guarantees of future conduct or 
policy and are subject to a variety of uncer-
tainties and other factors, many of which are 
beyond our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, 
including the development, implementation or 
continuation of any program, policy or initia-
tive discussed to forecast in this report may 
differ materially in the future. The statements 
of intention in this report speak only as of the 
date of this report. Chevron undertakes no 
obligation to publicly update any statements 
in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and 
such terms as “the company,” “the corpora-
tion,” “their,” “our,” “its,” “we,” and “us” may 
refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated 
subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken 
as a whole. All of these terms are used for 
convenience only and are not intended as a 
precise description of any of the separate enti-
ties, each of which manages its own affairs.

44

Assurance Statement

  Scope of the Assurance
  Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was engaged by Chevron to review the processes used 
in the creation of Chevron’s 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report. The objective of the review was to 
validate the integrity of Chevron’s reporting processes. The review did not extend to LRQA’s evaluating 
the accuracy of data input into Chevron’s report. The scope of the assurance also was limited to the 
health, environmental and safety (HES) performance indicators.

  The Chevron 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report has been approved by Chevron management, who 

are solely responsible for the collection, presentation and accuracy of all data and information presented.

  Approach

In order to form our conclusions, we obtained sufficient evidence that we consider necessary for us 
to give limited, not absolute, assurance.1 Our assurance approach was risk-based and undertaken as 
a sampling exercise. It covered the following activities:

•  Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of Chevron’s reporting requirements.

•  Reviewing the documented reporting requirements to validate consistency of scope, definition and 

reporting for each of the HES performance indicators.

•  Sampling two business units to assess local understanding and implementation of Chevron’s HES 

reporting requirements.

•  Reviewing the processes used to aggregate data and information at the corporate level for inclusion 

in the final report.

  Conclusions and Findings
  Based on the scope of the assurance, LRQA believes that Chevron’s reporting process is effective in 

delivering health, environmental and safety indicators for the purpose of evaluating and communicating 
corporate performance in these areas.

  Our other conclusions:

•  The methods used for calculating each HES performance metric are clearly defined and communicated.

•  Chevron’s reporting requirements are understood and carried out. Data are collected at the business 

unit level, checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics.

  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines is clear, and improvement 

in methodology is regularly undertaken.

  Thomas Sliva
  On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
  April 29, 2009

  Lloyd’s Register, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, 
individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the “LR Group.” The LR Group assumes no 
responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance 
on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a 
contract with the relevant LR Group entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that 
case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

  1 The assurance undertaken by LRQA did not verify data and information back to its original source(s).

 
Glossary

Biodiversity

In Shanyrak Village, Kazakhstan, an evaporation 
pond — formed by treated water from employee 
lodging facilities — creates an artificial wetland 
that serves seasonal visitors such as this white-
tailed plover and many other bird species.

Bb
Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A measure to 
quantify crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural 
gas amounts using the same basis. Natural gas 
volumes are converted to barrels on the basis of 
energy content. 

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on Earth. 
It encompasses genera, species, habitats and eco-
systems, and the processes that support them. 

Biofuel Any fuel that is derived from biomass — 
recently living organisms or their metabolic 
byproducts — from sources such as farming, 
forestry, and biodegradable industrial and 
municipal waste.

Business Conduct and Ethics Code Describes 
proper business conduct within Chevron and 
includes an overview of several of the most 
important laws and policies governing that 
conduct. All employees and board members 
must understand and comply with the code.

Cc
Capacity building A key area of focus for 
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which 
means targeting support toward programs that 
help individuals and institutions develop the skills, 
capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.

Carbon sequestration Capturing and storing 
carbon dioxide in various ways, such as capture by 
vegetation or by injection into geologic formations 
for long-term storage, so that it does not enter or 
remain in the atmosphere as a greenhouse gas.

The Chevron Way Explains our values: who we 
are, what we do, what we believe and what we 
plan to accomplish. 

Dd
Downstream The industry term for operations 
related to refining crude oil into finished petro-
leum products; marketing crude oil and the many 
products derived from petroleum; and transport-
ing crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products 
by pipeline, marine vessel, motor equipment and 
rail car. 

Ee
Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment (ESHIA) A corporate standard proc-
ess that requires capital projects to be evaluated 
for potential environmental, social and health 
impacts and requires that appropriate  mitigation 
measures be developed. ESHIA improves decision 
making and incorporates stakeholder  engagement 

throughout the project’s life cycle. The process 
makes sure that project impacts are eliminated or 
mitigated and benefits are enhanced. ESHIA was 
adopted for deployment as a corporate standard 
in January 2007.

Ff
Flaring and venting The burning or release of 
natural gas that is often produced in association 
with crude oil, a process that typically occurs 
when there is no market or onsite use for the gas.

Gg
Geothermal energy A renewable source of 
energy that uses the heat energy of the Earth 
for heating or to create electricity.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A multistake-
holder process and independent institution whose 
mission is to develop and disseminate globally 
applicable sustainability reporting  guidelines. 

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap heat in 
the Earth’s atmosphere; such gases include water 
vapor, ozone, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous 
oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and 
sulfur hexafluoride. 

Ii
ISO 14001 Environmental management  system 
standard developed by the International 
Standards Organization.

Ll
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is 
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to 
facilitate storage or transportation in specially 
designed vessels. 

Nn
Nongovernmental organization (NGO) An 
organization that is independent from govern-
ment, generally a nonprofit organization devoted 
to providing assistance to or advancing a particu-
lar cause or issue. 

Oo
OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health 
and Safety Assessment Series management 
system specification. 

Operating company A major Chevron company 
organized for a specific business purpose. 

Operational Excellence Management System 
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to 

 systematic management of safety, health, the 
environment, reliability and efficiency in order 
to achieve world-class performance. 

Pp
Partner In this report, partner is used in its 
broad sense to mean a person or organization 
associated with another in a common activity 
or one that shares a mutual interest. It does not 
imply a member of a contractual partnership in 
which the partners jointly own and carry on a 
business and proportionally share in liabilities, 
profits or losses of the business. 

Production Total production refers to all the 
crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas 
produced from a property. Gross production is 
the company’s share of total production before 
deducting royalties. Net production is gross 
 production minus royalties paid to landowners. 

Rr
Renewable energy Energy resources that are 
not depleted when consumed or converted 
into other forms of energy (for example, solar, 
geothermal, ocean and tide, wind, hydroelectric 
power, and biofuels). 

Reserves Crude oil, natural gas liquids or natural 
gas contained in underground rock formations 
called “reservoirs.” Proved reserves are the esti-
mated quantities that geologic and engineering 
data demonstrate can be produced with reason-
able certainty from known reservoirs under 
existing economic and operating conditions. 
Estimates change as additional information 
becomes available. 

Revenue transparency Refers to the practice of 
disclosing certain financial arrangements related 
to energy industry operations by industry and 
host governments. 

Ss
Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who 
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate 
interest in our company’s performance. 

Tt
Transparency Making relevant and accurate 
information available to those with a legitimate 
interest in the organization. 

Uu
Upstream The industry term for operations 
related to exploring for, developing and produc-
ing crude oil and natural gas and for marketing 
natural gas.

Vv
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights Principles developed by extractive-sector 
companies, human rights organizations, a trade 
union, and the U.S. and U.K. governments to 
guide companies in maintaining the safety and 
security of their operations within a framework 
that ensures respect for human rights and 
fundamental freedoms.

PHOTO CREDITS: Cover, Page 1: Anthony Mokwe and Olufemi Olukayode. Page 2: Suzie Sakuma. Page 4: Alessandro De Sogos. Page 5: Christian Sprogoe. Page 8: Divaldo Gregorio (center); Marilyn Hulbert 
(right). Page 9: Mike Goldwater. Page 11: Jim Karageorge. Page 13: Gary Darby. Page 14 (from left): Tina Toriello; Maura Warnecke. Page 16: Frank Curran. Page 17 (from left): Michael Ramsey/Spoken Image; 
Paul S. Howell. Page 19: Michael Ramsey/Spoken Image. Pages 20–21 (from left): Elvin Marcelo; Gary Darby; Pat Corkery/NREL; Paul S. Howell. Page 22: Nadeem Anwar. Page 25 (from top): Michael Ramsey/
Spoken Image; Gonzalo Garcia. Page 27: Peter Cannon/GEOmedia and Pedro Cadena. Page 28: Pat Sullivan. Page 29 (right): Abby Hoats. Page 30: Charlie Riera. Page 31 (from top): David Peters; Mike Goldwater. 
Page 32: Tim Ewell/Trinity Media, Inc. Page 34: Marilyn Hulbert. Page 36: Jim Karageorge. Page 37 (from left): Robert Espinoza/Sevial; Heidi Pervin. Page 38: Lily Craig. Page 39: Seth Gitner. Page 40: John 
Smallwood. Page 42: Pact. Inside Back Cover: GEOmedia.

(cid:23)(cid:59)(cid:92)(cid:99)(cid:96)(cid:109)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:101)(cid:94)(cid:23)
(cid:71)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:93)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:100)(cid:88)(cid:101)(cid:90)(cid:92)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)(cid:23)(cid:74)(cid:108)(cid:103)(cid:103)(cid:99)(cid:92)(cid:100)(cid:92)(cid:101)(cid:107)(cid:23)(cid:107)(cid:102)(cid:23)(cid:107)(cid:95)(cid:92)(cid:23)(cid:56)(cid:101)(cid:101)(cid:108)(cid:88)(cid:99)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:107)

(cid:59)(cid:92)(cid:109)(cid:92)(cid:99)(cid:102)(cid:103)(cid:96)(cid:101)(cid:94)(cid:23)
(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:105)(cid:107)(cid:101)(cid:92)(cid:105)(cid:106)(cid:95)(cid:96)(cid:103)(cid:106)

(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:39)(cid:47)(cid:23)(cid:58)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:88)(cid:107)(cid:92)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:106)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:101)(cid:106)(cid:96)(cid:89)(cid:96)(cid:99)(cid:96)(cid:107)(cid:112)(cid:23)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:103)(cid:102)(cid:105)(cid:107)

2008 Annual Report

2008 Supplement to the Annual Report

2008 Corporate Responsibility Report

 Learn more online. The Annual Report, the Supplement to the Annual Report 
and the Corporate Responsibility Report are available on the Internet.
Chevron.com/Publications

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA  94583-2324
www.chevron.com

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are expected to offset the company’s energy 
demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel Studio, New York

© 2009 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

913-0386F  5/09

 
