2002 ChevronTexaco
Corporate Responsibility Report
Integrity and learning in an evolving world

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Table of Contents

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Table of Contents

2 CEO Message

Overview & Strategy

3 Our Values & Vision

3

Company Description

4 About This Report

5

6

Corporate Responsibility Strategy

Engagement & Dialogue

6 Management Systems

8

Corporate Governance

Social Issues

Introduction

Ethics

Political Activities

Revenue Transparency

Community Engagement

Human Rights

Security

Health & Safety

HIV/AIDS & Other Infectious Diseases

Employees

Diversity

Global Workforce Development

Training & Development

Wages & Beneﬁts

Employee Dispute Resolution

9

11

12

13

14

18

19

20

23

25

26

28

29

29

30

Economic Issues

Introduction

Financial Performance Data

Supplier Diversity & Small Business Development

Environmental Issues

Introduction

Energy Efﬁciency

Climate Change

Energy Technologies

Flaring

31

31

33

35

37

38

41

43

44 Air Emissions

45

Spills

47 Water

47 Waste

48 Decommissioning & Remediation

50

53

54

56

Biodiversity

Environmental and Social Impact Assessments

Product Stewardship

Environmental Expenditures & Fines

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

1

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview and Strategy
CEO Message

CEO Message

Dave O’Reilly 

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 

As an energy company that oper-

transportation and commerce to health care, education and agriculture.

ates in more than 180 countries,

In producing this energy, ChevronTexaco provides employment, spurs

ChevronTexaco is accountable to 

economic growth, transfers technology, and contributes to the devel-

a wide range of stakeholders:

opment of the communities in which we operate.

investors and employees; business

partners and host governments;

customers and local communities.

We know our success as a company

depends not only on our ﬁnancial

performance but also on our ability

We also operate in some of the most challenging places in the world –

regions that suffer from poverty, disease, civil unrest and legacies of

corruption. In some of these places, the beneﬁts of economic development

have not been distributed evenly. Because we operate there, companies

like ours have an opportunity to be catalysts for positive change.

to address the social and environ-

Issues related to poverty and health are of special concern to the people

mental expectations of these stake-

of ChevronTexaco. In our view, addressing these fundamental issues is

holders. Indeed, we see corporate

a critical stepping-stone to being able to help ﬁnd solutions to the range

responsibility and business success

of other complex social, economic and environmental issues where we

as mutually reinforcing: Financial

operate, from increasing revenue transparency in our industry to address-

health is a prerequisite to our

ing concerns about global climate change.

being able to continue to make a positive contribution to society, and

operating in a responsible way contributes to our ﬁnancial success.

We are working, consistent with our role as a company, to help ensure

that our stakeholders beneﬁt from the energy we and our partners

This report describes the work that ChevronTexaco is doing – and has

develop. We accept that we have a role to play, but also recognize that

yet to do – to demonstrate responsible performance around the world.

there are some needs that only governments can meet – and many needs

We have focused on our performance in areas that are important to our

that can only be met when all sectors work together. We know, as well,

company and, we believe, to our stakeholders. We also have painted a

that complex problems require coordinated responses. As this report

picture of our overall approach to corporate responsibility because we

makes clear, partnership is a central element of our efforts. Just as we

believe that the way we achieve results is every bit as important as the

work with our partners to discover and develop energy, we must also

results themselves.

Although this is our ﬁrst report on corporate responsibility, the concept

is not new to the more than 53,000 men and women of ChevronTexaco.

work with governments, nongovernmental organizations, multilateral

agencies, community groups and others in the private sector to ﬁnd

shared solutions to common challenges.

You will ﬁnd it reﬂected in The ChevronTexaco Way, which describes

We recognize that corporate responsibility is not a static concept. As the

our company’s values and guides our actions. For nearly 125 years,

world changes, our company’s approach must evolve. Today, that means

we have recognized the importance of treating people with respect,

working to be more integrated and systematic in how we address these

addressing the needs of the communities where we do business, being

issues, developing new policies and programs and ﬁnding better ways

responsible stewards of the environment and leaving a positive legacy

to measure our progress.

for future generations.

In that spirit, we will explore for new solutions every bit as determinedly

Our company’s primary obligation is to produce reliable, affordable

as we search for new energy resources, and we commit to continually

energy. In doing so, we are committed to protecting people and the envi-

improving our performance in this important area.

ronment by operating safely and efﬁciently, conserving natural resources

and responsibly stewarding our products. We take pride in knowing that

the energy we produce is a building block of economic development

that helps improve standards of living around the world. Energy, quite

literally, is the fuel that drives progress in countless other sectors, from

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

2

Dave O’Reilly

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Ofﬁcer

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview & Strategy

Our Values & Vision

Company Description

At ChevronTexaco, we deﬁne corporate responsibility as applying our

ChevronTexaco Corp. is a global energy company engaged in all aspects

core values consistently and balancing the needs of our key stakeholders.

of the oil and gas industry, including exploration and production; reﬁn-

It means integrating social and environmental considerations into our

ing, marketing and transportation; chemicals manufacturing and sales;

core business practices and decision-making to maximize the positive

and power generation. We are also working to develop and commer-

impact of our operations on current and future generations. We aim to

cialize the next generation of promising energy technologies. Our com-

be admired not only for the goals we achieve but how we achieve them.

pany is headquartered in San Ramon, California and, at the end of 2002,

The ChevronTexaco Way deﬁnes our vision and values. It describes our

commitment to respect the law, conduct our business in a socially

responsible and ethical manner, support universal human rights, protect

people and the environment, and beneﬁt the communities where we

employed approximately 53,000 people. Active in more than 180 coun-

tries, the company’s Caltex-, Texaco-, and Chevron-branded products

hold top-tier rankings worldwide. ChevronTexaco was formed in 2001

by the merger of Chevron Corporation and Texaco Inc.

work. These values shape our culture and guide our decisions and actions.

As of December 31, 2002, ChevronTexaco’s worldwide operations include:

They are the starting points for the development of a more integrated

corporate responsibility strategy that builds on our on-the-ground experi-

ence in areas ranging from environmental conservation to community

development. Our goal is to create value for our stakeholders by operating

with integrity, effectively responding to society’s expectations and contin-

Exploration and Production (Upstream):

> ChevronTexaco has net proven reserves of about 12 billion barrels of

oil and gas equivalent. It produces about 2.6 million barrels equivalent

per day of crude oil and natural gas.

ually improving our social, economic and environmental performance.

> Outside North America, ChevronTexaco has major oil and gas produc-

From The ChevronTexaco Way:

Our company’s foundation is built on our Values, which distinguish

us and guide our actions. We conduct our business in a socially

responsible and ethical manner. We respect the law, support

universal human rights, protect the environment, and beneﬁt

communities where we work. Our Values include:

> Integrity

> Trust 

> Diversity

> Partnership

> High Performance

> Responsibility

> Growth

> Protecting People and the Environment

tion operations in Angola, Argentina, Australia, China, Indonesia,

Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Philippines, Republic of Congo, Thailand,

Venezuela, the North Sea and the Middle East.

> Major oil and gas producing areas in North America include

California, Gulf of Mexico, Texas and Canada.

Reﬁning, Marketing and Transportation (Downstream):

> ChevronTexaco’s worldwide network of 23 wholly owned and joint

venture reﬁneries have total reﬁning capacity of more than 2.3 mil-

lion barrels of crude oil a day.

> The company operates more than 24,000 retail outlets (including

afﬁliates) and markets under the Chevron, Texaco and Caltex brands.

> Downstream global businesses include lubricants and aviation fuels

marketing, fuels trading and shipping.

> ChevronTexaco’s pipeline business transports crude oil and other

petroleum products throughout the United States. The company also

holds a 15 percent interest in the 935-mile crude oil export pipeline

between the Tengiz oil ﬁeld in Kazakhstan and the Black Sea port 

of Novorossiysk.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

3

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview & Strategy

Company Description (Continued)

About this Report

Petrochemicals:

ChevronTexaco’s ﬁrst corporate responsibility report

> ChevronTexaco is one of the world’s largest producers of commodity

Corporate responsibility is not new to ChevronTexaco, but reporting on

petrochemicals through Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, a

our social, economic and environmental performance in a comprehensive,

50/50 joint venture with ConocoPhillips.

> Chevron Oronite Company, a fuel and lubricating oil additives

operating company, supplies one-fourth of the world’s fuel and

lubricants additives.

Power Generation:

> The company has interests in 30 power projects operating or being

developed on ﬁve continents. Projects in operation generate more

than 4,500 megawatts of electric power.

Energy Technologies:

global way is. This ﬁrst report simultaneously conveys that ChevronTexaco

has long been addressing many corporate responsibility issues and that we

are working to manage them in a more integrated and systematic way. It

describes where we think we are doing well and where we are not satisﬁed

with our performance.

Addressing the key issues facing our company

This ﬁrst ChevronTexaco corporate responsibility report includes infor-

mation on social, economic and environmental issues and performance.

The issues covered reﬂect our views on the key corporate responsibility

issues facing our company, as well as our understanding of external stake-

> ChevronTexaco has invested in a range of energy technologies,

holders’ opinions on the most signiﬁcant and material impacts of our

including wind and solar power generation, fuel cells, hydrogen-

operations. In developing this report, we were informed by the Global

fueled transportation systems and advanced batteries for hybrid

Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We intend

electric vehicles.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

4

to continue to assess GRI and other external reporting frameworks as they

evolve and apply them as appropriate for our company in future reports.

2002 information presented in context

This report focuses on the performance of our owned and operated

businesses and generally does not address the performance of our sup-

pliers, contractors or partners. We have tried to focus primarily on

2002 information in the report. But where we feel it provides a more

complete picture of our performance or impacts, we have included

some historical information that predates the merger of Chevron and

Texaco in 2001 and, in some instances, also included information from

2003. We plan to publish a corporate responsibility report annually.

Developing performance indicators

Where possible, we have included corporatewide performance data

and information. In many instances, however, we provide information

or examples on a country, operating company or business unit level.

Operating in more than 180 countries and in multiple business sectors

requires that we be responsive to local laws and issues and ﬂexible in

how we address them in unique operating environments. At the same

time, we must develop appropriate corporatewide performance indica-

tors for measuring and reporting on corporate responsibility issues.

A baseline for continual improvement

We recognize that we can expand the scope and completeness of our

corporate responsibility reporting in the future, and we view this report

as the baseline for continual improvement. We are working to identify

additional indicators and metrics that are valuable to us and that will

help us and others assess our corporate responsibility performance. We

look forward to feedback on what is contained in this report.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview & Strategy

Corporate Responsibility Strategy

An Integrated Corporate Responsibility Strategy: A New Imperative

Reviewing Our Policies and Processes

Immediately following the 2001 merger of Chevron and Texaco, we

An important early step in our process of developing an integrated cor-

conducted an internal assessment of our corporate responsibility prac-

porate responsibility strategy was to inventory and evaluate our policies

tices. Our company has a number of policies, programs and activities

and processes related to the issues we believe are most relevant to us and

that relate to corporate responsibility, and around the world, we have

our stakeholders. We are a founding supporter of the Global Sullivan

gained on-the-ground experience addressing issues ranging from HIV/

Principles, an external standard covering a range of social and environ-

AIDS to operating in ecologically sensitive regions. But we saw an

mental issues. We also have numerous internal policies, programs and

opportunity to take a more integrated approach to corporate responsi-

activities related to various aspects of corporate responsibility. We saw,

bility and, in some instances, enhance or formalize our efforts. This was

however, an opportunity to approach corporate responsibility in a more

driven by our desire for our activities and operations to create beneﬁts

systematic way. As a result, we have begun developing some new policies

for society, the environment and the communities in which we work,

and processes that span our worldwide operations which we believe will

while simultaneously creating value for our stockholders.

enable us to manage these issues more effectively.

ChevronTexaco’s Corporate Responsibility Approach

Internal & External
Assessment

Strategy Development

Policy Development

+

o
c
a
x
e
T
n
o
r
v
e
h
C

October
2001
Merger

Measurement & Reporting

Our Near-Term Corporate Responsibility Priorities

Building on our existing corporate responsibility policies and activities,

we are focusing efforts in the following areas:

Integrated Corporate Responsibility
Management Piloting

> Corporate Responsibility Guiding Principles – We are developing

Corporatewide Deployment

principles that will provide additional operational guidance to

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

Better Understanding Our Operating Environment 

and Changing Expectations 

We recognize that, like all companies, we must be cognizant of how we

manage the social, economic and environmental impacts of our opera-

tions. To help us learn about emerging issues, we undertook a series of

discussions with corporate responsibility experts and other stakeholders

to increase our understanding of these changing expectations and their

perceptions of our performance. We also researched what other compa-

nies are doing to address corporate responsibility. As we’ve sought to

broaden and deepen our understanding of the issues that affect our

business and the impacts of our operations, we’ve focused on the issues

that we believe are of particular relevance to the energy industry given

the nature, location and impacts of our operations. These include:

> ethics, transparency and ﬁnancial reporting;

> community engagement and development;

> human and labor rights;

> health and safety;

> environment, conservation and climate change;

> workplace practices and employee relations;

> integration of corporate responsibility considerations 

into our supplier relationships.

employees about how to put The ChevronTexaco Way commitment

to “conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical man-

ner, respect the law, support universal human rights, protect the

environment and beneﬁt the communities where we work” into

practice in our day-to-day actions and decisions.

> Pilot Projects – We are planning pilot projects in a sampling of opera-

tional locations to gain practical experience in taking a more systematic

approach to corporate responsibility management. We want to identify

where we can better integrate social and environmental considerations

into our existing management systems as well as areas where we may

need to develop new processes to more consistently incorporate these

concerns into day-to-day decision-making. The goal is to learn tech-

niques and develop tools that can then be applied across our company.

We believe the pilots also will help us learn additional ways to measure

and assess our corporate responsibility performance.

> Human Rights and Community Engagement – Our review identiﬁed

these two issues as being of particular and increasing importance to

ChevronTexaco. Building on our existing policy framework, we are

developing a corporate Human Rights Statement to provide additional

guidance on conducting our operations in a manner consistent with

universal human rights principles. We are planning to test implemen-

tation of the statement in the coming year. We also initiated an assess-

ment of our global community engagement activities to learn ways to

increase the impact of our efforts.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

5

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview & Strategy

Engagement & Dialogue

Management Systems

We think of our stakeholders as all those who affect, are affected by or

Integrating Corporate Responsibility into Our Business

have a legitimate interest in our company’s performance. Our stakehold-

As part of our effort to develop and implement a more integrated corpo-

ers include our stockholders, employees, business partners, host govern-

rate responsibility strategy, we are reviewing our existing management

ments, customers and the local communities where we operate. We view

systems and processes to identify where corporate responsibility consid-

engaging these stakeholders as an essential part of corporate responsibil-

erations can be more fully or consistently integrated into them. Current

ity. ChevronTexaco also consults and works with nongovernmental

processes are already in place to systematically address health, environ-

organizations, multilateral agencies and others committed to construc-

ment and safety considerations; ethics and compliance performance; and

tive dialogue. ChevronTexaco engages stakeholders in a variety of ways,

human resources issues.

including formal consultations, informal or ad hoc feedback, surveys, as

well as through other interactions that arise in the course of business.

As a decentralized company whose operations span the globe, we have

found it effective to do a great deal of listening, learning and dialoguing

directly at the local level. As we work to develop a more integrated

approach to corporate responsibility, we also are looking at ways to be

more systematic in engaging our stakeholders and others. We aim to

build better processes to transfer learning from the local level throughout

the company so that we can better understand and respond to emerging

issues. At the corporate level, we are focusing on being more proactive in

Strategic and Business Planning Process

The backbone of our company’s management systems is our Strategic

and Business Planning Process. This process is designed to set and build

internal alignment around the strategic direction for the company. It

also incorporates an assessment of the future risks and uncertainties

ChevronTexaco faces. Our Strategic and Business Planning Process sets

performance objectives for each business unit, including those related

to health, environment, safety and reliability. Managers at all levels are

expected to systematically monitor performance against their objectives.

engaging on important, global issues that cut across our operations.

Operational Excellence Management System

A signiﬁcant component of our overall approach to managing our busi-

ness is our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), which

spells out speciﬁc requirements for management of health, environment

and safety (HES) issues, in accordance with our HES Policy. Reliability

and efﬁciency also are addressed by the OEMS.

First published in 2001, the OEMS includes many expectations previ-

ously in place in ChevronTexaco legacy companies, some dating to the

early 1990s. The OEMS establishes a common set of expectations for

ChevronTexaco businesses. These expectations cover areas ranging from

facility design and construction through operation and decommission-

ing. The system is ﬂexible enough to allow our businesses to address

priority issues for their operations while meeting corporate-level expec-

tations. Since the merger in October 2001, deployment of the OEMS has

continued across our businesses, supported by a network of appointed

“OE Champions.”

ChevronTexaco’s OEMS is consistent with other generally accepted envi-

ronmental or HES management systems. The system establishes clear

expectations for performance, processes for establishing priorities, and

requirements for developing and implementing plans for continual

improvement. The OEMS also provides for regular evaluation of the

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

6

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview & Strategy

Management Systems (Continued)

system’s effectiveness. The OEMS is designed to conform to the standard

OEMS Elements and Purpose Statements

for environmental management systems outlined in ISO 14001. As of

midyear 2003, some 29 facilities or operations within ChevronTexaco

had received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation.

Companywide implementation of the OEMS is monitored through an

Operational Excellence Review Process. Each reporting unit is subject

to an OE review, conducted by an internal team, every three to ﬁve

Element 1

Element 2

years. In an effort to maintain high-quality, unbiased reviews, review

Element 3

team members are recruited from ChevronTexaco organizations outside

the one being reviewed. They are selected based upon relevant skills

and experience and are given speciﬁc training on the review process.

ChevronTexaco conducted 31 of these OE reviews in 2002.

Element 4

Element 5

Element 6

Element 7

Element 8

Element 9

Element 10

Element 11

Element 12

Security of Personnel and Assets
Provide a secure environment in which business
operations may be successfully conducted.

Facilities Design and Construction
Design and construct facilities to prevent injury, 
illness and incidents and to comply with regulatory
requirements.

Safe Operations
Operate and maintain facilities to prevent injuries, 
illness and incidents.

Management of Change
Manage both permanent and temporary changes 
to prevent incidents.

Reliability and Efﬁciency 
Operate and maintain facilities to sustain mechanical
integrity and prevent incidents.

Third Party Services
Systematically address and manage contractor 
conformance to Operational Excellence.

Environmental Stewardship
Manage environmental risks associated with facility
operations to minimize impacts from emissions, 
releases, and wastes.

Product Stewardship 
Manage potential risks of our products throughout 
the products’ life cycles.

Incident Investigation
Investigate and identify root causes of incidents 
to reduce or eliminate systemic causes to prevent 
future incidents.

Community Awareness and Outreach 
Reach out to the community and engage in open
dialogue to build trust.

Emergency Management
Prevention is the ﬁrst priority, but be prepared for 
an emergency and mitigate any incident quickly 
and effectively.

Compliance Assurance
Ensure that all employees and contractors understand
their safety, health, environment and security respon-
sibilities and comply with company policies and
applicable laws and regulations.

Element 13

Legislative and Regulatory Advocacy 
Work ethically and constructively to inﬂuence proposed
laws and regulations, and debate on emerging issues.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

7

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Overview & Strategy

Corporate Governance

Our Corporate Governance Framework

Committee regarding corporate responsibility issues facing the company

Sound governance of our company is an integral part of corporate

and seek the committee’s input on strategies or approaches.

Corporate Responsibility Leadership at Executive Level

At the senior-management level, a variety of structures exist to provide

leadership and accountability for the company’s corporate respon-

sibility strategy and performance. The primary forum in this regard is

the Global Issues Committee, an executive-level, cross-functional team

chaired by ChevronTexaco’s Vice Chairman that oversees policy and

strategy development on issues of worldwide strategic importance

for the company. This group has formal responsibility for leading

ChevronTexaco’s corporate responsibility strategy development. Additi-

onally, corporate responsibility issues raised by the Public Policy

Committee or the full Board of Directors typically are brought to the

Global Issues Committee for response. But other executive-level

committees – including the Executive Committee, Human Resources

Committee and Strategy, and Planning Committee – share responsi-

bility for aspects of ChevronTexaco’s corporate responsibility policies

and approaches.

responsibility. ChevronTexaco’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, in

conjunction with our Restated Certiﬁcate of Incorporation, By-Laws and

Board committee charters, form our governance framework. The guide-

lines, available on our Web site, cover a range of topics including the

overall role of the Board, key elements of Board membership and direc-

tor independence, speciﬁcs on Board committees, ethical expectations

for Board members, Board and CEO performance review processes, and

processes for reporting concerns regarding accounting, internal account-

ing controls and auditing.

ChevronTexaco’s Chief Executive Ofﬁcer David J. O’Reilly serves as the

Chairman of the Board of Directors. With the exception of the Chairman

and Vice Chairman, at the end of 2002 all Board members were inde-

pendent directors as deﬁned by the New York Stock Exchange.

Role of Board Committees

Committees of the Board of Directors include: Audit, Board Nominating

and Governance, Management Compensation and Public Policy. Each

committee is entirely comprised of independent directors. The Audit

Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the corporation’s ﬁnancial

statements are properly audited, that the corporation maintains an

effective internal audit function and that the corporation complies with

legal and regulatory requirements, among other duties. The Board

Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board in deﬁning

and assessing qualiﬁcations for membership on the Board of Directors,

and in identifying qualiﬁed candidates, makes recommendations for

organization of the Board’s affairs and addresses stockholder concerns

regarding corporate governance, among other duties. The Management

Compensation Committee assists the Board in determining salary and

other compensation matters for executive ofﬁcers and in establishing

and administering incentive compensation and equity-based compensa-

tion plans for company management, among other duties.

While corporate responsibility issues are embedded in the charter of

each of the Board committees, the Public Policy Committee has pri-

mary responsibility for oversight of the company’s overall corporate

responsibility strategy and performance. The Public Policy Committee’s

charter is to identify, evaluate and monitor social, political and environ-

mental issues and concerns worldwide. It also reviews the company’s

strategy and performance related to corporate responsibility. Members

of ChevronTexaco’s management regularly brief the Public Policy

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

8

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Introduction to Social Issues Section

people’s quality of life. In addition to supplying this energy, we provide

employment and help employees develop skills and experience, spur

economic growth, transfer technology, and contribute to the commu-

nities where we operate.

In many countries, national governments have taken direct control over

their energy resources, and global energy companies operate in partner-

ship with these governments. We recognize, however, that the beneﬁts

of energy resources have not always reached the local communities

where we operate. Some countries and regions have been described as

suffering from the so-called “resource curse,” a term economists use to

describe locations with abundant natural resources that are prone to

perform worse on economic and social development indicators than

more resource-poor countries. ChevronTexaco is concerned about this

issue. In our view, addressing fundamental issues related to poverty and

health is a critical stepping stone to being able to help ﬁnd solutions to

the range of other complex social, economic and environmental issues

where we operate.

In Maricaibo, Venezuela, employee Joe Wright plays with children of the

orphanage Casa Hogar Simon Rodriguez, which ChevronTexaco built and

supports with employee volunteers. 

Our Direct Social Responsibilities

ChevronTexaco’s operations can affect people’s lives and society in

numerous ways. The social issues we believe we are most directly

responsible for are:

> conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner;

About This Section: Working to Measure Social Impacts

> valuing and respecting employees, including supporting diversity,

hiring local employees, and providing employees with training and

development opportunities;

Measuring and reporting on the social impacts of commercial operations

are still in an early state of development, compared with ﬁnancial and,

to a lesser extent, environmental reporting. Many of the topics addressed

in the social section of this report do not lend themselves easily to quan-

> protecting the health and safety of people who work on our behalf

tiﬁable measurement. Where possible, we have provided speciﬁc perform-

ance data, but the majority of the data are qualitative. ChevronTexaco is

among the many companies working to better understand, measure and

report our social impacts and performance.

or live in the communities where we operate;

> engaging with and contributing to the communities where we work;

> supporting and promoting universal human rights consistent with

the legitimate role of business;

> participating constructively in shaping public policy on issues that

directly affect our company.

Helping Address Broader Social Issues

Companies such as ChevronTexaco operate in regions of the world

facing societal challenges that are beyond the boundaries of an indi-

vidual company’s activities or sphere of inﬂuence, such as poverty,

public health, education, human rights, and national and regional stability.

Although we cannot and should not assume the role of government,

we accept the challenge – in cooperation with all sectors – to help

address these issues. Our core business of supplying affordable, reliable

energy is an important part of economic development and improving

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

9

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Engagement and Dialogue

Case Study >

Addressing Complex Challenges 
in Nigeria

The Niger Delta illustrates some of the most difﬁcult conditions ChevronTexaco

faces anywhere. Poverty, ethnic and tribal tensions, and unstable law and

order are among the challenges faced by Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL).

The Escravos oil terminal, located 

In the Niger Delta, thousands of

in the Niger Delta and operated by

miles of rivers form the highways

CNL in partnership with the Nigerian

and communication routes for

National Petroleum Corp. (NNPC),

hundreds of villages that sit above

processes up to 480,000 barrels of

some of the most oil-proliﬁc

oil a day. CNL employs 2,000 peo-

geology in the world.

In the Niger Delta, frustrations over

these chronic problems at times swell

into protests, which sometimes

have become violent. Over the last

several years, CNL facilities and

employees have encountered several

such situations, a powerful illustra-

tion of the challenges of operating

in the region. Faced with such difﬁ-

cult situations, the company’s ﬁrst

priority is always to protect people’s

safety, then to seek inclusive dialogue

to resolve differences.

Chevron’s Riverboat Clinic brings

medical services to communities

near Escravos, Nigeria.

ple, approximately 90 percent of

whom are Nigerians. Three out of

four CNL managers are Nigerian.

“The Niger Delta presents extraordinary challenges for CNL and other com-

panies that operate there,” says Robert Wasserstrom, a former Columbia

University anthropologist who is helping CNL redesign its community devel-

opment strategy. “In my view, this area is one of the most difﬁcult social

environments in the world, especially after 37 years of military government.

Traditional economies and social organizations have been severely dam-

aged, leaving the area with no way to make consensus decisions or resolve

conﬂict. Meanwhile, anger is growing among local villagers, who feel they

have received few beneﬁts from either oil companies or the government.”

ChevronTexaco’s afﬁliates have operated in Nigeria for more than 40 years

and, in that time, have worked to ﬁnd means of helping to address these

complex challenges. As part of its commitment to contribute to the local

community, CNL has partnered with aid organizations, nongovernmental

and community-based organizations. CNL has spent more than US$90

million on community development since the early 1990s for water and

power projects, roads, canals, jetties, schools and hospitals. Through these

efforts, CNL has learned much about engaging with local communities, try-

ing to make meaningful and sustainable contributions to social and eco-

nomic development and working to support universal human rights.

CNL is proud of the many positive impacts it has had on people’s lives – on

the more than 5,000 students per year who receive company-sponsored

scholarships or the thousands of villagers each year who receive medical

care at CNL’s riverboat clinic. But CNL also recognizes that despite the com-

pany’s and its partners’ determination to help solve community problems,

many of the region’s residents lack jobs, adequate clean water, education,

training or health care.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

10

In 1998, an incident involving a CNL facility ended in tragedy. In that case,

200 militant youths seized the offshore Parabe oil production platform,

holding close to 200 national and expatriate employees hostage, protesting

inadequate job opportunities and demanding a substantial increase in com-

munity development investments. In hopes of a peaceful resolution, CNL

management negotiated with the group’s representatives, but without suc-

cess. When, after three days, the negotiations were not advancing, and the

threats against CNL employees held captive continued, Nigerian authorities

were called in to restore order. When the military arrived, conﬂict ensued

between the Nigerian authorities and the protesters. Shots were ﬁred, and

two protesters were killed. CNL deeply regrets these deaths.

In the summer of 2002, CNL’s commitment to peaceful resolution of conﬂict

was tested again, this time with a more positive outcome. Local women

occupied CNL’s Escravos oil terminal, insisting that CNL provide municipal

services and facilities to their communities and create new jobs for the men

in their villages. CNL managers halted oil operations, a critical step to pro-

tect people’s safety, and began discussions with the protesters. Ten days

later, the occupation ended peacefully.

Shortly after, CNL formed a partnership with several third-party develop-

ment organizations, including the United Nations Development Program

(UNDP). CNL and UNDP will develop a coordinated master plan for separate

Delta projects, such as building schools, roads and hospitals.

Illustrating that the challenges will continue, in early 2003, militant youths

in the Delta region embarked on a violent protest against the local govern-

ment prior to general elections in the country. This action led to community

members’ deaths, as well as signiﬁcant loss of life among military personnel

and oil workers, and resulted in widespread destruction of homes and prop-

erty. Acting quickly to protect lives, CNL shut down operations, mobilized its

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

Addressing Complex Challenges 
in Nigeria

Ethics

medical personnel, hired planes from

Integrity is one of ChevronTexaco’s core values, and we are committed

Nigeria and neighboring countries,

to meeting the highest ethical standards in all our business dealings.

Policy: Our Business Conduct and Ethics Code

and airlifted more than 3,000 people –

including 2,000 displaced community

members – to safety in the neighbor-

ing city of Warri. While these protests

were not directly tied to CNL, the

company used its resources to evacu-

ate both employees and community

members. The company also made

repeated public calls urging all parties

to exercise restraint and to seek inclu-

ChevronTexaco’s policy is to adhere to the letter and the spirit of the

law. The ChevronTexaco Business Conduct and Ethics (BC&E) Code

describes the company’s policies for proper business conduct in a range

of areas, such as conﬂicts of interest, public policy activities, gifts to

ofﬁcials, agreements with competitors, privacy of personal informa-

tion, nondiscrimination, and U.S. export controls and trade sanctions.

ChevronTexaco’s Manual of Compliance Procedures and Guidelines

provides greater detail on speciﬁc laws and policies related to many of

the issues addressed in the BC&E Code.

sive dialogue and peaceful resolution.

Also included in our BC&E Code is ChevronTexaco’s policy to comply

In early 2003, unrest in the Niger

Delta led ChevronTexaco to airlift

workers and 2,000 displaced

community members to safety 

in nearby Warri.

The difﬁcult situation in the Niger Delta affords us the opportunity to

contribute to the improvement of conditions and learn important lessons

about the limitations of what can be achieved through our corporate

responsibility efforts. As an individual company, CNL can help provide

much-needed infrastructure, educational, health and other developmental

needs to the people. However, it cannot solve historic, fundamental gover-

nance, security and economic problems. CNL is continuing to collaborate

with others to help improve the living conditions of the people close to our

operations, while leaving minimal footprints of our activities.

fully with the letter and spirit of the U.S. Government’s Foreign Corrupt

Practices Act (FCPA). Payments to international ofﬁcials or parties

for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business is strictly against

ChevronTexaco policy, even if the refusal to make them may cause the

company to lose business. In instances where ofﬁcials expect payment

to expedite the proper performance of “routine governmental action” –

a practice allowed under the FCPA – ChevronTexaco requires all such

requests to be forwarded to our Corporate Comptroller for review

and approval.

Approach: Rigorous Processes for Operating Ethically

We use a variety of processes and control systems, up to and including

termination, to ensure compliance with our ethical policies and guide-

lines and accountability for violations.

ChevronTexaco Directors, employees and contractors are required to

comply with the BC&E Code and the Manual of Compliance Procedures.

All employees are required to read and be trained on the code. The Audit

Committee of the Board of Directors helps the Board monitor the com-

pany’s adherence to the BC&E Code. ChevronTexaco operating compa-

nies and corporate departments have their own Compliance/Audit

Committees. These committees are responsible for overseeing compli-

ance and ensuring that their respective organizations develop, imple-

ment and effectively operate processes to provide reasonable assurance

of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and company poli-

cies. Corporate Compliance Audits are conducted by an Internal Audit

function to help ensure compliance processes are functioning properly.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

11

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Ethics (Continued)

Political Activities

Operating company and corporate department heads must send an

Background: Participating in the Political Process

annual “Representation Letter” to the corporation conﬁrming that they

The laws and regulations governing corporate political activities vary

have effective processes in place to ensure compliance with all applicable

across different countries. In some countries, including the United

policies, laws and regulations. This letter covers areas ranging from

States, the right to participate in the political process and public policy

conﬂicts of interest and the FCPA to health, environment and safety and

debate extends to corporations as well as individuals. In recent years,

human resources issues such as anti-harassment. If, during the year,

there has been heightened public interest in corporate participation in

Internal Audit has issued a “less than satisfactory” audit in any area, the

the public policy process. In addition to responding ethically and hon-

representation letter must explain what corrective action is being taken.

estly to issues that affect our business, employees, stockholders, cus-

A representation also has to be made that processes are in place to iden-

tomers and suppliers, we also recognize the need to demonstrate how

tify and bring to management’s attention any areas where company

our political activities and public policy positions align with our stated

employees or directors are exposed to U.S. penalties or criminal liability

commitments to social and environmental responsibility.

in connection with nonoperated joint-venture operations.

If any employee or director has information that indicates another

employee or agent, consultant or contractor is violating ChevronTexaco

policies or any applicable laws, the BC&E Code requires him or her to

report their concerns to management, legal counsel, the Corporate

Auditing Department, Corporate Security or ChevronTexaco’s global

hotline. All calls to the hotline are conﬁdential and can be made anony-

mously. ChevronTexaco also provides for direct communication of

Hotline calls to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. It is

ChevronTexaco’s policy that no employee will be retaliated against for

making a report of a suspected violation of the company’s policies or

law. Any subsequent corrective or disciplinary actions taken against

individuals who violate the code are taken at the local level and not

tracked on a corporatewide basis.

ChevronTexaco gives employees clear guidelines on appropriate ethical

behavior and reinforces those guidelines. Yet policies, principles and

guidelines – no matter how comprehensive – cannot always provide

deﬁnitive answers to employees’ questions about conduct. Ultimately,

the company relies on its values and employees’ good judgment, includ-

ing a sense of when it’s appropriate to seek guidance on the appropriate

course of conduct.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

12

Approach: Engaging Ethically and Constructively

Consistent with the values expressed in The ChevronTexaco Way, we seek

to work ethically and constructively to inﬂuence proposed laws and regula-

tions and debate on emerging issues that affect our business. We believe it

is the company’s fundamental right and responsibility to participate in the

political process. In our political activities, ChevronTexaco is committed to

adhering to the highest standards of ethics and transparency, and to com-

plying with the letter and spirit of all laws and regulations governing politi-

cal contributions, gifts and lobbying. When we advocate for proposed

laws and regulations or debate on emerging issues, our intent is to take a

constructive approach to address legitimate business and societal needs.

ChevronTexaco engages in public policy debates and advocates our posi-

tion at the local, state and federal levels; participates in trade associations

and other advocacy organizations; and lobbies public bodies and ofﬁcials.

In the United States and Canada, where permitted by law, ChevronTexaco

makes political contributions under corporate policy. ChevronTexaco

operates under self-imposed procedures that require strict review of every

political contribution to ensure compliance with all requirements for

contributions, lobbying activities and gifts at every level of government.

The ChevronTexaco Employees Political Action Committee (CTEPAC) is

a forum for eligible employees, stockholders and stockholder retirees to

voluntarily contribute limited amounts to a fund that supports the elec-

tion of candidates for federal and certain state ofﬁces in the United States,

as authorized by and in accordance with applicable laws. CTEPAC pro-

vides a collective mechanism for ChevronTexaco employees to exercise

their right to participate in the public policy process. A list of contribu-
tions made during 2001–2002 can be viewed on the Federal Election

Commission Web site.

It is ChevronTexaco’s policy to furnish a list of all political contributions

to any stockholder upon request.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Revenue Transparency

Background: Addressing a Complex Issue

> that civil society organize and engage constructively, while continuing

Governments in some countries where energy development takes place –

to monitor the process and remind its participants of the opportunity

particularly those in the developing world – have been accused of lacking

we all have to work together to affect real change;

> that private-sector companies continue to demonstrate their commit-

ment to implement the agreed-upon aims of the EITI initiative. For

our part, we have pledged our own commitment to do so.

sound governance systems, condoning corruption and failing to distribute

the beneﬁts of their energy resources to their citizens. This is an enor-

mously complex issue that straddles subjects such as sovereignty of

foreign governments, the “ownership” of the resources themselves,

sanctity of contracts and the appropriate role of companies in seeking

to inﬂuence governments to better account for and manage these

signiﬁcant sums.

Over the past few years, a variety of efforts have emerged advocating for

greater transparency about the amounts and sources of revenues gener-

ated by the extractive industries. Many believe that such transparency

would increase the accountability of governments to demonstrate how

those funds are used for the beneﬁt of their citizens.

Approach: Participating in Voluntary Initiatives

Transparency is one of the fundamental values that guide ChevronTexaco’s

business conduct, and we have participated in the dialogue associated with

many recent revenue transparency initiatives. A consistent message from

ChevronTexaco has been that for any of these initiatives to be meaningful

and achievable, they must honor the sanctity of contracts; be inclusive of

governments, nongovernmental organizations and companies, without a

unilateral focus on any one; and remain voluntary.

ChevronTexaco views the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative

(EITI), sponsored by U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair, as a meaningful

attempt to tackle this difﬁcult issue. ChevronTexaco is proud to have

participated in the constructive dialogue process that EITI launched,

one that brought together governments, industry, international ﬁnancial

institutions (IFIs) and nongovernmental organizations to address a dif-

ﬁcult global issue.

ChevronTexaco has pledged its support to the Blair EITI, while at the

same time issuing a challenge to all participants:

> that the G8 Governments who now drive the EITI initiative be prepared

to share leadership with host governments;

> that the IFIs, especially the International Monetary Fund, be prepared

to dedicate the resources and commit the necessary political will and

persuasive powers to carry it forward;

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

13

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Community Engagement

Background: Local Communities are Key Stakeholders

transfer a sense of responsibility. We also see further opportunities to

The ChevronTexaco Way states simply, “We will beneﬁt the communi-

develop and conduct activities in genuine collaboration with host

ties where we work.” Across our operations, we develop, support and

communities to create shared ownership of the outcomes. We also are

participate in a range of community programs and activities with the

looking to develop more long-term relationships with nongovernmen-

goal of positively contributing to the quality of life where we operate. In

tal and multilateral organizations, recognizing that the skills, expertise

addition to being a visible expression of our values, developing trusting

and resources brought to a collective effort can increase the impact any

relationships with our host communities and helping address their

one sector can have alone.

needs is an important component of our license to operate and, ulti-

mately, our business success.

> Assessing and responding to community needs: ChevronTexaco busi-

ness units, working with local residents and, often, with nongovern-

But in many of the communities

mental or multilateral organizations, develop programs on a local

where we operate, poverty per-

level so that they can be tailored to meet individual community needs.

sists and multinational corpora-

Some business units have formal processes for engaging with local

tions such as ChevronTexaco

communities to assess their needs in advance of designing community

increasingly are being called upon

projects. Others are exploring ways to better engage with host com-

to ﬁll roles that have traditionally

munities, working to help them deﬁne their own needs and to allow

been the domain of government,

the company to gain a deeper understanding of how we can help

such as providing health care,

address them.

In the Philippines, the company’s

Street-to-School program provides

vocational training and scholarships.

education and basic infrastruc-

ture. We believe that as a private-

sector company we cannot – and

should not – take on the role of

government. But we believe we

can make many meaningful contributions to improving the quality of life

in the communities where we operate and are focusing our resources

toward helping to address these issues.

Approach: Working to Increase Our Positive Impact

Our goal is to be recognized as a leader in our industry in community

engagement and development. We are proud of the many positive con-

tributions we have made in the communities where we operate but also

believe we can improve our effectiveness and increase the positive impacts

we have in those places. As a result, we are taking an in-depth look at our

approach in these areas, focusing on being more systematic in how we

identify, assess and address community issues and more focused in the

ways we support the communities where we operate. We are looking at

issues such as:

> Measurement and evaluation: ChevronTexaco is looking at new ways

to measure and monitor the long-term impacts and effectiveness of

our community engagement and development programs. We believe

there is a great deal we can learn in this area, and we are reaching

out to experts from nongovernmental and development organizations

to help us design and implement more effective measurement and

evaluation processes.

Performance: Examples of Our Activities

Across its operations, ChevronTexaco develops, supports and participates

in a broad range of community engagement and development activities.

In 2002, ChevronTexaco made community investments estimated at

US$ 62.8 million worldwide in

areas including education and

skills training, human capacity

building, health, small-business

development, arts, and the envi-

ronment. Over the past ﬁve years,

ChevronTexaco’s community

2002 Estimated Global  
Community Investments
Percent of total 62.8 Million

Middle East  ($0.7)
Europe  ($1.0)
Latin America  ($3.4)

Asia Pacific  ($6.1)

Eurasia  ($8.4)

Africa  ($14.1)

North America  ($29.0)

100

80

60

40

20

0

Note: Includes ChevronTexaco share in affiliates. 
Amounts are in millions of $U.S.

> Sustainability of projects: We are working to better understand what

investments (or the combined

makes community projects and activities have truly lasting impacts,

investments of the two legacy

not just in terms of ﬁnancial sustainability but also in building the

companies) have been essentially

human and institutional capacity necessary to sustain long-term social

consistent year over year, ranging

and economic development. We recognize that we can more effectively

from approximately US$55 mil-

work with local governments to help secure future funding and

lion to US$63 million annually.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

14

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Community Engagement (Continued)

The following are illustrative 

governmental partners to expand the program nationwide. A com-

of our community programs,

panion program launched in late 2001, the Caltex In-Plant Training

reﬂecting the geographic diver-

Program, provides practical work experience for the older youth in

sity of our operations and vari-

the program at the company’s Xpress Lube stations and with Caltex

ety of community activities:

retailers. In 2002, the Street-to-School program won the Institute of

> Skills Development in

Petroleum’s community initiative award.

Nigeria: Chevron Nigeria 

> Supporting Education in Saudi Arabia: In Saudi Arabia and the

Ltd, ChevronTexaco’s afﬁliate

Partitioned Neutral Zone, Saudi Arabian Texaco (SAT) contributes

in Nigeria, and the Nigerian

to health, education and cultural initiatives, including sponsoring

National Petroleum Corp.,

the Al-Jasser Library in Saudi Arabia, which helps preserve the her-

Politeknik Caltex Riau, sponsored

by Caltex Paciﬁc Indonesia, is the

ﬁrst university of its type in central

Sumatra.

in partnership with the International Foundation for Education and

itage of the Arabian Peninsula. SAT also sponsors the Al-Birr Chari-

Self-Help and the Nigerian Opportunities Industrialization Centres,

table Society, which addresses the social and economic needs of

have developed the Technical Skills Acquisition Project. The project

Saudi citizens, providing training in a range of skills, as well as a

provides a yearlong job training program for youth in remote Niger

number of other education programs and institutions.

Delta communities, where unemployment is acute. About 160 men

and women have completed the program since it was started in 1996,

and half have found paid employment in their ﬁeld. ChevronTexaco

has invested more than US$1 million in the project and plans to

expand the program to 120 trainees per year.

> Small Business Development in Kazakhstan: In 1999 in Atyrau,

Kazakhstan, Chevron Muniagas Inc. (CMI), ChevronTexaco’s wholly

owned subsidiary, launched a Small and Medium Enterprise (SME)

Program, in partnership with the United Nations Development Pro-

gram, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and

> Technical Institute in Indonesia: In Riau Province on the Indonesian

the U.S. Department of State. CMI and its partners created the three-

island of Sumatra, PT Caltex Paciﬁc Indonesia (CPI), a ChevronTexaco

year SME Program with the goal of making community investments

subsidiary, sponsored the Polytechnic Caltex Riau (PCR), the province’s

that promoted sustainable, grassroots economic development. The

first elite polytechnic university. PCR offers study programs in com-

SME Program transferred entrepreneurial skills to local businesses,

puter science, telecommunications and electrical engineering. During

funded low-interest and no-collateral loans to Atyrau entrepreneurs,

its ﬁrst year of operation in 2001, some 640 students – more than

and helped prepare nearly 280 business plans, of which more than

triple the capacity at the time – applied to the polytechnic. By 2010, the

25 percent were approved for loans. The program concluded, as

campus expects to enroll 5,000 students. The school is adding new

planned, in 2002.

study programs in 2003 and 2004 that match the province’s business

needs and contribute to its economy. CPI’s support of the university

includes capital outlays of US$5.45 million and operating funds for

the ﬁrst three years, estimated to be approximately US$1.3 million.

> Increasing Literacy in Latin America: Throughout Latin America and

the Caribbean, ChevronTexaco supports a variety of community pro-

jects, including building medical and dental facilities, providing homes

for orphans, and drilling water wells. In particular, ChevronTexaco and

> Helping Street Children in the Philippines: Caltex (Philippines) Inc.,

its partners focus on supporting education projects in the region. In

a wholly owned ChevronTexaco afﬁliate, is working with the govern-

Venezuela, for example, 2,500 students have beneﬁted from school

ment to help Philippine street children move out of poverty. The

restoration projects that the company has supported since 1996. In

Caltex Fund Street-to-School program, which was started in 1999 in

Brazil, 3,000 adults and children attained basic language competency

partnership with two nongovernmental organizations in Manila, has

skills through the company’s national literacy program. In Colombia,

provided shelter, scholarships and training for nearly 500 young people

a cultural and learning center built by the company serves 6,000 local

since the program began. Indirectly, the program affects thousands

children. In Argentina, ChevronTexaco’s local afﬁliate and a partner

more who participate in various livelihood and skills training initia-

built Ruca Quimpen, a school that provides lodging, food and med-

tives sponsored by Caltex. In 2002, Caltex brought in several newnon-

ical services to 40 children and their families.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

15

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Community Engagement (Continued)

Case Study >

Angola Partnership Initiative

> Science and Math Education in North America: Since 1991,

ChevronTexaco has sponsored Family Science, a program designed 

In 2002, as Angola emerged from 30 years of civil war, more than one-third

to build interest and skills in science and math. The program encour-

of its population was displaced, and the social and economic fabric of the

ages children of diverse backgrounds, especially minorities and females,

country was torn. ChevronTexaco, whose wholly owned subsidiary Cabinda

to consider science-based careers. Family Science includes workshops

Gulf Oil Company Limited has operated in Angola since the 1950s, has been

for teachers, parents and students in select locations in the United

one of the largest foreign investors in the country. With the ending of the

States, Mexico and the Philippines. By including parents in the training,

Family Science increases the likelihood that learning and an interest in

science will continue outside the classroom. Since 2001, more than

200 workshops have been held, and multiple scholarships have been

given to instructors to expand the program in other communities.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

16

war, we resolved to expand our

ongoing community programs to do

something that would have a mean-

ingful impact in helping the people

of Angola recover from their

decades of strife.

The Angola Partnership Initiative

After research and discussion with

is helping more than 3,000

key stakeholders, ChevronTexaco

Angolan families through its

initiated a major new program, the

support of small-scale farming.

Angola Partnership Initiative. The

mission of the Initiative is to build

human capacity with a focus on the development of small and medium-

sized enterprises. The primary focus areas of the program are:

> strengthen the supply of vocational training,

> expand the supply of micro-credit,

> introduce business development services, and

> strengthen the enabling environment for social 

and economic development.

Under the initiative, we have developed formal partnerships with the United

States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the United Nations

Development Program (UNDP). Together, we have established a combined

goal to raise US$50 million to support this initiative. Additional partnerships

and alliances are under discussion. ChevronTexaco has committed US$25

million to support this effort.

Two projects already launched under the initiative are a program to support

the revitalization of the agriculture sector and the formation of a new micro-

credit bank. Both projects focus on job training and creation, and provide

technical assistance and ﬁnancial stimulus for locally owned small and

medium enterprises.

The agricultural effort combines immediate hunger relief to the most vulner-

able segment of society and longer-term agricultural development through

seed multiplication and seed variety experiments. It also supports the cre-

ation of some 200 farmer associations. This effort is designed to support

approximately 160,000 rural families – representing more than 600,000

individuals – with the goals of increasing food security, decreasing reliance

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

Angola Partnership Initiative 

Case Study >

Community Development 
in Papua New Guinea

on importation of seed, creating better access to markets and information

and, ultimately, increasing rural incomes.

The planned Angola Enterprise Development Bank will provide small loans

and other banking services to low-income Angolans and small businesses.

The bank intends to ﬁll a need for small-scale credit that is not currently

covered by the commercial banking sector. In addition to ChevronTexaco,

the other stakeholders in the bank are major European development insti-

tutions which are working for the ﬁrst time in Angola.

In 2001, Chevron Niugini Ltd.

(CNLG), in partnership with the

World Wildlife Fund (WWF), formed

the Community Development Initia-

tive Foundation (CDI), an independ-

ent, nonproﬁt organization working

on community development issues

in the region. Between 2001 and

2003, ChevronTexaco and its joint

Papua New Guinea children learn

about disease prevention.

In addition to providing ChevronTexaco a vehicle to make a contribution to

venture partners provided US$4.8 million (of which approximately $875,000

Angola’s recovery, our involvement in the Angola Partnership Initiative has

was ChevronTexaco’s share) in grants and operational support to CDI.

provided us with invaluable experience in developing long-term, mutually

beneﬁcial partnerships with nongovernmental and multilateral organizations.

We have also found that it has helped us bring together interested parties

to seek ways to be more efﬁcient in our collective efforts.

In addition to furthering WWF’s efforts to protect natural resources, CDI

brings social services to rural communities affected by the oil industry,

providing programs in health, education, agriculture, skills development

and cultural preservation, in support of government efforts.

CDI is a unique model for ChevronTexaco’s community engagement because,

in launching the foundation, the company created an independent opera-

tional entity with its own staff, facilities and mission solely focused on

community development. CDI assumed responsibility for Chevron Niugini’s

existing community development programs, bringing to it the foundation’s

network of expertise on development issues, as well as the trust of com-

munity members. CDI blends both social and environmental considerations

into one coordinated approach and is one of ChevronTexaco’s best exam-

ples of a comprehensive community development program, designed to

thrive long after a region’s oil stops ﬂowing.

In what will prove to be a test of CDI’s sustainability, in 2003 ChevronTexaco

sold our Papua New Guinea oil operations, a move the company currently

believes will not affect CDI’s continued operations. After receiving initial

funding from ChevronTexaco and its joint-venture partners, CDI began

soliciting funding from other sources to help guarantee its growth

and survival after ChevronTexaco’s – and ultimately the oil industry’s – exit

from the region.

ChevronTexaco believes that our experience with CDI has provided valuable

learning about effective community engagement and innovative approaches

to making a positive and lasting contribution to the communities in which

we operate. To capture this learning and apply it elsewhere in our operations,

ChevronTexaco has commissioned an independent review and analysis of

CDI. After its planned completion in 2003, the ﬁndings of the review will

inform ChevronTexaco’s future community engagement activities around

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

the world.

17

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Human Rights

Background: The Private Sector’s Role

experts, addresses and provides guidance on issues such as employment

The private sector can play an important role in the promotion of human

standards, security, conﬂict zones, indigenous peoples and human

rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights – which is widely

rights assessments. We believe the statement will serve the following

considered the most important foundational document on human rights

practical functions:

– states that “every organ of society” has the obligation to further human

rights. But given the complex nature of human rights issues, determining

the appropriate roles and responsibilities of private, public and civil sector

> provide operational guidance for ChevronTexaco 

employees and partners;

actors is a delicate and evolving task.

> act as a framework for constructive dialogue with 

ChevronTexaco, along with other companies in the energy industry,

external organizations;

often operates in countries where there is civil and political unrest, and

> be the starting point for company measurement 

with this can come allegations of human rights violations. ChevronTexaco

of and reporting on performance.

and others have a direct interest in operating in environments where

the rule of law is applied fairly and consistently, and where individuals

are treated with respect and dignity. As a result, over the past several

years, companies have come to place greater attention on the promo-

tion of human rights.

Future Goals: Developing and Testing a Global Approach

We know developing a Human Rights Statement is only a ﬁrst step. We

are testing application of our statement in select locations, including

some where we face signiﬁcant human rights challenges. We intend to

use this testing to gain a fuller understanding of how to apply the state-

Approach: Respecting Human Rights in Our Operations

ment in an operational environment, determine where human rights

As expressed in The ChevronTexaco Way, we support universal human

considerations can be more systematically integrated into existing man-

rights and, in conducting our operations, we seek to uphold and respect

agement processes, and how we can measure and monitor our perform-

human rights principles, consistent with the role of business. We also are

ance more effectively. We also intend to develop additional guidance,

founding supporters of the Global Sullivan Principles, which address a

tools or training to support the implementation of the statement. Based

range of human rights issues. We are committed to working with govern-

on the results, our aim is to revise and ﬁnalize the statement and begin

ments, our business partners, nongovernmental organizations and the

corporatewide implementation in 2004.

communities where we operate to develop a fuller understanding of

human rights issues, how they apply to our company and what we

can do to make a contribution consistent with our appropriate role.

We see this as an important step toward the furthering of human

rights worldwide.

Case Study > 

Human Rights Dilemma in Angola

ChevronTexaco has long addressed many of the issues that fall under

A recent event in Angola illustrates the challenging and complex issues

the umbrella of human rights, such as employment practices, nondis-

related to human rights and the boundaries of responsibility between the

crimination, health and safety, and security of employees and company

public and private sectors. ChevronTexaco faces these issues in many of the

facilities. In 2002, we reviewed our policies, systems and practices to

locations where it operates. 

determine how we might encourage better performance in this area,

including more systematically integrating human rights considerations

into our day-to-day operations. We also have engaged external stake-

holders and human rights experts to assist us in this effort.

In December 2002, a report issued by the Coalition for the Reconciliation,

Transparency and Citizenship – a group composed of several non-govern-

mental organizations, Angolan unions and the Ad Hoc Commission for

Human Rights in Cabinda (which was formed by six citizens in the Angolan

As a ﬁrst step following the review, we have developed a draft Human

province of Cabinda) – alleged that the Cabinda Gulf Oil Company (CAB-

Rights Statement, which builds on The ChevronTexaco Way and further

GOC), a wholly owned subsidiary of ChevronTexaco operating in Angola,

deﬁnes our commitments and approach in this area. The statement, which

“should stop the complicity in allowing police investigations in the

was developed in consultation inside the company and with outside

Malongo camp.”

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

18

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

Human Rights Dilemma in Angola

Security

Background: Protecting People is a Core Value

Within the CABGOC operating compound – called Malongo – there is a

ChevronTexaco believes it has an obligation to protect the security of its

Cabinda Province Law and Order police post. The post, which is operated

employees, assets and the facilities it operates. Protection of people is a

by the local police force independent of CABGOC, has been in Malongo for

core value at ChevronTexaco.

decades. It is not unlike ﬁnding a police station within an airport or a large

train station, providing basic civil law and order for, in this case, thousands

of employees living and working in Malongo. 

Like other companies in the oil and gas industry, we operate in some

environments where conﬂict and other security risks are present. In

some of these locations, our people and assets are protected and secured

CABGOC management was troubled by this allegation and conducted an

with the support of public or private security forces.

internal investigation to determine the basis, if any, for this statement.

Three CABGOC employees involved in the incident from which the charge

stemmed were interviewed. CABGOC managers also met with the principal

members of the coalition that had authored the report to further under-

stand their speciﬁc charge.

According to the information available, Cabinda police had brought a

criminal suspect in for questioning to the police post in Malongo. The sus-

pect was a journalist, whom the police had charged with fabricating a

story about a presumed attack against the aircraft that ﬂies company per-

sonnel within the country. The police also had summoned to this meeting

two CABGOC supervisors, who were asked to comment on the allegations

the suspect was making, because the journalist cited CABGOC sources as

the basis for his story. Based on the results of the questioning, the jour-

nalist recanted and was released by the police.

In the end, no connection was made between the incident at the police

post and any CABGOC actions, other than the police bringing the suspect

into their post in Malongo. The police said it was easier to bring the sus-

pect to the post in Malongo (where the two CABGOC supervisors were sta-

Approach: Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights

ChevronTexaco participated in and supported the process of develop-

ing the U.S.-U.K. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,

released in December 2000. The Voluntary Principles came out of a

process that brought together extractive-sector companies, human

rights organizations, trade unions, and the governments of the United

States and United Kingdom to develop principles to guide companies

in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within a

framework that ensures respect for human rights and fundamental

freedoms. ChevronTexaco’s security practices take operational guid-

ance from the Voluntary Principles, which are consistent with The

ChevronTexaco Way and the company’s efforts to develop a corpo-

ratewide Human Rights Statement.

We regularly communicate our security expectations to the host gov-

ernments of the countries where we operate, our business partners, and

the private and public security forces we sometimes work with. In addi-

tion, we encourage the U.S. Government to promote an environment

where other governments take responsibility for effectively addressing

tioned) than it would have been to bring the two supervisors to police

human rights concerns.

headquarters in Cabinda.

But the lingering issue remains: What is the proper balance between a

local police force’s sovereign right to conduct its operations in its jurisdic-

tions and a company’s responsibility to seek to ensure that actions related

to its operations are conducted in a manner consistent with recognized

ChevronTexaco’s Global Security group regularly engages with the com-

pany’s worldwide business units, including conducting periodic formal

Security Management Reviews (SMRs). Incorporated into both the ongo-

ing engagement and the SMR process is an assessment of actions that

business units have taken to implement the Voluntary Principles in

human rights principles? These issues are especially important when a police

their operations.

post is in a company compound, or the investigations grow out of incidents

involving the company’s employees or property. ChevronTexaco – along with

other companies, governments and nongovernmental organizations – has

engaged in the U.S.-U.K. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights

and continues to work to apply these principles to help strike the proper

balance between these important concerns.

Individual ChevronTexaco business units are responsible for implement-

ing the Voluntary Principles in accordance with local laws and conditions,

an approach we feel is most appropriate given the complexities of oper-

ating in such a wide range of countries.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

19

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Health & Safety

Background: Our Goal is Zero

In addition to our focus on operational safety, ChevronTexaco pro-

Protecting the safety and health of people who work on our behalf or are

vides employees with a range of health and wellness programs and

affected by our operations is a core value at ChevronTexaco. In our view,

beneﬁts, which vary across our different locations. In some places,

every injury is preventable and our safety goal is simple: zero incidents.

where local medical services are inadequate, ChevronTexaco operates

Approach: Addressing 

Key Safety Challenges

clinics that serve the health needs of employees and their families.

Performance: Making Progress and Committed to Improve

We expect our business units to

We profoundly regret that 16 people died in ChevronTexaco work-related

manage health and safety issues –

incidents in 2002. While this number is down from the 2001 total of 23

alongside environmental issues –

fatalities, we view any work-related death as avoidable and are continu-

as rigorously as they manage all

ally striving to reach our goal of zero incidents.

Cape Town trainees tour 

a Caltex reﬁnery.

other aspects of their business.

In the deployment of our Opera-

tional Excellence Management

System, safety and reliability

have been the initial priority areas for the development of new compa-

nywide guidelines and performance expectations. Our approach to the

issue addresses our entire work force. We require contractors to meet

the same health and safety expectations as employees.

Although we are disappointed that we did not meet all of the aggressive

targets we set for ourselves in 2002, we are proud of the overall progress

we have made in improving our safety performance. Since 1999, we

have reduced our total rate of work-related injuries and illnesses by over

30 percent for employees and nearly 60 percent for contractors. Also

since 1999, our fatal accident rate is down by 70 percent for employees

and more than 40 percent for contractors. Additionally, several opera-

tions around the world have demonstrated that incident-free operations

We believe safe, reliable operations start with safe designs. ChevronTexaco

are possible. In 2002, we recognized more than 20 of our businesses –

facilities are designed and operated throughout their life cycle with the goal

representing more than 5,000 employees – for operating one year with-

of preventing injuries and minimizing health and environmental impacts.

out a single employee injury.

Following the 2001 merger of ChevronTexaco, we identiﬁed the follow-

ing key safety challenges:

> Motor vehicle crashes are the No. 1 cause of work-related fatalities.

> Contractors account for roughly two-thirds of the hours worked on

our behalf and more than 80 percent of work-related fatalities.

ChevronTexaco Work-Related Fatalities

Fatalities*

1999

2000

2001

2002

Employees

Contractors

4

20

4

14

2

21

1

15

> Computer-related repetitive stress injuries account for more than

*1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data 

are ChevronTexaco.

20 percent of employee work-related injuries.

To address these challenges, in 2002 ChevronTexaco established addi-

tional corporatewide performance expectations that build on our exist-

ing health and safety standards and programs. Speciﬁcally, we developed

additional guidance for our business units in contractor safety manage-

ment, motor vehicle safety, and repetitive stress injury prevention and

reliability. We also instituted a number of new safeguards and guidelines,

such as prohibiting cell phone use while driving on company business,

creating new contractual safety standards and conducting mandatory

computer workstation evaluations to assess those at risk of repetitive

stress injuries.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

20

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Health & Safety (Continued)

Motor Vehicle Safety*

Motor vehicle crashes  
per million miles driven

Total Recordable Incidents*

Recordable incidents  
per 200 thousand hours worked

5

4

3

2

1

0

2.0

1.6

1.2

0.8

0.4

0.0

99

00

01

02

99

00

01

02

Company vehicle crash rate

*1999–2001 data is Chevron, 2001 data 
are combined Chevron and Texaco, and 
2002 data are ChevronTexaco.

ChevronTexaco: Employees

ChevronTexaco: Contractors

American Petroleum Institute
Industry Benchmark: Employees

American Petroleum Institute
Industry Benchmark: Contractors

*1999–2001 data are combined 
Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data 
are ChevronTexaco.

Case Study >

U.S. Reﬁning’s Focus on
Safety Continues

In the early 1990s, the U.S. government’s Occupational Health and Safety

Administration issued new rules and guidelines covering “process safety

management” for the petrochemical industry. The move was a response to a

series of accidents the industry suffered from the mid 1970s to early 1990s.

At ChevronTexaco, we implemented new procedures to address with the

requirements of the new rules, and we also launched a complementary

safety and reliability initiative called Incident Free Operations (IFO) in the

mid 1990s. IFO aimed to determine the most common causes of serious

reﬁnery accidents and to systematically adopt practices to reduce their risk

of occurrence. A team studied years of reﬁnery incident data and identiﬁed

two clear areas of concern: failures of pumps and furnaces, both standard

equipment in every reﬁnery. 

We then set about tackling the issues related to these pieces of equipment.

In the process of analyzing incident data and root causes, we also applied

the lessons we learned to a broader spectrum of issues. For instance, we

developed a successful risk-based inspection program for pumps and fur-

naces. We then applied the same principles to improving the reliability of

ﬁxed equipment like vessels, columns, tanks and piping. Finding that our

reﬁneries followed different operating procedures for pumps and furnaces,

Future Goals: Setting a Target for Incident Reduction

we standardized those, as well as other basic procedures. To improve knowl-

Our ultimate goal is zero incidents. Our near-term target is to reduce

edge sharing, we created best-practice teams that communicate important

the total work force recordable incident rate by more than 25 percent

operational lessons and help drive the standardization of our operating and

each year, which would mean a rate of 0.25 injuries per 200,000 hours

maintenance practices across the various facilities. Our reﬁneries began to

worked by 2006.

consistently track their reliability and utilization rates, and used incident

data to address emerging problems.

Furnace Incidents in ChevronTexaco  
U.S. Refining

Cost

120

100

80

82.9

60

56.3

54.8

Number of
incidents
10

8

6

4

2

0

Our results in reducing incidents

due to furnace mishaps have

been dramatic. Losses due to fur-

naces have decreased from 20 to

25 percent of total reﬁning

losses prior to 1996, to less than

2 percent in 2002.

While we have dramatically

reduced serious reﬁnery inci-

dents due to pump and furnace

failures, a 1999 ﬁre caused by a

separated valve at our reﬁnery in

Richmond, California, shows us

that the risk of incidents is

always present, and so is the

40

20

0

15.0

3.0

4.2

1.0 3.4 4.1 6.5

1.1 0.8

91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02

Cost in millions of $U.S. (left scale)

Number of incidents (right scale)

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

21

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

U.S. Reﬁning’s Focus on
Safety Continues

Case Study >

Peer Observation Improves Safety

need for continuing improvement. With the simple conviction that accidents

If an employee working on a ChevronTexaco offshore platform in the Gulf

are avoidable, employees at ChevronTexaco’s reﬁneries are determined to

of Mexico happens to rush up a ladder one-handed, rest a hand near mov-

keep improving the safety and the reliability of their facilities.

ing equipment, or merely lift a box without bending at the knees, he or she

Case Study >

Repetitive Stress Injury  
Prevention Initiative

For a company with thousands of employees working around-the-clock in

oil ﬁelds, ships, reﬁneries and other industrial environments, the statistic

was surprising. Nearly two of every ﬁve workplace injuries reported in

Chevron in 1999 were sustained by people who were doing the same thing

over and over: working on computers.

is very likely to inspire a gentle correction from a concerned coworker. 

A successful program called Generating Awareness Through Observation

and Review, or GATOR, trains people to recognize all manner of workplace

hazards and avoid behaviors that put them at risk of injury. Employees 

on these offshore platforms routinely ﬁll out “observation cards” that give

feedback to coworkers – issuing compliments when a job is done right and

suggestions when it could be done more safely. The feedback reinforces safe

behaviors and suggests alternatives when something is unsafe. After six

years of GATOR, nearly all the employees take part, and the program has

been particularly successful in the Western Shelf Proﬁt Center where approxi-

Such Repetitive Stress Injuries (RSIs) can result if an employee’s work

mately 460 employees churn out about 5,000 observations each month.

station is not set up properly, or simply by the work habits of the person.

ChevronTexaco’s response to the RSI hazard was to create the ongoing

Repetitive Stress Injury Prevention program (RSIP), a risk based program

that focuses on early identiﬁcation and prevention. The highly structured

program includes awareness and training, assessments of work stations

and work habits (often using a web-based tool), behavior-based observa-

tion processes, early reporting of discomfort and rapid intervention when

a potential problem is discovered. We believe that our program is among

the best in industry.

So far our results are encouraging. The number of RSIs has dropped 32

percent from 2000 to 2002. And the injuries we are having are less severe.

Based on the data from our units with the highest risk for RSIs, in cases where

the employee is not able to work due to an RSI, the average number of days

lost per injury has dropped by almost 50 percent over the last four years.

Not surprisingly, injuries have declined dramatically as the number of obser-

vations has grown. Lost-time incidents in the Western Shelf’s organization

fell from 12 per year in 1998 and 1999 to zero in 2002. A companion program,

launched recently to increase contractor participation, is yielding similar

results. Workers believe that GATOR has led to their best safety performance

on record for their unit, which covers about 45 offshore platforms. As of mid-

year 2003, the unit has worked more than two years without an employee

lost-time injury, and more than 200 days with a contractor lost-time injury.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

22

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

HIV/AIDS & Other Infectious Diseases

Background: The Human and Business Impacts of Disease

to effectively combat HIV/AIDS across our operations and share our

HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases are press-

experiences with others.

ing global issues with signiﬁcant human impact and related social, eco-

nomic and political implications. Nowhere is the impact of HIV/AIDS

and these other diseases currently more apparent than in sub-Saharan

Africa, where ChevronTexaco is the largest U.S.-based investor. For

example, with 10 percent of the world’s population, Africa accounts for

70 percent of the world’s HIV/AIDS cases. Because the disease primarily

strikes people in their 20s to 40s – the most productive segment of the

labor force – it threatens to reverse economic and development strides

African nations have made over the past decade.

For individual businesses,

HIV/AIDS can challenge their

ability to operate. In some

African nations, the epidemic

may affect as much as 30 percent

of the labor pool over the next

20 years, according to the Inter-

national Labour Organization.

But HIV/AIDS is not limited to

Africa. According to UNAIDS and

the World Health Organization,

Eastern Europe and Central Asia

have the fastest-growing

HIV/AIDS epidemics worldwide.

ChevronTexaco helped build a blood

bank in Cabinda, Angola, which

reduced HIV cases caused by conta-

minated blood from 25 percent to 

1 percent.

Approach: Addressing HIV/AIDS on All Fronts

ChevronTexaco believes that multinational companies are important

participants in the global effort to ﬁnd solutions to HIV/AIDS and other

infectious diseases. ChevronTexaco’s HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention

programs in North America date from the 1980s, and since that time, the

company has developed and supported a variety of other HIV/AIDS pro-

grams throughout its worldwide operations.

ChevronTexaco’s approach to addressing HIV/AIDS starts with the

We are reviewing and assessing our worldwide HIV/AIDS programs and

practices. In addition to gathering information about own operations,

we are consulting with internal and external experts and reviewing lead-

ing companies’ approaches to HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment.

Future Goals: Developing a Global Policy

ChevronTexaco intends to adopt a corporatewide HIV/AIDS policy

designed to provide a global standard on such issues as nondiscrimina-

tion, testing, employee beneﬁts, conﬁdentiality and occupational health

and safety. We also are developing other tools and resources to help our

business units develop and implement HIV/AIDS programs tailored to

their countries or regions.

Case Study >

HIV/AIDS Programs in Africa

According to UNAIDS and the World

Health Organization, at the end of

2002 there were 29.4 million adults

and children living with HIV/AIDS in

sub-Saharan Africa. Approximately

3.5 million new infections occurred

there in 2002, and an estimated 

2.4 million Africans died from the

epidemic in that year.

ChevronTexaco is the largest U.S.-

based investor in sub-Saharan Africa,

ChevronTexaco was an under-

and HIV/AIDS – as well as other

writing partner in A Day in the

Life of Africa, an international

infectious diseases such as malaria

and tuberculosis – have had a pro-

premise that it is a preventable disease. Our awareness, prevention,

photojournalism project with

found impact on our employees and

voluntary testing, counseling and related programs focus on

proﬁts going to AIDS education.

their families, our contractors and

employees, their families and host communities. We also work with

our host communities throughout

governments, nongovernmental organizations, multilateral agencies

Africa. In addition to the human toll of HIV/AIDS, we also recognize that the

and international initiatives – such as the Global Business Coalition on

success of our company is linked inextricably to the health and productivity of

HIV/AIDS, the World Economic Forum’s Global Health Initiative, the

employees and the communities we operate in. ChevronTexaco is responding

United Nations, the U.S. State Department and the Corporate Council

by developing a range of programs aimed at combating HIV/AIDS and other

on Africa’s Task Force on HIV/AIDS – to expand our knowledge of how

public health issues in Africa.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

23

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

HIV/AIDS Programs in Africa

to Cabinda’s rising rates of HIV. In addition to striking similar age groups,

the diseases fuel one another: TB accelerates HIV’s progression, and HIV

Throughout our operations in Angola, Nigeria and South Africa, ChevronTexaco

increases the risk of developing TB.

promotes voluntary, conﬁdential testing, provides condoms to employees,

and gives anti-retroviral drugs to pregnant women to stop mother-to-child

transmission of AIDS. ChevronTexaco employees and their families receive

high-quality, comprehensive health care. In Nigeria and Angola, the com-

pany employs about 250 medical personnel and runs its own clinics and hospi-

In the Democratic Republic of Congo, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, Muanda

Oil Co., conducts annual HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns for hundreds of

employees, contractors and their families, one of the few such efforts in

that nation.

tals. In South Africa, the full scope of HIV/AIDS treatment services,

Additionally, in 2000, ChevronTexaco provided funding for “cyber training”

including anti-retroviral drugs, are delivered to employees and their families

about HIV/AIDS through the Women’s Media Center to equip African jour-

by medical aid service providers. The company also developed an HIV/AIDS

nalists with knowledge about the disease, and how it is spread and to pro-

awareness and communication program, training more than 50 staff mem-

vide special training on reporting and writing about HIV/AIDS in Africa. In

bers to ensure ongoing awareness on HIV/AIDS among staff.

2002, ChevronTexaco was also a proud sponsor of the photo-documentary

Over the last several years, ChevronTexaco’s African business units have

been working to more closely coordinate their HIV/AIDS initiatives and

HIV/AIDS education in Africa.

book A Day in the Life of Africa, with all proﬁts from sales going to

better share information and learning across their different operations.

According to Dr. Steve Simpson, ChevronTexaco’s regional medical director

For example, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiaries in Angola and Nigeria have

in West Africa, the greatest remaining challenge the company faces related

developed an overarching HIV policy based on a successful Caltex (South

to its HIV/AIDS efforts in Africa is to ﬁnd a sustainable model for the deliv-

Africa) model. Representatives of the different medical departments are

ery of anti-retroviral therapy. In 2002, CABGOC set up a multidisciplinary

in regular communication, helping one another address practical issues.

task force to explore this and other issues. The task force is in the ﬁnal

stages of the project and will share its ﬁndings with other business units.

Summing up the company’s efforts, Simpson says, “No business anywhere in

the world, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, can afford to ignore AIDS. As

far as ChevronTexaco is concerned, this is a ﬁght we will not, cannot and

must not walk away from.”

In 2001, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL), a wholly owned ChevronTexaco sub-

sidiary, received the Award for Excellence by the Global Business Coalition

on HIV/AIDS for its awareness and prevention programs, dating back to 1993.

CNL’s program also was cited as a best practice by U.N. Secretary General Koﬁ

Annan. In early 2003, in recognition of the company’s efforts, CNL Managing

Director Jay Pryor was named by Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo as

co-chairman of the Nigerian Business Coalition Against HIV/AIDS.

As part of CNL’s HIV/AIDS program, union leaders act as peer educators 

in company workshops, teaching the causes and means of prevention of

HIV/AIDS and encouraging employees to discuss cultural barriers to pre-

vention. The company spreads its prevention message to the community,

where an interactive youth program uses peer educators and role playing

to target employees’ children. Education workshops in the broader com-

munity promote safe sex, especially to prostitutes.

In Angola, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, CABGOC, runs a number of HIV/AIDS

programs for employees, their families and the local community. In 1992,

the company also helped the government set up a blood bank in Cabinda,

Angola’s northernmost province, which reduced the number of HIV cases

caused by contaminated blood from 25 percent to 1 percent. CABGOC

also manages a related program to help the local government ﬁght tuber-

culosis (TB). Identiﬁed cases of TB have more than tripled in the province

since 1993, due in part to better diagnostics and awareness, but also due

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

24

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Employees

Employees are Key Stakeholders

Managing Work Force Issues

ChevronTexaco’s approximately 53,000 employees are critical to the

In 2002 we launched the ChevronTexaco global People Strategy, which

company’s success. ChevronTexaco seeks to provide employees with mean-

focuses on creating a global work force, valuing and managing diver-

ingful work, fair compensation,

sity, developing leaders and managing talent. The strategy is designed

opportunities to develop skills

to help us attract and retain the employees we need 

and knowledge, and honest and

to achieve our business goals. ChevronTexaco’s executive-level Human

regular feedback on their perform-

Resources Committee oversees our worldwide employee relations poli-

ance. ChevronTexaco also strives

cies, programs and performance. Individual operating companies and

to provide a work environment in

corporate departments have Personnel Development Committees to

which all employees are treated

manage work-force issues for their respective organizations.

with respect and dignity.

Historically, Chevron and Texaco conducted periodic surveys to gauge

Approximately 43 percent of

employees’ satisfaction, commitment to the company and opinions on

ChevronTexaco employees in

California’s San Joaquin Valley.

ChevronTexaco employees are in North America, 26 percent in Asia-

a range of other issues. Both worldwide surveys and localized or “pulse”

Paciﬁc, 14 percent in Africa, 9 percent in Europe and the Middle East,

surveys were used. In 2004, we plan to conduct our ﬁrst worldwide

and 8 percent in South America. In the United States, approximately

employee survey since the merger. The results of this survey will be an

11 percent of ChevronTexaco’s U.S. work force is unionized.

important indicator of our performance in employee relations and will

serve as the baseline for tracking our performance over time. In the

future, we intend to conduct regular employee surveys and report their

major ﬁndings.

Geographic Breakdown 
of ChevronTexaco Employees

South
America

Europe &
M. East

8%

9%

Africa
14%

North
America
43% 

Asia-
Pacific
26%

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

25

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Diversity

Background: Respecting

Policy on Nondiscrimination

Diversity is a Core Value

ChevronTexaco’s Employment Policy states that in any aspect of

Respect for diversity is one of

employment, no individual will be discriminated against based on

ChevronTexaco’s core values. To

race, color, religion, gender, national origin, citizenship, age, sexual

us, this means appreciating the

orientation, disability, veteran status or other status protected by law.

uniqueness of individuals and

their varied perspectives and fos-

tering an inclusive environment

where every person can fully

participate. Throughout our

global operations, we encounter

diversity in a variety of forms,

and we recognize that in differ-

Employees Ken Davis and Linda Horton

amidst colleagues in Houston. 

ent parts of the world, diversity is deﬁned differently. ChevronTexaco

deﬁnes diversity in the broadest sense to include attributes such as race

and gender to experience and personal style. We believe promoting such

diversity and developing a work force that reﬂects the customers we

serve, the countries where we operate and the partners we work with

are essential for our long-term competitiveness.

In the United States, Texaco settled a signiﬁcant class-action employment

discrimination lawsuit in 1997. The suit, Roberts, et al. v. Texaco Inc., was

brought by 1,400 individuals who were current or former employees of

the company and alleged that Texaco discriminated against African

Americans in pay, promotions and workplace behavior. The settlement

agreement included a payment of US $115 million to the plaintiffs,

along with a one-time salary increase of about 11 percent for current

employees in the plaintiff class.

As part of the settlement agreement, an independent ﬁve-year Texaco

Task Force on Equality and Fairness was created. The role of the task

force was to oversee Texaco’s and, after the 2001 merger, ChevronTexaco’s,

implementation of a comprehensive human-resources program designed

to help ensure fairness and equal opportunity for employees. When the

task force released its ﬁnal report before disbanding as planned in 2002,

it noted, “ChevronTexaco has been a responsive partner and has enthusi-

astically assumed responsibility for the human resources initiatives previ-

ously undertaken by Texaco to promote fairness and equal opportunity

for company employees.”

ChevronTexaco’s approach to diversity reﬂects the knowledge that Texaco

gained as part of the settlement agreement and task force review. Our

vision is to be recognized globally as a leader in diversity, and we are

committed to continual improvement.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

26

Approach: Creating an Inclusive Workplace and Diverse Work Force

We use a variety of tools, strategies and approaches to help attract, retain,

develop and support a diverse, world-class work force. ChevronTexaco

also takes steps to provide a working environment free of discrimina-

tion or harassment. For example, since the early 1990s, the company

has required all U.S. employees to take anti-harassment training. The

company does not tolerate retaliation against employees who exercise

their rights under existing anti-discrimination laws.

ChevronTexaco’s executive-level Human Resources Committee over-

sees corporatewide diversity programs and activities. The company’s

Global Diversity Manager, who is responsible for the company’s stra-

tegic direction, objectives and metrics related to diversity, reports directly

to ChevronTexaco’s CEO. Many ChevronTexaco operating companies

also have their own Diversity Councils that develop programs to foster

diversity as is applicable in their respective locations. As part of the

annual review process, most employees develop and are then assessed

against a Diversity Action Plan that describes how they will support

diversity. For members of ChevronTexaco’s executive and management

committees, performance against their Diversity Action Plans is a com-

ponent in determining individual compensation.

In the United States, through our Minority Outreach Program, we work

with and contribute to a variety of outside organizations that support

or help attract minorities into the disciplines we hire from. For example,

ChevronTexaco partners with the INROADS scholarship and internship

program, which helps prepare minority students for management careers.

As part of our campus recruiting process, we recruit at several historically

minority colleges and universities as well as through minority organiza-

tions at other universities.

ChevronTexaco also supports a number of employee networks and

afﬁnity groups that bring together employees with common goals,

interests and backgrounds. The groups focus on mentoring, develop-

ment, recruitment, community volunteerism, cultural awareness and

support for the company’s diversity objectives. Membership in the

networks has grown to almost 4,000 employees worldwide.

Case Study >

Diversity Mentoring Program

ChevronTexaco Global Lubricants (CTGL) markets more than 3,500 lubricants

and coolants around the globe and is ranked among the top three global

lubricants companies. CTGL believes that its success depends not just on

product quality, but also on developing a work force that mirrors the global

diversity of its customers. “Having a diversity of backgrounds and views

gives us a unique advantage,” says Shariq Yosufzai, president of Global

Marketing for downstream. “The varied perspectives of our colleagues help

us better anticipate market challenges and forge better solutions. We must

look and think like our customers.”

An innovative mentoring process helps CTGL cultivate a diverse manage-

ment team. Each of the 15 members of the Global Lubricants Leadership

Team mentors up to three visibly or globally diverse employees. The goal

is to increase the number of diverse candidates for leadership positions

and 34 percent were women.

Globally, we are committed to

increasing the representation of

women and non-Caucasian

males in senior-level positions in

ChevronTexaco. At the end of

2002, of 317 executive-level

ChevronTexaco U.S. Employee Data

around the world, while also providing those leaders continued support

% minorities among total employees

to ensure that they, as well as the business, succeed.

% women among total employees

% minorities among officials and managers

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Diversity (Continued)

Performance: U.S. Employment and Senior Management Data

In the United States, companies are required to submit annual reports

on the composition of their U.S.-based work force to the Equal Employ-

ment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). See the table below for a

summary of data submitted to the EEOC.

Over the past several years, we have made continued progress in increas-

ing representation of minorities and women in our work force, despite

an environment of minimal hiring and downsizing. ChevronTexaco

also continues to be successful in hiring women and minorities in ﬁelds

where they have been traditionally underrepresented, such as petroleum

engineering. In the United States, of the 151 college recruits who accepted

ChevronTexaco employment offers in 2002, 46 percent were minorities

positions, 16.7 percent were held

% women among officials and managers

by women or non-Caucasian

males. In 2002, ChevronTexaco

% minorities among professionals

established a diversity objective

for senior-management posi-

tions, including incorporating

the objective into the incentive

bonus plan, and we plan to

monitor and measure our prog-

ress against it over time.

% women among professionals

0

10

20

30

4

ChevronTexaco’s 2002 U.S. employment data

Chevron and Texaco 1996 U.S. employment data*

*Percentages represent the combined data for 

the two legacy companies.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

27

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Global Work Force Development

Background: Hiring and 

> Angola: ChevronTexaco’s Angolan subsidiary, Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd.

Training Local Employees

(CABGOC), launched an effort to increase the percentage of Angolan

In recent years, as part of our

nationals within the company’s work force, particularly at the manage-

effort to develop a global work

ment level. New processes being employed include annually identifying

force, we have sought to ﬁll an

the development needs for employees, creating mentoring and training

increasing number of positions

programs to support and develop Angolan employees, and offering tar-

with employees who are citizens

geted development assignments to high-potential nationals. The effort

of countries where we operate,

already has brought results. In 2002, 85 percent of CABGOC’s total work

A computer class at Mina Saud,

rather than with expatriate

force was Angolan. At the professional and supervisor level, 64 percent

where Saudi Arabian Texaco operates

employees. These efforts stem

of the positions were held by Angolans, up from 53 percent in 2001. By

a storage and marine export facility.

from recognition of the business

the end of 2006, CABGOC’s goal is to nationalize 80 percent of its pro-

value of having a work force

fessional and supervisory staff.

that reﬂects the markets we serve and the communities where we

operate. Hiring and training local employees are also important ways

that ChevronTexaco contributes to the long-term social and economic

development of the communities where we operate. Additionally, some

governments where we operate have speciﬁc requirements regarding

work-force composition.

Approach: Developing a Representative Work Force

We seek to hire and train employees from the countries where we oper-

ate. In particular, we are working to continually increase the number of

local employees in management and technical positions. Many of our

business units have formal programs to recruit and train local employees,

in some cases partnering with universities or other institutions in the

community to provide training programs. Many also have mentoring or

coaching programs to help support and develop employees.

ChevronTexaco also seeks to provide employees with international

work experience to help them develop the skills and knowledge neces-

sary for the company to compete globally. For example, through our

corporate International Development Program, we provide high-

potential employees with opportunities to obtain undergraduate and

advanced degrees and work experience outside their home countries.

The program manages approximately 300 employee development

assignments each year. There are a variety of other such programs at

the business-unit level.

Performance: Demonstrating Success Worldwide

ChevronTexaco does not collect corporatewide data on employees’

country of origin, although many of our business units have set, and

measure performance against, speciﬁc work-force composition objec-

tives. For example:

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

28

> Latin America: ChevronTexaco’s Latin America Business Unit (LABU)

also has developed a program to increase the number of nationals

within its work force. In 2002, almost 90 percent of the work force was

made up of nationals, up from 85 percent in 2001. While the LABU has

made progress nationalizing its overall work force, it plans to focus spe-

ciﬁc attention on nationalization at senior levels. By the end of 2004, its

goal is to increase the number of nationals in management positions by

10 percent. The LABU also has a goal to increase the number of nation-

als on assignments outside their home countries by 10 percent.

> Kazakhstan: Tengizchevroil (TCO), ChevronTexaco’s joint venture in

Kazakhstan, employs about 3,500 people. In 1993, about 55 percent

of the jobs were held by Kazakh citizens. Since that time, TCO has

engaged in a variety of efforts to increase the number of nationals in

its work force. For example, TCO developed partnerships with local

universities to set up technical training programs to help build the

skills of the local work force. As a result, by 2002 the percentage of

jobs held by Kazakh citizens had increased to more than 77 percent.

> Saudi Arabia: More than 90 percent of Saudi Arabian Texaco’s (SAT)

nearly 700 employees are Saudi nationals. SAT has implemented a

variety of strategies aimed at increasing the number of jobs held by

Saudi nationals, including providing resources, education, training

and development opportunities to national employees at all levels.

SAT’s employee development programs focus on job performance

competencies and leadership skills. In recognition of these national-

ization programs, in 2003 SAT received the First Class Award of the

Prince Nayef National Awards.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Training & Development

Wages & Beneﬁts

Building Capabilities

Attracting, Retaining and Motivating Employees

Developing and nurturing employee talent is important for our long-

ChevronTexaco seeks to offer a competitively based total remuneration

term success. ChevronTexaco seeks to take an integrated and disciplined

package designed to attract, retain and motivate a highly competent,

approach to providing employees with training and other opportunities

global work force. We provide compensation and beneﬁt programs that

to help them develop the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to

are locally competitive and tied to the performance of the individual,

continue to expand their capabilities and contribute to the success of

his or her business unit and the company. The company’s goal is to

the company.

In Lafayette, Louisana, ChevronTexaco

employees attend a technical train-

ing course.

Managers identify the skills

required to achieve company

goals, assess employee talent,

identify skill gaps and create

development plans for talented

individuals. At company sites

around the world and online,

we offer training courses ranging

from compliance and technical

training to cross-cultural and

career-planning courses. Individual operating companies sponsor addi-

tional training, often in partnership with schools and other institutions.

Developing Leaders

maintain equitable salaries based on job responsibilities and perform-

ance. In 2002, ChevronTexaco’s total global payroll was approximately

US$2.9 billion.

Linking Pay and Performance

Our Performance Management Process is the foundation of our compen-

sation practices. The process requires the annual evaluation of employees

not covered by union contracts and may result in merit pay increases for

those employees. Many business units have rewards and recognition pro-

grams that provide cash and noncash awards for exceptional performance

on speciﬁc projects.

One element of the overall pay and beneﬁts program is variable pay,

which can provide cash payouts that are in addition to base pay and

are based on a variety of metrics, including the company’s performance

and, for many employees, environment, health or safety measures. The

Recognizing the importance of effective leaders, ChevronTexaco also

availability of such Success Sharing programs and how they are struc-

has designed programs speciﬁcally aimed at developing managers.

tured varies across locations and depends on a variety of factors, such

For example:

> The ChevronTexaco Leadership Forum (CTLF), one of our most

successful leadership development programs, is aimed at high-

potential managers. CTLF seeks to increase participants’ knowledge

of ChevronTexaco’s overall strategies and objectives and provide a

forum for information sharing and networking.

> The ChevronTexaco Advanced Management Program is a three-week

course that includes an on-site development assignment within

ChevronTexaco’s operations. In 2002, some 48 managers completed

the program.

> A new supervisor program is provided for ﬁrst-time managers, and

669 employees completed the course in 2002.

as local customs, regulations and the speciﬁc competitive compensation

environment. The ChevronTexaco Management Incentive Plan annu-

ally pays a cash award for performance to senior-level managers. The

ChevronTexaco Long-Term Incentive Plan, which rewards leaders for

achieving company goals and creating stockholder value, is designed to

align management interests with stockholders’ interests over a multi-

year time horizon.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

29

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Social Issues

Employee Dispute Resolution

Maintaining a Productive Workplace

ChevronTexaco strives to maintain a productive work environment

where employees are treated with dignity and respect, which provides

individuals with recognition and opportunities for growth and which

fosters collaboration and open communication among co-workers and

between employees and their managers.

If disputes or interpersonal conﬂicts arise, employees can use the com-

pany’s dispute resolution programs, which are designed to offer a safe,

fast and fair way to resolve disputes. Through our ombudsperson

program, employees can contact a ChevronTexaco ombudsperson, who 

is responsible for providing neutral, conﬁdential help and problem-

solving techniques. ChevronTexaco’s ombudspersons adhere to the Stand-

ards of Practice and Code of Ethics of The Ombudsman Association.

Employees also can access the company’s Steps to Employee Problem

Solution program. The program, developed by a team of employees, is

designed to offer a safe, fast and fair way to resolve disputes early and

in a neutral setting.

The company also provides a 24-hour ChevronTexaco hotline that can

serve as a problem-solving resource or mechanism for employees to

report issues or concerns. The hotline is accessible to all employees;

individuals not ﬂuent in English can use the hotline’s translation serv-

ice. All calls are conﬁdential, and employees can choose to make their

calls anonymously. Issues raised on the hotline are forwarded to the

appropriate individuals within the company for resolution.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

30

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Economic Issues

Introduction to Economic Issues Section

Financial Performance Data

Linking Financial Performance

The following highlights selected indicators of our ﬁnancial performance.

and Corporate Responsibility

Please refer to our 2002 Annual Report for more detailed information.

As a commercial enterprise,we are

responsible for effectively manag-

Net Income

ing our operations so we can pro-

Weak global economies, restrained

vide appropriate returns to our

demand for petroleum products

stockholders over time. We view

and lower production all took a

ﬁnancial performance and corpo-

toll on 2002 earnings. For the

rate responsibility as mutually

year, ChevronTexaco reported

reinforcing: Financial health is 

net income of $1.1 billion, com-

a prerequisite to our being able to

pared with $3.3 billion in 2001.

make a positive contribution to

The company’s ﬁnancial results

The Richmond Reﬁnery in California

moves some 340,000 barrels of raw

material and ﬁnished product daily

across its dock.

society, and operating in a socially and environmentally responsible way

were hurt by $3.3 billion of

contributes to our ﬁnancial success.

In our corporate Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commis-

sion and our stockholders, we share information about the ﬁnancial per-

formance of our company. But we understand that ChevronTexaco – like all

companies – also has economic impacts that are not captured in traditional

financial reporting and that go beyond the boundaries of an organization.

These impacts include how our operations contribute to or affect the larger

economies we operate in, at local, national and global levels. For example,

in 2002 ChevronTexaco’s total tax liability in the countries where we oper-

ate was US$19.7 billion. These impacts also include how we affect the

economic conditions, capacity and sufﬁciency of the range of stakeholders

affected by our business, including employees, suppliers, business partners,

host governments and those living in the communities we operate in.

About This Section

Although there are standard procedures for companies to measure and

report on ﬁnancial performance, there are not yet generally accepted

measures for reporting on their broader economic impacts. Companies

are experimenting with a variety of indicators in this area – including

wages and beneﬁts paid to employees, investment in work-force train-

ing and development, taxes paid to governments and money spent with

supplier companies – to help them assess their economic impacts.

In this section, we provide several key indicators of our ﬁnancial perform-

ance, as well as select information about our broader economic impacts.

We have chosen to focus on the issue of procurement and, in particular,

our efforts to contribute to economic development through our supplier

diversity, small business and local content programs.

charges from special items. About

$2.3 billion of these charges were

related to our 26 percent owner-

ship of Dynegy Inc., an energy

trading company that saw a dra-

matic decline in its market value

due to the near collapse of the

energy merchant sector.

Sales & Other Operating Revenues

Sales and other operating revenues

were $99 billion in 2002, down

from $104 billion in 2001 and

$117 billion in 2000. Revenues

from worldwide upstream opera-

tions decreased about 30 percent

on lower prices for natural gas,

particularly in the United States.

Sales volumes of natural gas were

also down in the United States.

Partially offsetting these declines,

sales revenues from reﬁned prod-

ucts increased in 2002, primarily

on higher prices late in the year.

Of the $98.7 billion of sales rev-

Net Income

Billions of $U.S.

8

6

4

2

0

$1.13

98

99

00 01 02

Net income for 2002 and 2001 included  
more than 3 billion $U.S. of special-item 
charges in each year. The decline in 2002 
mainly reflected exceptionally weak 
refined-product margins, lower U.S. 
natural gas prices and lower oil-equiva-
lent production worldwide.

$98.7

Sales & Other 
Operating Revenues

Billions of $U.S.

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

98

99

00 01 02

Sales and other operating revenues declined 
5 percent on lower U.S. natural gas prices 
and worldwide oil-equivalent production. 

We also are working to better understand our broader economic impacts

enues is the United Kingdom, where it generated $10.8 billion in 2002.

and identify additional measurements that provide information of value

to us and our stakeholders.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

31

enues in 2002, sales in the United States accounted for $43.6 billion.

The only other country where the company generates signiﬁcant rev-

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Economic Issues

Financial Performance Data (Continued)

Capital & Exploratory Expenditures

Cash Dividends Paid

Capital and exploratory expendi-

tures for 2002 totaled $9.3 billion,

including the company’s $1.4 bil-

lion share of afﬁliates’ expendi-

tures, which did not require cash

outlays by the company. Interna-

tional exploration and produc-

tion spending of $4.4 billion was

70 percent of worldwide explora-

tion and production expenditures

in 2002, compared with 66 per-

cent in 2001 and 62 percent in

2000, reﬂecting the company’s

continuing focus on interna-

tional exploration and produc-

tion activities.

Return on Average Capital Employed

Return on average capital

employed declined to 3.2 percent

primarily as a result of lower earn-

ings. The company’s ﬁnancial

results were hurt by weak global

economies and special charges

to effect the merger and charges

related to the write-down of an

equity afﬁliate that saw a dra-

matic decline in its market value

due to the near collapse of the

energy merchant sector.

Capital & Exploratory  
Expenditures*  

Billions of $U.S.

The company paid its stockholders

Cash Dividends Paid

nearly three billion dollars in 2002,

$U.S. per share

$2.80

3.00

2.50

2.00

1.50

1.00

0.50

0.00

98

99

00 01 02

Sales and other operating revenues declined 
5 percent on lower U.S. natural gas prices 
and worldwide oil-equivalent production. 

increasing its annual dividend pay-

out for the 15th consecutive year.

$9.26

12

10

8

6

4

2

0

98

99

00 01 02

Exploration & Production

Refining, Marketing 
& Transportation

Chemicals & Other

Capital and exploratory expenditures in 
2002 declined from a level in 2001 that 
included significant additional investments 
in the Dynegy and Tengizchevroil affiliates.

*Includes equity in affiliates

Return On Average  
Capital Employed 

Percentage

20

16

12

8

4

0

3.2

98

99

00 01 02

Return on average capital employed 
declined to 3.2 percent as a result of 
lower earnings.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

32
32

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Economic Issues

Supplier Diversity & Small Business Development

Contributing to Local Economic Development

Helping Build Local Economies Worldwide

To conduct our operations, we purchase a wide variety of goods and

In addition to our efforts in the United States, we have “local content”

services from external contractors and suppliers. In 2002, ChevronTexaco

programs to source from small, locally owned businesses in the commu-

spent approximately US$18 to $20 billion globally on such goods 

nities we operate in around the

Gibson Ola, manager of local business

development for ChevronTexaco’s

Nigeria operation, says the company’s

role in support of local content is

aligned with the goals of the country.

and services.

We strive to ensure our supplier base is reﬂective of our customers,

world. These programs are man-

aged at the business unit level.

host communities and the markets we serve. We also believe sourcing

In addition to buying goods and

from diverse, small and locally owned companies makes signiﬁcant

services from local suppliers,

contributions to local economic and human capacity development,

many ChevronTexaco business

and these efforts are part of our commitment to be a valuable member

units offer business planning,

of the communities we operate in. Therefore, as much as possible and

skills training and technology

practical, ChevronTexaco seeks to contract with small, locally owned

transfer programs, and they pro-

businesses and, in the United States, also from minority- and women-

vide ﬁnancing – including

owned businesses.

Supporting Supplier Diversity in the United States

In the United States, ChevronTexaco’s Small Business/Supplier Diversity

Program works to provide opportunities, contracts and outreach assistance

micro-loans – to help supplier

companies develop and expand.

We believe our local content

efforts are among the most signiﬁcant and sustainable ways we can

contribute to the economic and social development of our host

to small and minority- and women-owned businesses. The program has

communities.

U.S. Small Business/Supplier
Diversity Expenditure*

Millions of $U.S.

1,400

1,200

1,000

800

600

400

200

0

97

98

99 00 01

02

Small business

Women-owned business enterprise

Minority-owned business enterprise

*1997–2001 data are combined 

Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data 
are ChevronTexaco.

won numerous awards, includ-

ing induction into the Women’s

Business Enterprise National

Council’s “Elite 8” in 2003. We

are committed to monitoring and

reporting our progress toward

achieving our small business/

supplier diversity goals, and we

work to continually improve our

performance in this area.

Reﬂecting our commitment to

U.S. supplier diversity, over the last

six years, we have spent approxi-

mately US$8.6 billion with small

women- and minority-owned

business enterprises. In 2002,

we met our goal of spending 

25 percent of total goods and services spend with small businesses,

spending more than US$1.3 billion with small business suppliers in the

United States. We spent approximately US$212 million with women-

owned suppliers and nearly US$209 million with minority-owned

suppliers, although we fell short of our 5 percent contracting goal for

each of those groups, reaching just under 4 percent for each.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

33

Highlights of recent local content efforts include:

> Nigeria: Since 1999, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL) and the Nigerian

National Petroleum Corporation have had a formal local content devel-

opment policy promoting the use of qualiﬁed indigenous contractors

and suppliers. CNL has a dedicated Local Content Development Unit

to identify and support local supplier companies, including organizing

Local Content fairs to increase awareness and create opportunities for

Nigerian companies. In 1997, some 25 percent of company contracts

for goods and materials were with Nigerian ﬁrms. By 2002, that ﬁgure

had grown substantially, to 90 percent of contracts, representing 35 per-

cent of CNL’s total spending for materials and services going to Nigerian

indigenous and joint-venture companies.

> Angola: ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd., has

had dramatic success developing local Angolan businesses. The com-

pany has created a team dedicated to local business development,

which includes supporting start-up businesses in everything from

clothing manufacture to ﬁsh meal processing. In 2002, the company

spent more than US $230 million with local suppliers, exceeding its

local content goal by more than 275 percent. In total, 268 Angolan-

owned businesses supplied materials and services to ChevronTexaco’s

Angola afﬁliate in 2002.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Economic Issues

Supplier Diversity & Small Business Development (Continued)

> Venezuela: In the company’s Hamaca joint venture in Venezuela,

ChevronTexaco spent 62 percent of its procurement funds with local

suppliers by the end of 2002, exceeding the government’s local content

goal of 60 percent.

> Kazakhstan: ChevronTexaco’s joint venture Tengizchevroil (TCO)

met its 37 percent local content goal in 2002.

> South Africa: Caltex Oil (S.A.) established a task force to support the

South African government’s Black Economic Empowerment (BEE)

program. As part of the company’s BEE efforts, Caltex gives preferen-

tial treatment to Historically Disadvantaged South Africans; provides

support and training to small, medium and micro enterprises; and

supports companies that actively promote development and skills

transfer for their employees. The company increased the total amount

it spent on suppliers through the BEE program from 5 percent in

2001 to 23 percent at the end of 2002. For 2003, Caltex Oil (S.A.) has

Although the SBD loans play a relatively small part in helping TCO achieve

its aggressive targets for buying from Kazakh providers, they are an impor-

tant part of TCO’s community economic development commitment. In 2002,

TCO met its 37 percent local-content goal, spending more than US$415 mil-

lion on Kazakh goods and services. TCO is on target to meet its 2004 goal

of 39 percent local content.

Here are some success stories behind the SBD loans:

> Kazcomservice: The SBD group’s initial loan of US$350,000 in 1999,

followed by US$400,000 the following year, turned this four-person

telecommunications cabling company into one of TCO’s leading general-

purpose contractors. Kazcomservice now employs more than 900 people

in four locations around the country.

> AutoStroyService: To compete for TCO road repair work, AutoStroyService

needed funding to upgrade its machinery. SBD’s loan of US$150,000 pro-

vided the necessary equipment upgrades. The resulting increase in Auto-

StroyService’s business allowed the company to repay the 36-month loan

a goal to increase BEE purchasing spend to more than 25 percent of

in less than 12 months.

total spend on goods and services.

Case Study >

Developing Small Business  
in Kazakhstan

> Olzha Co.: Olzha, a TCO primary contractor providing rail cars, mainte-

nance and other transportation services, wanted to help develop a market

for naturalgas-powered vehicles in Atyrau, Kazakhstan. The company

received an initial US$300,000 loan from the SBD group. Olzha’s plan,

which includes a liqueﬁed petroleum gas ﬁlling station and ofﬂoading

rack, could provide healthy competition for the local monopoly. If Olzha

At ChevronTexaco’s joint venture in Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO), the

meets speciﬁc mutually agreed-upon goals, it could receive another

Small Business Development (SBD) group is working to help develop and

US$300,000 loan from the SBD group to further develop the business.

support small, locally owned companies in the country.

The SBD group was formed in 1997 and initially focused on funding com-

munity organizations or enterprises with social missions. In 2001, the

group refocused its efforts to speciﬁcally target small businesses that

could provide goods and services to TCO, although it still provides some

community-beneﬁt loans. Loans provided by the SBD group range in size

from US$5,000 to US$750,000. Since it was formed, the SBD group has

made 143 interest-free loans totaling nearly US$5.5 million and has

helped create more than 1,000 jobs.

Beyond simply providing the loans, the SBD group’s four-person staff takes

a hands-on role in working with loan recipients by providing technical or

business assistance as appropriate, ensuring timely payments, and helping

identify and address any problems the companies encounter. The SBD

group’s goal is to see that the businesses it helps develop are successful

and become self-sustaining.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

34

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Introduction to Environmental Issues Section

Striving for Environmental Excellence

About this Section: Working to Measure Performance 

Protecting people and the envi-

The environmental section of this report provides an overview of how

ronment is a fundamental part of

we are addressing a range of environmental issues across our operations.

The ChevronTexaco Way. Respon-

The issues addressed reﬂect our views on the most signiﬁcant environmen-

sible environmental stewardship

tal issues facing our company today. We have included corporatewide

of all aspects of our operations

performance data where available, although in many cases we provide

and our products is not only an

information on a country, operating company, business unit or facility

expression of our values but also

level. Where we mention a performance or process requirement for our

a business imperative.

business units, we typically are referring to a speciﬁc expectation con-

tained in our Operational Excellence Management System.

Case Study >

Environmental Protection 
on Barrow Island

Fishermen from nearby villages cast

their nets just offshore Chevron Nigeria

Ltd.’s oil and gas processing facility.

We understand and share the

concerns many people have

about the potential environmental effects associated with the develop-

ment and consumption of energy. These concerns range from effects

on air or water quality to community health in a particular location 

to the ways our industry and the use of our products can contribute 

to global climate change.

Our goal is to be recognized and admired for environmental excellence. We

are proud of the ways we are progressing toward that goal, such as mak-

ing sustained improvements in our energy efﬁciency. We also are commit-

ted to further integrating environmental considerations into our business

decisions and enhancing how we manage and measure our environmen-

tal performance. We are committed to continually improving our proc-

esses for minimizing pollution and waste, conserving natural resources,

On Australia’s Barrow Island, 227

responsibly stewarding our products, and enhancing our broader under-

native plants, 54 reptiles and 110

standing and management of the environmental aspects of our businesses.

types of birds thrive alongside

ChevronTexaco’s Health, Environment and Safety Policy provides the

framework for our approach to environmental issues. Our Operational

ChevronTexaco oil ﬁeld operations.

Excellence Management System (OEMS) provides speciﬁc corporatewide

1964, Barrow Island has seen more than 621 miles (1,000 km) of seismic

expectations for environmental performance and processes.

Focusing on Conservation and Efﬁciency

At the heart of our approach to environmental responsibility are conser-

vation and efﬁciency, two concepts that we believe offer tremendous

promise for minimizing the environmental footprint of our company

and industry. The principles of conservation and efﬁciency are integrated

across our operations, from exploration and production to distribution

and disposal. We seek to maximize the recovery of oil from a given reser-

voir, strive to continually improve our efﬁciency by getting more output

from each unit of energy we use, look for ways to limit our use of and

impacts on natural resources, and encourage consumers to use our prod-

ucts more efﬁciently. In doing so, we contribute to meeting the world’s

demand for energy while minimizing our total environmental footprint.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

35

surveys, nearly 900 wells drilled and production of almost 300 million bar-

rels of oil. Yet the island’s full suite of native species has been kept intact,

and through a strict quarantine program, ChevronTexaco has helped pre-

vent the introduction and spread of invasive plants and animals that has

proved disastrous for the indigenous species of so many other islands.

Now, as part of the Gorgon Venture, ChevronTexaco and its partners have

proposed developing natural gas from the offshore Gorgon Field, one of

the largest single gas ﬁelds ever discovered in Australia. Operated by

ChevronTexaco, the project would transport the gas 43 miles southeast to

Barrow, where it would be processed into liquid products and domestic gas.

Liquids would be shipped to customers in the Asia-Paciﬁc region, while gas

would be piped 50 miles (81 km) to the mainland. Total land disturbance

ChevronTexaco’s management of the

Barrow Island oil ﬁeld off Western

Australia is widely recognized as an

industry benchmark for the coexis-

tence of petroleum development and

biodiversity protection. The island, 

a Class A Nature Reserve, supports

14 terrestrial mammal species, 54

terrestrial reptile species and more

than 110 bird species – some of

which are extinct on Australia’s

mainland but thrive on Barrow. 

Since the beginning of operations in

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

Environmental Protection 
on Barrow Island

for the gas processing facilities and associated infrastructure would be no

more than 740 acres (300 hectares). The combined area used on the island

for oil operations and gas processing would remain at less than 5 percent

of the island.

At the request of the Western Australian government, Gorgon Venture part-

ners completed a comprehensive Environmental, Social and Economic (ESE)

Review of the project. The govern-

ment speciﬁed that the ESE Review

must demonstrate that the proposed

Gorgon gas development could gen-

erate social and economic beneﬁts,

maintain the conservation values of

the island as well as demonstrate

net conservation beneﬁts. This is

the ﬁrst resource development pro-

taxes and royalties. Annually, gross domestic product (GDP) would be

increased by $2 billion and projected exports by $1.2 billion. 

With government and environmental approvals, construction on the

Gorgon project could begin in 2005.

Case Study >

Conservation Awards Program

For nearly two decades, ChevronTexaco has underwritten the 49-year-old

Conservation Awards Program, the oldest such privately sponsored program

in North America. The program honors individuals and organizations for

their outstanding contributions to the conservation of natural resources.

Over the history of the program, the awards’ 1,000-plus recipients have

helped protect wildlife, create natural preserves, establish parks and

launch educational programs to heighten environmental awareness.

ChevronTexaco works to ensure

that native animals, such as this

perentie lizard, coexist with oil

ﬁeld operations.

posal subjected to such a comprehe-

In 2002, ChevronTexaco Conservation Awards were given for, among

nsive sustainability review process

other things, establishing an environmental radio show, setting up a civic

in Western Australia.

beautiﬁcation organization and producing educational habitat ﬁlms for

schoolchildren.

The project’s potential ecological impacts have been assessed by independ-

ent, specialized ecologists. Their work shows that the proposed develop-

ment would not result in signiﬁcant adverse impacts to important wildlife

habitats, restricted vegetation types or marine areas with unique conserva-

tion signiﬁcance. A key element of environmental management is building

on the existing robust quarantine procedures.

Although the development of Gorgon gas would bring substantial beneﬁts,

the gas ﬁeld does present some unique challenges. Gorgon gas contains

a relatively high content of carbon dioxide (CO2), which results in sub-

stantial treatment cost and potentially relatively large greenhouse gas

emissions. Barrow Island provides a unique opportunity to reinject CO2

into saline reservoirs deep beneath the island. Reinjection, combined with

current best practice in plant design, would make the development one of

the most greenhouse gas-efﬁcient projects of its type in the world.

In addition to using environmental best practices, the project also

would provide signiﬁcant economic beneﬁts. We expect the develop-

ment to provide some 6,000 jobs, directly and indirectly, throughout

Australia, of which 1,700 jobs would be in Western Australia. Over the

life of the project, we estimate there would be approximately US$6.5

billion in new investment and $10 billion in state and commonwealth

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

36

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Energy Efﬁciency

Background: Focusing on Efﬁciency and Conservation

In addition to being an energy provider, ChevronTexaco is also an

energy consumer. Like all companies, we use energy to run our opera-

tions and transport our products. Energy efﬁciency and conservation –

on the part of ChevronTexaco, other companies and society as a whole

– is essential for ensuring future access to energy at reasonable costs.

Improving the energy efﬁciency of our operations is also one of our key

strategies for managing our greenhouse gas emissions. Our focus on

energy efﬁciency applies to all aspects of our business, from extracting

oil to managing our ofﬁce buildings.

Approach: Tracking the Efﬁciency of All Operations

To track our performance, in 1991 we established an energy usage

index, now called the ChevronTexaco Energy Index (CTEI). The index

ChevronTexaco Energy Index 
1992–2002

100

80

60

40

20

0

92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02

Performance: Striving 

for the Highest Efﬁciency

ChevronTexaco’s total energy

consumption for the assets we

operate was 825 trillion BTUs

or 782 million GJ in 2002.

Rather than total use data,

however, the primary per-

formance indicator we use

internally is the

ChevronTexaco Energy Index.

The index allows us to meas-

ure the energy efﬁciency of our operating companies on a common

basis and assess trends in efﬁciency improvements, rather than energy

measures and represents in a single ﬁgure the energy required to pro-

use alone.

duce our products today compared with the energy that would have

been required to produce the same products in the base year. Our oper-

ations are included in the index by multiplying an output measure

closely related to energy consumption – such as cargo ton-miles for our

shipping company or square foot of building space managed for our

real estate company – by a unit energy consumption factor from the

base period.

Each percentage point reduction in the CTEI represents approximately

10 million gigajoules (GJ) less energy consumed, and it also equals

In 2001 and 2002, our operations reached their most efﬁcient level since

the inception of our Energy Index. We steadily have improved our

energy efﬁciency over the last decade, and in some businesses we have

made dramatic progress. For example, since 1991, Chevron’s North

American Products business units have reduced their energy consump-

tion index by 21 percent. This represents a nearly 2 point-per-year aver-

age improvement, compared with a 1 point-per-year average for the

U.S. reﬁning industry as a whole over that time period.

approximately US$35 million in savings for the company based on

Future Goals: Aiming for Continual Improvement

worldwide energy usage and costs in 2003 (Note: These numbers can-

Our goal is to continue to improve our corporatewide energy efﬁciency

not be used to analyze past years’ performance due to changes in busi-

in the future. In 2004, we will work to better manage the factors that

nesses and activities that make up the index). In the past, CTEI covered

inﬂuence energy efﬁciency in the business units we have recently added

only ChevronTexaco’s North American operations. But in 2002 the

to our index. ChevronTexaco’s North American reﬁning operations also

index was expanded to cover our international operating companies,

have joined with other American Petroleum Institute member reﬁning

and by the end of 2003, it will cover all assets we operate worldwide.

companies in committing to an industrywide 10 percent improvement

in energy efﬁciency between 2002 and 2012.

We employ a full-time Corporate Energy Coordinator responsible for

overseeing the company’s energy measurement efforts, as well as leading

Best Practice Energy Teams to expand our knowledge and practices for

continually improving our energy efﬁciency.

We also work with others to help them improve their energy efﬁciency.

Through Chevron Energy Solutions, a subsidiary of ChevronTexaco, we

design, arrange for third-party ﬁnancing and construct energy efﬁciency

measures and cogeneration facilities for commercial, industrial and pub-

lic sector customers.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

37

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Climate Change

Background: Addressing a Shared Concern

ChevronTexaco’s climate change strategy 

One of the environmental concerns we all share is global climate

consists of the following four-pronged approach: 

change. We recognize that the use of fossil fuels has contributed to an

1 Reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and increasing energy

increase in greenhouse gases – mainly carbon dioxide and methane –

efﬁciency: Our goal is to reduce emissions per unit output from

in the earth’s atmosphere.

One of the most critical environmental challenges facing the world today

is ﬁnding ways to provide and use reliable, affordable energy while reduc-

ing long-term growth in greenhouse gas emissions. Technology offers a

operations. We inventory our emissions and use innovative tech-

nologies to continually improve the energy efﬁciency of our existing

operations, new projects and products. We are incorporating green-

house gas emission assessments into our capital project evaluations.

variety of potential solutions, including efﬁciency improvements, CO2
capture and storage, use of biological sinks and the development of

The following are examples of where we have improved existing

processes or deployed new technologies that have resulted in reduced

commercially viable nonfossil fuel energy systems, including the poten-

greenhouse gas and other emissions:

tial evolution of a hydrogen fuel-based economy.

Approach: Implementing a Four-Pronged Strategy

ChevronTexaco recognizes and shares the concerns that governments

and the public have about climate change. We have developed a com-

prehensive program to manage greenhouse gas emissions, and it is

being integrated into our business decisions. For example, since 2001

> In Indonesia, we switched from crude oil to natural gas for ﬁring the

steam generators in the Duri Field in 1999 –2000, reducing emissions

of carbon dioxide by more than 1 million metric tons per year.

> In Kuwait’s Wafra oil ﬁeld and California’s Kern River oil ﬁeld, we

switched to natural gas to generate electricity and steam. These moves

also reduced carbon dioxide emissions by more than 1 million metric

we have required our businesses to integrate greenhouse gas emissions

tons per year.

analysis into the planning for all major capital projects.

ChevronTexaco believes that although fossil fuels are a ﬁnite resource,

they will continue to meet the vast majority of global energy demand

for at least the next 30 years. Energy from renewable resources, such as

wind and solar, is expected to contribute a small but growing fraction

to total energy sources. We invest in a variety of renewable and alter-

native energy technologies and believe that those energy sources will

be important in the overall mix of energy for the global economy in

the future. But widespread application will depend on many factors,

including the rate of technological development, market acceptance

and demonstration of economic viability.

In addressing climate change, ChevronTexaco works closely with gov-

ernments, academic institutions, nongovernmental organizations and

others to create environmentally, technically and economically sound

solutions. As a company with global operations, we are respectful of the

decisions made by the countries where we operate regarding the Kyoto

Protocol. Our businesses work closely with each country’s government

to manage greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and to help

our business partners and customers achieve their emissions goals.

> We have a number of projects under way that will signiﬁcantly reduce

routine ﬂaring of gas in our international upstream operations.

> In the United States, ChevronTexaco participates in cogeneration

projects that, together, produce enough electricity to power more

than 1 million homes. For example, two cogeneration facilities in

Kern County, California, with their high generating efﬁciencies as

compared with conventional gas-ﬁred simple-cycle power plants,

provide 600 megawatts of electricity while emitting substantially

less carbon dioxide.

> ChevronTexaco participates in the United States Environmental

Protection Agency’s (EPA) Natural Gas Star Program to reduce

methane emissions. In 2003, the EPA awarded ChevronTexaco a

Certiﬁcate of Achievement for its continuing accomplishments,

citing the company for “aggressively reducing methane emissions

and helping lead the way to reducing climate change impacts.” Our

U.S. upstream operating company removed a volume of emissions

equivalent to planting more than 1.9 million acres of trees or taking

more than 1.4 million cars off U.S. highways for one year. As separate

companies, Chevron and Texaco were members of the upstream Star

program since its inception in 1995. Both companies previously were

recognized as “partners of the year.”

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

38

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Climate Change (Continued)

2 Investing in research, development and improved technology: We

3 Pursuing business opportunities in promising, innovative energy

invest in research to improve understanding of global climate change

technologies: Our research and business units are evaluating and

issues, identify mitigation strategies and improve the cost-effectiveness

investing in advanced energy technologies that have the potential of

of mitigation technology. We develop and apply cost-effective tech-

being commercially viable and beneﬁcial to the environment.

nologies that reduce the carbon emissions of producing, delivering

and consuming our products. For example:

4 Supporting ﬂexible and economically sound policies and mecha-

nisms that protect the environment: We respect the varied views of

> ChevronTexaco, along with several other companies and U.S. gov-

partner nations on this complex issue. We assist in government policy

ernment agencies, co-funds the work of the Massachusetts Institute

development and decision-making on energy issues and participate

of Technology Joint Program on the Science and Policy for Global

constructively in dialogue with a broad range of stakeholders on cli-

Climate Change.

> ChevronTexaco is a member of or supports a variety of CO2 capture
and geologic storage initiatives designed to develop these promising

technologies. Examples include:

– Global CO2 Capture Project;

mate change issues. We support the development and use of interna-

tional mechanisms such as emissions trading, Clean Development

Mechanism and Joint Implementation, which provide ﬂexible, mar-

ket-based, economically sound means to reduce emissions.

ChevronTexaco has established an internal Climate Change Steering

Council consisting of senior managers from our business units, as well as

– GEOSEQ geologic sequestration project, a joint venture between

technology experts. The Steering Council oversees the deployment of

three U.S. National Laboratories;

ChevronTexaco’s climate change strategy, coordinating information and

– GEODISC, which is run by the Australian Petroleum Cooperative

Research Centre to study long-term CO2 storage;

best-practice sharing, and reviewing and revising the strategy. The

Steering Council also has formed several project teams to develop rec-

ommendations on speciﬁc issues related to climate change, such as emis-

– the Weyburn Project, a Canadian government-industry initiative

sions trading and management of greenhouse gases in capital projects.

also focusing on geologic sequestration.

We also have gained operational experience with CO2 capture and stor-
age. For example, we have been reinjecting CO2 at the Rangely,
Colorado, ﬁeld since 1986 for the purpose of enhanced oil recovery.

Since that time, we estimate more than 19 million metric tons of CO2
have been stored.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

39

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Climate Change (Continued)

Performance: Conducting the First 

Emissions Inventory as a New Company

Future Goals: Setting Emissions Targets

Beginning in 2003, ChevronTexaco will develop a consistent internal

In 2002, we implemented our SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions

metric for tracking greenhouse gas emissions on a per-unit-of-output

Estimating System to compile our ﬁrst corporatewide greenhouse gas

basis and will make preliminary emission forecasts. We will establish

emissions inventory. For 2002, our total net emissions were approximately

emissions goals across our company in 2004. These goals will apply 

2002 Greenhouse Gas Emissions*
Millions of metric tons CO2 equivalent

Upstream

Downstream

Other**

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

34.4

23.5

2.3

*These numbers do not include Dynegy Inc. 
or Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LP 
emissions. ChevronTexaco’s net equity share 
of Chevron Phillips’ emissions for 2002 is 
estimated to be 3.4 million metric tons of 
CO2 equivalents.

**Other includes the greenhouse gas emissions 
of ChevronTexaco’s shipping, power and 
gasification, and coal businesses as well  
as administrative and corporate services.

60 million metric tons of CO2
equivalents for all businesses and

to our upstream, downstream and power and gasiﬁcation operating

companies and, where possible, joint ventures and partially owned

operations we have ﬁnancial

subsidiaries. Also beginning in 2003, we will initiate an independent

interests in, based on its equity

third-party review of our emissions management system, leading to

share in those businesses and

an audited greenhouse gas emissions inventory that will ensure a strong

operations. These emissions are

foundation for our emissions management program.

roughly equal to the total green-

house gas emissions from the

countries of Austria or

Singapore. Eighty-seven percent

of our emissions are CO2 and 13
percent are methane, with trace

amounts of nitrous oxide.

We recognize that in addition 

to the greenhouse gas emissions

generated by our operations,

the use of our products as fuel

contributes to worldwide green-

house gas emissions. According

to the Coalition for Environmen-

tally Responsible Economies

2002 Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions

(CERES), a U.S.-based environ-

Millions of metric tons CO2 equivalent

mental organization, our oil 

Other*
18%

Flaring 
& Venting
26%

Combustion
56%

and gas production in 2002 was

the source of 415.2 million tons

of end-use CO2 emissions by
our customers, equal to approx-

imately 1.7 percent of global

emissions from fossil fuels.

*Other includes acid gas removal, coke combustion, 

crude oil transport, crude oil storage, flashing, 
fugitives, glycol dehydrators, indirect emissions 
and sulfur recovery.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

40

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >

SANGEA™ Emissions Monitoring Software

Energy Technologies

In 2002, ChevronTexaco implemented a new software program it developed

to help it more easily and accurately estimate and manage energy use and

greenhouse gas emissions at its facilities worldwide. This program was

developed over several years to help our businesses estimate their emis-

sions based on standard methods compiled by the American Petroleum

Institute. Our goal was to provide an easy-to-use tool for estimating emis-

sions based on the latest methodologies available. In an effort to take a

leadership role in promoting industry standardization of comparable, con-

sistent greenhouse gas emissions data, we have released the software

without charge to the worldwide energy industry. 

The software, called SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions Estimating System, is

an automated, electronic data management information system for gather-

ing greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage data from energy company

Background: Meeting Energy

Demand through Innovation

Meeting the world’s demand for

energy in ways that are environ-

mentally, socially and economi-

cally sound requires creativity

and technological innovation.

ChevronTexaco believes fossil

fuels will provide the vast major-

ity of near-term energy supplies,

and that improvements in fossil

fuel technologies and products

ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures

employees Alice Boutan and Greg

Romney, with an advanced battery 

for hybrid cars, at the company’s fuel-

processing facility in Bellaire, Texas.

hold the promise of substantially improved efﬁciency and reduced

environmental impacts.

operations. ChevronTexaco used the software in 2002 to compile the ﬁrst

Still, concerns about society’s dependence on these fuels have stimulated

comprehensive greenhouse gas inventory for the newly merged company. 

increased research and investment in alternative and renewable energy

By combining greenhouse gas emissions and energy utilization estimates,

the SANGEA™ software is highly efﬁcient, eliminating duplicate work and

providing for consistent energy use reporting at a facility. The SANGEA™

software is implemented as an enterprisewide, complete process for data

generation, calculation, analysis, reporting and management of data from

exploration and production, reﬁning and marketing, petrochemicals,

transportation, electricity generation, manufacturing, real estate, and

coal activities.

technologies. Hydrogen-based fuels and fuel cells, in particular, are con-

sidered by some to be promising, although major technological and eco-

nomic hurdles must yet be overcome before hydrogen will be a practical

alternative as a mass-market energy source.

Approach: Investing Wisely in Promising Technologies

ChevronTexaco invests in new and emerging technologies that may

create economic value for the company, while offering the potential for

reduced environmental impacts. We identify promising new technolo-

In the six months since we announced that our software is available with-

gies; invest in start-up companies and venture capital funds; and form

out charge, more than 150 companies have contacted us to learn more

alliances and joint ventures for research and development projects.

about it. ChevronTexaco has delivered more than 80 copies of the software.

Between 1999 and 2003, we estimate that ChevronTexaco will have

For more information about SANGEA™, please contact: 

spent an average of approximately US$110 million per year on invest-

Susann Nordrum

ChevronTexaco Energy Technology Company

Email: cegis@chevrontexaco.com

Phone: +1 (510) 242-1412

Hazem Arafa

American Petroleum Institute

Email: Arafa@api.org

Phone: +1 (202) 682-8506

ments in renewable energy, alternative energy and energy efﬁciency.

Two wholly owned ChevronTexaco subsidiaries focus on the develop-

ment and commercialization of new and emerging energy sources:

> ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures develops advanced energy sources,

through ChevronTexaco-sponsored research and development and in

collaboration with others, to demonstrate new technologies and infra-

structure solutions.

> Chevron Energy Solutions markets and implements promising new

commercial energy technologies, as well as more traditional technolo-

gies to help customers save energy costs.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

41

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Energy Technologies (Continued)

In addition to continuing major investments in natural gas, oil and

bulk storage for stationary uses, such as distributed power facilities and

cleaner-burning fuels, ChevronTexaco investments in cleaner technolo-

hydrogen service stations; and on-board storage for vehicles.

gies are focused in the following areas:

> Advanced batteries: Through Texaco Ovonic Battery Systems, another

> Fuel cells and processing: Fuel cells, which combine hydrogen and oxy-

50/50 joint venture between ChevronTexaco and ECD, we are working

gen to create electricity, can be a more efﬁcient and environmentally

to commercialize nickel-metal hydride (NiMH) batteries, which can be

preferable source of energy. In fuel cells, use of hydrogen produces no

used to power transportation vehicles and stationary devices, such as

unburned hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide or green-

telecommunications equipment. In addition to providing more than

house gases, such as those produced by burning fossil fuels. But depend-

twice the energy and lasting longer than conventional lead-acid bat-

ing on the source, some emissions may result from making the hydrogen.

teries, NiMH batteries are an environmentally preferable alternative

ChevronTexaco believes that converting readily available fossil fuels,

such as natural gas, into hydrogen to power fuel cells is the most real-

because the materials used in the batteries do not contain cadmium

or lead, both of which are environmentally hazardous substances.

istic near-term method for enabling fuel cell technology to mature

> Renewable Energy: ChevronTexaco also has invested in renewable

and markets to develop. While the use of renewable energy sources –

energy development, which helps us learn about renewables and their

such as solar or wind – to power fuel cells offers the potential to mini-

role in our future global energy mix. For example, through a joint

mize the environmental impacts even further, existing infrastructure,

venture, we have invested in a wind farm that is now producing elec-

cost considerations and other practical issues mean that widespread

tricity at a reﬁnery in the Netherlands. It has nine turbines capable of

use of renewable energy sources is not yet economically feasible.

producing 22.5 megawatts of power. Two geothermal plants at

ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures has developed the HALIAS™

fuel processor, a stand-alone unit that turns natural gas or propane

into hydrogen fuel. Several production-ready HALIAS™ prototypes

are now in long-term testing.

Additionally, ChevronTexaco Energy Technology Company and its

downstream companies are working with auto companies and others

to develop fuel processors to convert familiar fuels such as gasoline

into hydrogen. To date, this work primarily has involved fuel proces-

sors on vehicles, but the results also support other applications.

To gain ﬁrsthand experience with fuel cell technology, we have

installed fuel cell systems to supply power to run information tech-

nology systems at our headquarters in San Ramon, California, and

research laboratories at our facility in Bellaire, Texas.

> Hydrogen storage: Efﬁcient and safe hydrogen storage technology is a key

component in enabling the hydrogen and fuel cell markets to develop.

Through Texaco Ovonic Hydrogen Systems, a 50/50 joint venture

between ChevronTexaco and Energy Conversion Devices (ECD), we are

working to advance the commercialization of hydrogen storage solutions.

The advanced technology developed by the joint venture enables hydro-

gen to be stored in a solid state at low pressure and ambient temperature,

two important improvements over other existing hydrogen storage tech-

nologies. The systems being developed are for hydrogen storage in small

portable applications such as backup power systems to replace batteries;

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

42

Darajat, West Java, together produce 145 megawatts of electricity.

ChevronTexaco’s Upstream Indonesia Business Unit supplies the

steam for both plants, and constructed and operates one of them.

In another renewable-energy project, we have installed a solar photo-

voltaic facility to help power our oil ﬁeld operations in California’s San

Joaquin Valley. The demonstration project provides 500 kilowatts of

power and is one of the largest photovoltaic installations in the United

States and the largest array of ﬂexible, amorphous-silicon solar tech-

nology in the world.

> Gasiﬁcation Technology: With more than 50 years of experience in

the ﬁeld, ChevronTexaco is among the world leaders in gasiﬁcation

technology. The company licenses or has equity interests in more than

60 commercial gasiﬁcation plants that are either in operation or in

advanced development around the world.

The Texaco Gasiﬁcation Processes (TGP) are efﬁcient and versatile

technologies that can convert a variety of different hydrocarbons –

including waste oil, coal, coke, fuel oils and gas streams – into cleaner

synthesis gas, or syngas. The syngas is used for generating electricity

and for producing industrial chemicals and gases, as well as cleaner

liquid fuels. TGP offers advantages over conventional combustion

processes, including having a higher fuel efﬁciency, which can mean

that fewer greenhouse gases are generated for a comparable energy

output. The technology also can be used to remove CO2, allowing for
integration with CO2 sequestration processes.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Flaring

Background: Addressing an Operational Challenge

> In Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO), a joint venture that

Natural gas often occupies underground reservoirs with oil and is pro-

ChevronTexaco operates, reduced ﬂaring by approximately two-thirds

duced along with the oil. Such “associated gas” is separated from the oil

between 2000 and 2002. TCO invested more than US$140 million to

after it is brought to the surface. Where possible, ChevronTexaco and

repair and upgrade existing facilities and install new equipment. As a

other energy companies reinject the gas back into the underground for-

result of the improvements, more than 120 million cubic feet of gas

mation. Gas that is not reinjected often is used as an energy source for

per day no longer is ﬂared.

> ChevronTexaco has committed to eliminate routine ﬂaring from 

its operations in Angola. In addition to working with the Angolan

government to develop and operate new oil production without

routine ﬂaring, we are pursuing other projects that will eliminate

existing routine ﬂares from our older facilities. We expect these

projects, including the Sanha Condensate Project and the Takula

Gas Processing Platform Project, to eliminate the ﬂaring of more

than 350 million cubic feet per day.

the production facility. But in many cases, excess gas remains. When this

gas cannot be used or sold – due to lack of markets or infrastructure

such as pipelines – it often is burned off at the production site, a prac-

tice called “routine ﬂaring.” ChevronTexaco and other energy companies

have faced criticism for the use of ﬂaring because it wastes a natural

resource, releases greenhouse gases and can negatively affect nearby

communities.

Approach: Developing New Markets and Infrastructure

ChevronTexaco is working to better manage routine ﬂaring in its world-

wide exploration and production operations. We are developing mar-

kets for our associated gas and investing in the needed gas processing

and pipeline systems. The company also has undertaken projects to

convert natural gas to liquid fuels and to liqueﬁed natural gas, which

can then be transported to markets. We are participants in the World

Bank Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership, a public-private initia-

tive working to reduce ﬂaring and venting of associated gas worldwide.

Performance: Working to Reduce Flaring

In the United States, ChevronTexaco has virtually eliminated routine

ﬂaring, due to a combination of available gas markets, regulatory

requirements and voluntary participation in initiatives like the U.S.

EPA’s Star program. In the United States, ﬂaring accounts for less than

1 percent of ChevronTexaco’s total upstream greenhouse gas emissions

of approximately 12 million metric tons.

ChevronTexaco’s international upstream companies are engaged in

numerous projects to reduce and, in some places, eliminate routine

ﬂaring of gas. For example:

> In Nigeria, our business unit is developing several projects that will

reduce ﬂaring from our operations by several hundred million cubic

feet per day. To give a sense of scale, 100 million cubic feet of gas per

day corresponds to approximately 13 percent of Nigeria’s total natural

gas consumption. These projects include the Escravos Gas-to-Liquids

Plant, expansion of our Escravos Gas Plant and the West Africa Gas

Pipeline, which will carry gas that otherwise would have been ﬂared

from Nigeria to users in Togo, Benin and Ghana.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

43

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Air Emissions

Managing Our Emissions

Reducing Emissions from Our Products

Like all energy companies, ChevronTexaco’s operations produce emis-

In addition to air emissions from our own operations, we also are work-

sions such as sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds

ing to minimize the air emissions produced when our fuel products are

and carbon monoxide, which can contribute to local and regional air

used. ChevronTexaco has undertaken a range of activities to develop

pollution. Through our Operational Excellence Management System, we

such cleaner fuels:

require our business units to track current air emissions, forecast future

emissions, and minimize the environmental and health risks associated

with those emissions. We do not collect corporatewide, nongreenhouse

> We have been an industry leader in gasoline detergent additive tech-

nology, which reduces vehicle emissions by reducing engine deposits.

Since 1973, U.S. automakers have used Chevron gasoline with our

deposit control technology to help certify their vehicles comply with

gas air emissions data.

U.S. Refining Emissions

Tons per million 
barrels processed

Thousands of 
tons per year

45

35

25

15

5

0

16

12

8

4

0

99

00

01

02

Tons per million 
barrels processed
(left scale)

NOx
SOx
VOC

Tons per year
(right scale)

NOx
SOx
VOC

Note: NOx  =  nitrogen oxides

SOx  =  sulfur oxides
VOC  =  volatile organic compounds 

ChevronTexaco designs new

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency emission standards.

facilities using guidelines and

processes to minimize air emis-

sions once the facilities are oper-

ating. We also add emission

control equipment to existing

> Company researchers have worked extensively with oil and auto

industry research organizations to characterize engine emissions, the

effects of vehicle design and fuels on these emissions, and the effects

of these emissions on air quality.

facilities. In many cases, this

> We have worked with the U.S. EPA in its efforts to reduce sulfur

control equipment is installed 

content of fuels to reduce emissions from combustion of these

to comply with local and national

products. ChevronTexaco plans to produce low-sulfur fuels well

governmental requirements,

ahead of EPA deadlines.

although in some instances we

have gone beyond regulatory

requirements. In most of our U.S.

> Outside the United States, ChevronTexaco plans to deliver low-sulfur

products in speciﬁc markets in Asia, the Middle East and Africa.

marketing terminals, for example,

> We have been an advocate of producing unleaded gasoline ahead of

we have installed controls that

government mandates and have worked on this issue with govern-

typically reduce volatile organic

ments in Vietnam, South Africa and Kenya.

compounds emissions beyond

what is required by regulations.

> We are members of the International Petroleum Industry Environ-

mental Conservation Association and the American Petroleum

In the United States, our reﬁner-

Institute, both of which are working with the Partnership for Clean

ies have made improvements in controlling emissions of volatile organic

Fuels and Vehicles. This global partnership, established in 2002 at

compounds and nitrogen oxides over the past several years. The net

the World Summit for Sustainable Development, is supporting the

increase in sulfur oxide emissions over the period is primarily due to

phaseout of lead from fuels around the world and the reduction of

variability in reﬁnery operations and the types of crude oils processed.

sulfur in gasoline and diesel fuel as advanced vehicle emission con-

trols are introduced.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

44

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Spills

Background: Addressing 

8,000 miles of pipelines that could affect a “high consequence area”

an Operational Risk

will be assessed, half by the end of 2004 and the remainder by the end

Over the past several decades,

of 2010. High-consequence areas include populated areas, commer-

ChevronTexaco has taken signiﬁ-

cially navigable waterways, unusually sensitive ecological areas and

cant steps to improve its per-

drinking water sources. These assessments will include the use of

formance in the area of oil and

internal inspection tools, called “smart pigs,” to measure and analyze

chemical spill prevention and

conditions along the walls of the pipes to pinpoint potential problems

response. We focus ﬁrst on pre-

before they can become leaks.

A spill drill in Port Dickson,

Malaysia, brought together gov-

ernment groups and 80 employees

from the U.S., Asia, the Middle

East and Africa.

vention by assessing our risks

and taking necessary steps to

mitigate them. Despite our best

efforts, spills and leaks do occur,

and we have developed a rigor-

ous emergency preparedness and

response system. As part of the

system, ChevronTexaco helps

fund numerous industry oil spill

cleanup organizations worldwide and sponsors two or three major oil

spill drills each year to provide training to several hundred key respon-

ders throughout the company. In 2002, we conducted major spill exer-

cises in Malaysia and Grenada. Individual facilities also conduct

numerous emergency response drills each year, many in coordination

with local and national authorities and other industry operators.

Approach: Focusing on Prevention

Our business units are taking a comprehensive and systematic approach

to reducing the risk of spills. For example:

> The California-based San Joaquin Valley Business Unit formed an Oil

Spill Prevention Team with a goal of eliminating spills. The unit estab-

lished a spill-prevention budget to supplement facilities’ operating

budgets, identiﬁed and prioritized the highest spill risks, and applied

new and existing technology to prevent spills. The unit decreased spills

by 700 barrels, or approximately 60 percent, between 2001 and 2002

and is sharing its technology and learning across the company.

> In Nigeria, ChevronTexaco’s upstream business unit implemented 

a new process to better assess the risk of leaks from pipelines.

Through this analysis, it identiﬁed and is implementing more than

25 distinct projects designed to achieve a tenfold reduction in the

risk of spills related to pipeline corrosion, erosion-induced failure,

mechanical damage, operational upsets or equipment failures.

> In 2002, ChevronTexaco Shipping (CTS) Company led the industry

in spill prevention. With an intense focus on spill prevention, CTS

transported more than 250 million barrels of crude oil in its con-

trolled ﬂeet of vessels, without a single spill to water.

Performance: Establishing a Commitment to Improve

We were not satisﬁed with our performance in this area in 2002 because

we did not make progress in reducing spills from the previous year, and

we did not meet our performance target. In 2002, ChevronTexaco had

1,502 oil spills, with a total spilled volume of nearly 55,000 barrels. This

is in the context of 2002 net production of crude oil and natural gas liq-

uids of approximately 638 million barrels and product sales totaling

approximately 1.4 billion barrels. Many of these spills were contained

within areas such as dikes around tanks. We track all spills because they

have the potential to affect the environment. Less than 1 percent of the

spilled oil went to water, and a little more than half of the total spilled

volume was immediately recovered.

ChevronTexaco experienced two signiﬁcant oil spills in 2002: a 14,000-

barrel spill at a storage facility in Panama, which was contained within

the tank dike area, and an 18,000-barrel spill in Nigeria associated with

a tank ﬁre ignited by a lightning strike. In the latter case, a small

amount of oil was released from the tank containment area. This event

is a primary factor contributing to our relatively low amount of spilled

oil recovered when compared with 2001; oil consumed in the ﬁre was

not counted as “recovered.”

We recognize that even minor spills can have an impact. For example,

a relatively small spill (nine barrels) in our upstream operations in

Cabinda, Angola, had a signiﬁcant impact on the local community.

Fishing in the vicinity was suspended immediately for a number of days

as a health and safety precaution. While the environmental effects were

minimal, and we believe we responded effectively and responsibly, our

reputation nevertheless was damaged as a result of this incident. During

> ChevronTexaco’s North American pipeline company is implementing

the investigation into the cause, it was determined that the undersea

a Pipeline Integrity Management Plan. Under the plan, more than

pipeline involved could not be repaired easily and returned to service

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

45

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Spills (Continued)

ChevronTexaco Petroleum Spills*

1999

2000

2001

2002

Number of spills

2,169

1,553

1,428

1,502

Case Study >

Shipping’s Spill-Free Record

In 2001 and 2002, ChevronTexaco Shipping (CTS) Company’s safety and

environmental performance led the industry, based on benchmarking data

from large competitors that operate tanker ﬂeets.

164,686

34,460

54,834

54,696

CTS operates a trading ﬂeet of 25 tankers, of which all but one are double-

Volume of spills 
(barrels)

Volume recovered
(barrels)

––

––

48,348

27,805

*1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data are  
  ChevronTexaco.  Note:  Prior to 2001, volume recovered was not  
  tracked at the corporate level.

sided, and 23 of which are double-hulled. In 2002, CTS transported more

than 250 million barrels of crude oil in its controlled ﬂeet of vessels, with-

out a single spill to water. In addition, when chartering third-party vessels

CTS uses a comprehensive clearance and vetting system for screening and

monitoring all vessels it charters to identify the safest and most reliable

without some risk of an additional leak. Therefore, some oil production

vessels available.  

was shut into allow for replacement of portions of the line on a priority

basis. During this period, ChevronTexaco reduced production by

approximately 2.7 million barrels rather than run the risk of an addi-

tional spill from the pipeline.

CTS works to continually supplement its knowledge and improve its

performance through participation in organizations such as the Oil

Companies International Marine Forum, whose mission is to be the fore-

most authority on the safe and environmentally responsible operation of

ChevronTexaco also tracks spills of chemicals, including industrial

oil tankers and terminals.

chemicals, some catalysts used in reﬁning operations and some types of

materials used in drilling oil and gas wells. In 2002, we had 75 chemical

releases totaling 135 metric tons (135,075 kg) in our worldwide opera-

tions. Of that amount, 62 metric tons (62,303 kg), or slightly under half

of the volume, was recovered immediately. Because we began tracking

spills of chemicals consistently across our operating companies in late

2001, trend history data are not yet available.

Future Goals: Setting an Aggressive Target

ChevronTexaco’s goal is to be a leader in its industry in spill prevention.

Our near-term target is to reduce total volume of oil spilled by 20 per-

cent each year over the next three years. We also are working within

industry associations to help bring consistency to the collection and

reporting of spill data industrywide. Such standardization will help us

better measure progress against our world-class performance standard.

In 2002, Chevron Shipping

transported more than 250 million

barrels of crude oil in its controlled

vessel ﬂeet without a single spill

to water.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

46

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Water

Waste

Approach: Conserving a Natural Resource

Availability of and access to fresh water is one of the world’s most press-

ing challenges. ChevronTexaco and other energy companies use relatively

large volumes of both fresh water and sea water in their operations such

as for oil and gas drilling and pro-

duction as well as in processing

and manufacturing operations, for

Approach: 

Waste Management Planning

ChevronTexaco requires its busi-

nesses to continually improve

processes to minimize pollution

and waste. Our business units

develop waste management plans

cooling and steam generation. Our

At the Minas Field in Indonesia, 

that track the wastes they pro-

use of fresh water can affect local

a tractor ploughs soil to increase 

duce, follow a waste minimiza-

ecosystems and communities, par-

air penetration causing microbes

tion hierarchy (reduce/recycle/

ticularly in places where it is scarce.

to digest impurities.

treat/dispose), comply with all

Steven Carter and Mike Carter take

water samples at Richmond Reﬁnery

wetlands in California.

ChevronTexaco also discharges

water from operating facilities and

from oil and gas production. Water

sometimes resides in underground

reservoirs with oil and gas. When

the oil and gas are extracted, water also may be extracted. This “pro-

duced water” is either reinjected into the subsurface it came from or is

regulations and, when local regu-

lations do not exist, apply appropriate waste management practices.

ChevronTexaco’s capital project management process also includes spe-

ciﬁc tools and activities that integrate pollution prevention and waste

minimization concepts into the designs for its projects so that they gen-

erate fewer and less hazardous wastes. We do not track waste volumes

or types corporatewide.

treated and discharged. If the water discharged from our operations is

ChevronTexaco has gained expertise in upgrading and building new

not adequately treated, it can negatively affect the environment.

waste facilities, particularly in places where waste management is com-

ChevronTexaco requires its business units to evaluate their use of and

impacts on all natural resources and to identify and implement conser-

vation opportunities. At many of our facilities, we track discharges to

water and take steps to minimize the environmental and health risks

associated with those discharges.

Some of our facilities have implemented process changes designed to

minimize the use of fresh water, particularly where supplies are limited.

For instance, our California reﬁneries in Richmond, and El Segundo,

use “reclaimed water,” which is treated domestic sewage, instead of fresh

water, for cooling in the manufacturing process. Other ChevronTexaco

reﬁneries around the world are investigating water reuse opportunities.

The company also continually looks for ways to minimize the effects of

discharged water and, in some cases, put it to beneﬁcial use. For exam-

ple, in California’s Kern River region, where fresh water is limited, the

company’s upstream operations provide appropriately treated discharged

water to a local utility for agricultural irrigation.

Future Goals: Developing a Comprehensive Strategy

ChevronTexaco’s upstream operating companies are developing a com-

prehensive strategy to manage produced water. The strategy will address

reinjection of produced water, minimizing the environmental and social

impacts, as well as the potential beneﬁcial uses of discharged water.

plicated by lack of infrastructure. We also participate in a number of

industry forums, including the International Association of Oil and

Gas Producers and the Petroleum Environmental Research Forum, to

develop and share improved waste management practices within the

industry. Examples of recent or planned investments in waste manage-

ment facilities include:

> Sumatra, Indonesia: ChevronTexaco recently began operating several

major facilities to improve management of oily wastes, including a

slurry injection facility and a bioremediation unit to treat oily soils and

wastes. Since 2000, the company has spent more than US$50 million

on the design, construction and operation of these facilities, and we

plan to continue to upgrade waste facilities there in 2003 and 2004.

> Kazakhstan: the company’s joint venture Tengizchevroil has initiated

construction on a US$16 million integrated waste management facil-

ity. The facility will include a recycling area, a landﬁll and a waste

treatment area.

> Venezuela: in 2002, we commissioned a US$1.8 million facility designed

to handle a broad spectrum of wastes from the Boscan oil ﬁeld.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

47

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >

Offshore Drilling Discharges

Decommissioning & Remediation

Drilling oil and gas wells requires the use of drilling ﬂuids to remove rock

“cuttings” from the wellbore and to control formation pressure. Drilling

ﬂuids are made of various chemical compositions depending on the geo-

logic and reservoir formations being drilled. These ﬂuids are pumped down

the hole and transported back to the surface with the cuttings that are

“cut loose” as we drill. The cuttings are then separated from the drilling

ﬂuid at the surface. In the offshore environment, depending on the chemi-

cal composition used and local conditions, cuttings with residual drilling

ﬂuids are often discharged to the sea. This discharge must be carefully

managed to minimize its impact on the marine environment.

In reviewing our worldwide offshore drilling ﬂuid management practices in

2002, we identiﬁed several opportunities for improvement. As a result,

ChevronTexaco is developing a new performance standard that uses eco-

logical risk criteria to deﬁne what can and cannot be discharged into water

and establishes buffer zones to help protect biologically sensitive areas. It

also requires new offshore drilling projects to evaluate the technical and

economic feasibility of reinjecting cuttings back into subsurface formations,

instead of discharging them into the sea.

Under the standard, all offshore drilling rigs using drilling ﬂuids that are

Approach: Working to Prevent

Problems

ChevronTexaco’s aim is to

responsibly steward its assets

throughout their lifecycle, from

design and construction, through

operation and, in some cases, sale

to another party or decommis-

sioning. Our goal is to prevent

In Cincinnati, Ohio, a natural wet-

environmental problems before

land ﬂourishes where a reﬁnery

they happen. When designing

once stood, following a

and building new projects, we

ChevronTexaco restoration program.

include many design elements to

prevent impacts to land and

groundwater. Some of our facilities have been in operation for many

decades, over which time practices for facility design, waste management

and spill prevention have evolved. Although they were consistent with

standard industry practices at the time, our past operating practices at

some of these locations resulted in releases of hydrocarbons and other

chemicals to land and groundwater. ChevronTexaco expects its businesses

to evaluate potential risks posed by these past releases and to take steps to

not water-based will be equipped with advanced cuttings cleaning systems.

mitigate them.

Such systems reduce the environmental impact of discharging drilled cut-

tings into the sea.

The standard also requires all drilling projects to undergo a risk-based

screening to determine the adequacy of environmental practices. The

screening considers site-speciﬁc factors such as ocean depth and prevailing

currents, toxicity and biodegradation of drilling ﬂuids, and the volume of

cuttings generated. This information is used to determine whether dis-

charging is acceptable in a given location and to identify the appropriate

cleaning technology to help protect the local marine environment.

In the case of asset sales, it is our policy to assess and manage our envi-

ronmental liabilities prior to any property transactions. Appropriate

cleanup or restoration is conducted as needed to ensure that the prop-

erty is suitable for continued current use or, if the use is changing, for

the intended future use. But at times the new owner may not properly

manage its environmental obligations, or the property may subse-

quently change hands. In some instances, external parties have sought

to make us responsible for remediation of subsequent damage, despite

our view that we had previously met our obligations.

Chevron Environmental Management Company (EMC), a wholly

owned operating company, focuses primarily on the responsible decom-

missioning and cleanup of ChevronTexaco sites. EMC uses a rigorous

process for managing environmental cleanups based on its experience

in managing capital construction projects. Although EMC’s activities

are focused primarily in the United States, it works collaboratively with

ChevronTexaco business units worldwide on land and groundwater

assessments, cleanups and decommissioning, as well as helping reduce

future liabilities through technology transfer and best-practice sharing.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

48

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Decommissioning & Remediation (Continued)

Performance: Managing Our Liabilities Responsibly

> In 2002, the U.S. EPA recognized ChevronTexaco for its innovative han-

Like many other large energy companies operating in the United States,

dling of the environmental – as well as community – issues surrounding

ChevronTexaco is cleaning up a number of sites where it has current or

the cleanup of its former Cincinnati Reﬁnery. The Cincinnati facility

past operations. We currently are cleaning up more than 3,000 such

and its employees also received certiﬁcation from the Wildlife Habitat

sites in the United States. These are primarily current or former service

Council for the development of a successful wildlife management

stations, reﬁneries, oil and gas ﬁelds, and chemical facilities, as well as

program, including habitat restoration, wetlands creation, and a joint

waste sites covered under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s

project with EPA and the University of Cincinnati, that uses plants to

Superfund program. We are addressing potential risks associated with

help accelerate the cleanup.

releases to soil and groundwater resulting from historical operations

that, in some cases, go back nearly 100 years. ChevronTexaco has spent

more than US$3 billion on such cleanups since 1980. Much of this work

has been undertaken voluntarily in cooperation with regulatory agen-

cies. Internationally, ChevronTexaco uses the same risk management

philosophy in its approach to site cleanups.

Particularly in our upstream operations, we also are engaged in multiple

efforts to decommission our facilities, including closing oil and gas wells

that are no longer productive, dismantling surface equipment and

pipelines, and removing offshore platforms at the end of their service

life. Annually, we plug more than a thousand wells and remove several

offshore platforms.

The following are examples of ChevronTexaco’s successful decommis-

sioning or cleaning up of company sites:

> In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, ChevronTexaco’s upstream company has

removed approximately 230 platforms since 1986. Approximately 40

of these platforms were used as artiﬁcial reefs to provide enhanced

marine habitats as part of government-sponsored Rigs to Reefs pro-

grams. The remainder of the platforms were either recycled at steel

mills or reused as platforms elsewhere in the Gulf of Mexico.

> In 2003, the U.S. EPA gave national recognition to ChevronTexaco as

one of only a handful of companies committed to key cleanup objec-

tives at former reﬁneries and chemical facilities under the Resource

Conservation and Recovery Act by 2005. We are well on our way to

meeting this commitment.

> In the Partitioned Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait,

Saudi Arabian Texaco, Inc., is undertaking an extensive cleanup of

oily pits caused by historic operating practices. This multiyear project

> In Fullerton, California, ChevronTexaco is turning a former oil pro-

will address 65 separate pits comprising more than 3 million square

duction property into a 760-unit housing facility, including single-

meters of impacted land area.

> In Indonesia, prior to turning the lease for a major production block

over to a new operator, ChevronTexaco undertook an extensive review

and cleanup effort to help ensure the facilities were transferred in a safe

and environmentally sound condition. All of these activities were docu-

mented to communicate the condition of the production facilities to the

new operator and to the Indonesian government. The operating block

also received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation as further demonstration of the

environmental processes and practices in place prior to ChevronTexaco’s

relinquishing control.

and multiple-family residences. The plan includes a neighborhood

commercial center, open space with native habitat conservation areas,

a public use site with parks and schools, private recreational ameni-

ties, bikeways, and eight miles of recreational trails.

ChevronTexaco’s U.S. Decommissioning and Cleanup Activities and Expenditures

Year

U.S. Expenditures

U.S. Service Station
Cleanups Completed

Platforms Removed
(Gulf of Mexico)

1999

2000

2001

2002

$298 million

$280 million

$284 million

$327 million

191

293

264

222

7

13

0

4

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

49

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >

Legacy in Ecuador

responsibilities of minority and majority partners, the accountability of

state oil companies and governments, the differing expectations of vari-

From 1964 to 1992, Texaco Petroleum Company (Texpet) was a minority

ous stakeholders, and the ability of court systems to adjudicate complex

partner in an oil exploration and production consortium in an environ-

affairs where the issue of jurisdiction is not always clear.

mentally sensitive rain forest region in Ecuador. For most of that period,

Texpet was the operator of the ﬁeld and associated pipeline, while

PetroEcuador, the state oil company, was the majority partner.

Biodiversity

Although 95 percent of the total earnings that the consortium produced

went to PetroEcuador and contributed to Ecuador’s economy, questions

have been raised about the possible environmental and health conse-

quences for the region and the indigenous people who live there.

Consistent with company practice, at the time of Texpet’s departure from

the consortium, it undertook environmental audits to determine whether

there were any concerns that needed to be addressed. The company sub-

sequently entered into an agreement with PetroEcuador, the Ecuadorian

national government, and representatives of indigenous groups and local

municipalities to manage and fund a US$40 million remediation program.

This included closure and remediation of well sites, soils remediation, and

installation of produced water treatment and reinjection systems.

In addition, the company created a US$1 million fund for socioeconomic

projects by nongovernmental organizations and a second US$1 million

fund for the construction of four schools and adjacent medical clinics and

vehicles for transportation.

The company received certiﬁcation and approval from government

inspectors on a site-by-site basis made through several phases of the

project. In 1998, the government of Ecuador and the local municipalities

provided a ﬁnal certiﬁcation for the program, releasing the company from

further claims or obligations.

Notwithstanding these efforts, in 1993 lawyers representing a group of

indigenous Ecuadorian Indians brought suit against Texaco Inc. in the

United States, charging that the company was responsible for alleged

health problems and environmental damage caused by the oil-producing

activities. On four separate occasions, U.S. courts dismissed the lawsuit

because they determined that the United States was not the proper juris-

diction. Ultimately, the plaintiffs’ lawyers accepted these rulings and in

May 2003 ﬁled a suit against ChevronTexaco Corporation in an

Ecuadorian court. ChevronTexaco Corporation and Texaco Inc. maintain

there has yet to be presented any scientiﬁc evidence to substantiate the

allegations, and there is no basis for this lawsuit.

Background: Preserving a

Critical Natural Resource

Biodiversity refers to the entire

variety of life on earth. It encom-

passes genes, species and ecosys-

tems, and the processes that

support them. Biodiversity sup-

ports human life on the planet

and, in addition to its intrinsic

value, provides essential services

and products we all depend on,

including food, clothing, shelter,

fuel and medicines. In recent

years, there has been growing

recognition that preservation of

biodiversity is not only an envi-

ronmental issue, but also one

with important social and eco-

A Bee Orchid grows near our opera-

tions in Wales. The petals of the

ﬂower resemble bees trying to get

the pollen, thus attracting real bees.

nomic implications. The public has become increasingly concerned

about the loss of biodiversity in key regions of the world and the role

industry has played in that loss.

Energy companies such as ChevronTexaco can affect biodiversity in a

variety of ways, ranging from direct or primary impacts such as land

clearance, to indirect or secondary impacts, like road building, which

can invite population migration into remote, environmentally sensitive

areas, as well as introduce nonnative invasive species through move-

ment of equipment and materials.

Approach: Integrating Biodiversity Considerations into Operations

ChevronTexaco is participating in the Energy & Biodiversity Initiative

(EBI), a collaboration started in 2001 among industry and interna-

tional environmental conservation organizations working to integrate

biodiversity conservation into oil and gas exploration and develop-

This case has received widespread publicity over the years. It illustrates

ment. EBI participants include ChevronTexaco, BP, Shell and Statoil,

the complex issues associated with oil-producing activities, including the

together with Conservation International, Fauna and Flora Interna-

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

50

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Biodiversity (Continued)

tional, The Smithsonian Institution, The Nature Conservancy and the

> ChevronTexaco also funds related research: In Angola and the Gulf of

World Conservation Union.

We also continue to expand our knowledge of how to address biodi-

versity issues in our operations through our participation in the joint

Biodiversity Working Group of the International Petroleum Industry

Environmental Conservation Association and the International Associ-

ation of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP). We are also members of the joint

effort between OGP and the International Association of Geophysical

Contractors to address effects of oil and gas exploration and production

noise on the marine environment, as well as OGP’s project to develop

guidelines for conducting environmental baseline surveys in deep water.

To help protect sensitive areas around our operations, several

ChevronTexaco business units have created a set of Habitat

Management Guidelines. These guidelines, which were developed in

cooperation with technical experts and are supplemented with training

for employees, provide business units with information and tools to

prevent damage to local habitats and provide guidance on land restora-

Mexico, the company supports research and monitoring of whales

and dolphins; in coastal Panama, the company supports research in

mangrove and coral reef ecosystems.

Future Goals: Establishing a More Systematic Approach

Over the past several years, our understanding of biodiversity conserva-

tion concerns has expanded. As a result, we have identiﬁed the opportu-

nity to more systematically manage the issue by better integrating it into

our Operational Excellence Management System. In 2003,

ChevronTexaco’s international exploration and production company is

beginning to evaluate the work products from the Energy & Biodiversity

Initiative. This includes identiﬁcation of priorities and opportunities to

test and adapt EBI products for use in our operations. We also are initi-

ating efforts to promote more awareness of biodiversity conservation in

our company, deﬁning the extent of our operations in or near legally

protected and biodiversity sensitive areas, understanding the implica-

tions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and promoting industry

tion when impacts do occur.

use of the EBI products.

Performance: Demonstrating Biodiversity Conservation Around the World

ChevronTexaco has a number of speciﬁc programs to address biodiver-

Case Study >

Pembroke Reﬁnery’s 
Biodiversity Plan

In late 2001, ChevronTexaco’s

Pembroke reﬁnery in Pembrokeshire,

Wales, developed and began imple-

menting its Biodiversity Action Plan

(BAP). The plan was produced by

ecologists from Ulster University in

conjunction with the Countryside

Council for Wales, a nongovernmen-

tal organization dedicated to envi-

ronmental protection of the region.

sity conservation, particularly where we operate in areas of high biodi-

versity value or sensitivity. For example:

> In Papua New Guinea’s biologically diverse Southern Highlands

Province, ChevronTexaco’s operations have been cited as a model for

compatibly operating in diverse ecosystems.

> On Barrow Island, a Class A Nature Reserve off the west coast of

Australia, and in parts of California’s San Joaquin Valley, the company

protects endangered species and their habitats as part of its explo-

ration and production operations. The Barrow Island operation has

received numerous awards in the past two years, including recogni-

tion from the Institute of Petroleum, the Australian Petroleum

Production and Exploration Association and World Oil.

> Several ChevronTexaco reﬁneries engage in voluntary biodiversity

conservation projects, including conversion of wastewater treatment

ponds into aquatic habitat in Richmond, California; habitat enhance-

ChevronTexaco’s Pembroke Reﬁn-

The reﬁnery’s BAP aligns with and

ery has developed a Biodiversity

supports the local community’s BAP,

Action Plan for its operations.

which is required by law.

Pembroke Reﬁnery’s BAP identiﬁes

ment for endangered El Segundo Blue butterﬂies in Southern

the major habitats in the 1,250 acres it owns outside its main operating

California; and incorporation of wildlife habitat into reﬁnery remedi-

area, which include seminatural grasslands, extensive hedgerow networks,

ation plans at Cincinnati, Ohio.

a native mature oak woods and a marshland. The plan provides guidance

for the company to monitor, manage and enhance the diverse range of habi-

tats in the area. Primary activities in 2002 were: 

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

51

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

Pembroke Reﬁnery’s
Biodiversity Plan

Case Study >

Protecting Papua New Guinea’s 
Rain Forest

> Skylark monitoring and protection: A survey of the grassland in 2002

ChevronTexaco has brought to life its policy of protecting people and the

identiﬁed between 14 and 18 nesting pairs of skylarks, a European bird

environment in the Kutubu Petroleum Development Project in Papua New

listed on the endangered species list. The density is unusually high for

Guinea (PNG). The project area encompasses Lake Kutubu, a pristine lake

this type of bird in the area, and Pembroke plans to conduct on-going

in the Southern Highlands Province, and extends south to the Gulf of

monitoring to determine the overall trend. The ﬁelds where the ground-

Papua. The biologically diverse environment includes more than 700 bird

nesting skylark breeds are managed so that the birds are not disturbed

species; 15,000 ﬂowering plant species; and more than 300 species of ﬁsh,

until after the ﬂedglings have left the nest.

amphibians and reptiles. About 20,000 of the country’s 4 million people

> Habitat surveys: Students from a local school have undertaken a habitat

survey of a segment of the ﬁelds to identify major plant species, items

use the rain forest as a base for subsistence gardening and hunting, and

the Kikori River for transportation and food.

of interest and the general condition of the hedgerows. A further segment

Chevron Niugini worked with national and provincial governments, the

of ﬁelds is being surveyed in the summer of 2003. Ecologists also have

World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and communities to conserve the envi-

carried out a habitat survey of one of the marshes, identifying impor-

ronment, preserve cultural heritage and promote sustainable community

tant fauna and ﬂora (including otters, a protected species in the United

development. For example, Chevron Niugini implemented extensive meas-

Kingdom). Recommendations for future work have been incorporated

ures to help protect the environment and avoid environmental disturbance

into the BAP. 

> Woodland management: Arboreal experts prepared a woodland manage-

ment plan for the next ﬁve years. Activities will include erection of stock

fencing, removal of non-native trees, clearance of glades and planting of

native saplings.

To complement its biodiversity initiative, the Pembroke Reﬁnery also initi-

ated an effort to remodel an existing structure on company property for use

as an environmental center. The company is working with The Prince’s Trust

to carry out the renovation work, construct ponds and build boardwalks to

provide access to the adjacent marsh. When the facility is completed, it will

be used by schoolchildren as a base for carrying out environmental studies

in the area.

by burying pipelines, reinjecting

produced water, minimizing road

construction, eliminating spills and

comprehensively managing wastes. 

Chevron Niugini, WWF, the Kutubu

Joint Venture partners and the PNG

Chevron Niugini won praise for its

national and provincial governments

protection of Papua New Guinea

also continued the Kikori Integrated

rain forests, where the company

Conservation and Development

sold its operations in 2003.

Project, a partnership established

in 1994 to help protect the Kikori

River system by working with local people to establish a model of ecologi-

cally sustainable development. Noted scientist, environmentalist and

Pulitzer Prize-winning author Dr. Jared Diamond has done numerous bio-

logical surveys in the area of project operations. He has publicly praised

Chevron Niugini for the effectiveness of its environmental conservation

practices and has referred to the company’s license area as “New Guinea’s

premier conservation area.”

In 2003, ChevronTexaco sold its assets in PNG and has resigned as operator.

Joint venture participants have approved one of the companies, Oil Search

Ltd. (OSL), to assume operatorship of the producing and exploration licenses.

Final changeover of control will occur in October 2003. ChevronTexaco is

committed to maintaining existing Chevron Niugini environmental conserva-

tion and community development policies, programs and practices through

the transition to the new operatorship.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

52

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Environmental and Social Impact Assessments

Background: Using an Important Tool for Managing Impacts

Future Goals: Establishing Consistent Processes in

Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) processes are used by energy

Upstream Operations

companies to identify the potential environmental impacts of proposed

We believe we can more systematically use ESIAs as a tool to improve

projects and to show how they intend to manage and mitigate them.

our project planning, design and execution and to help manage the

ChevronTexaco and other energy companies have been conducting for-

social and environmental issues in both new projects and ongoing

mal EIAs for a number of years, and many governments now require

operations. Consequently, in 2002 ChevronTexaco launched an effort

such EIAs. Often, the perception of a company’s ability to effectively

to establish a consistent set of ESIA expectations and work processes

manage the environmental impacts of a project determines whether

to apply to its international upstream activities. This work is continu-

government agencies, local communities, business partners and other

ing in 2003.

stakeholders will grant the company permission to undertake the

project. In recent years, companies have begun experimenting with con-

ducting formal Social Impact Assessments (SIAs) and more comprehen-

sive Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs).

Approach: Integrating Results into Decision Making

Historically, ChevronTexaco has conducted EIAs wherever legally

required and for major new projects in environmentally sensitive loca-

tions. More recently, we have begun conducting SIAs and comprehensive

ESIAs for some major projects. For example, ChevronTexaco conducted

ESIA activities as part of several projects in 2002, including the Escravos

gas-to-liquids facility in Nigeria and the West Africa Gas Pipeline. In the

case of the pipeline, early input from the EIA allowed for up-front iden-

tiﬁcation of signiﬁcant impact areas and issues to be incorporated in

project design, as well as development of contractor requirements to

address such impacts. Integration of the EIA into the detailed pipeline

siting work helped to avoid sensitive areas and to reduce the project’s

“footprint” in sensitive areas that could not be avoided.

For another major project, early assessment of possible sites for a lique-

ﬁed natural gas facility in the Congo River Delta in northern Angola

enabled us to incorporate environmental criteria – such as sensitive

areas, fauna and ﬂora, protected areas, and cultural and historical sites –

into the site selection process.

ChevronTexaco also participates in several industry initiatives designed

to increase awareness of the need for and value of ESIAs and enhance

our own knowledge for designing and conducting them. For example,

we participated in the International Association of Oil and Gas Pro-

ducers (OGP) and International Petroleum Industry Environmental

Conservation Association’s efforts to develop a tool to help companies

identify and manage social impacts in oil and gas projects. In 2003, we

are participating in new OGP projects to further promote integration

of ESIAs into capital projects.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

53

Case Study >

Environmental Monitoring with 
Hyperspectral Imaging

In the Niger Delta, where lush,

towering mangroves provide

communities food and shelter,

ChevronTexaco’s afﬁliate, Chevron

Nigeria Ltd. (CNL), uses a space

technology, called hyperspectral

imaging, to “see” what the eye

cannot. The company is a leader 

in environmental remote sensing

among oil and gas companies in

Nigeria. By conducting “environ-

mental baseline” surveys using

this technology, CNL better moni-

tors its operations’ impacts on the

environment over time.

Using environmental baselineing

technology, Chevron Nigeria

launched a mangrove reforesta-

tion project.

The human eye sees a small portion of the electromagnetic spectrum

referred to as visible light. Hyperspectral instruments record more than

200 bands, allowing our technical experts to see objects over a continu-

ous portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that includes ultraviolet,

visible, near infrared and a portion of solar reﬂected infrared radiation.

CNL uses this and other remote sensing techniques onboard airplanes

and satellites to snap “photos” of the 2,510 sq miles (6,500 sq km)

where it conducts drilling, production and transportation operations.

With this technology, comprehensive information about the environment

is obtained on a regional and ecosystem scale that reveals patterns and

relationships unavailable when using traditional data-gathering techniques.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

Environmental Monitoring with
Hyperspectral Imaging

Product Stewardship

As the result of a baseline survey, the company developed a detailed

map for its operations in the Niger Delta to accurately depict the differ-

ent vegetation types of the region. The area comprises brackish and

freshwater swamps, both of which are interspersed and connected by

creeks, but they still maintain distinct characteristics in a delicate bal-

ance. Oil and gas activities can disrupt this balance. For example,

pipeline construction or dredging activities that cross vegetation types

can introduce salt water into freshwater zones causing damage to the

freshwater habitats. By developing this detailed map, CNL is able to 

plan its construction activities to avoid sensitive areas and help preserve

the delicate balance of the ecosystem. CNL also uses the technology 

for planning facilities, improving dredging practices, restoring impacted

sites and developing Environmental Sensitivity Index maps to aid in 

oil spill response.

Approach: Identifying Issues Early and Minimizing Risk

ChevronTexaco seeks to manage the environmental, health and safety

impacts of its products throughout their entire life cycle. This concept is

known as “product stewardship.”

Product stewardship is an integral part of ChevronTexaco’s health, envi-

ronment and safety policy and approach. We require our businesses to:

> Identify potential health, environment and safety impacts early in the

development of new or improved products, and minimize risks to

people and the environment throughout each product’s life cycle.

> Communicate information on potential hazards to people who use

our products or who might be affected by them, including workers,

customers, third parties and distributors.

ChevronTexaco has a variety of processes and programs in place that

help it meet these commitments. For example, several of our down-

stream operating companies have established formal risk management

processes in which they conduct routine product stewardship reviews

on all product lines on a three- to ﬁve-year cycle. They also conduct

product stewardship reviews for major changes and projects that have

potentially signiﬁcant environmental, health and safety impacts. To

oversee those efforts, several businesses employ staffs devoted exclu-

sively to product stewardship.

Product stewardship reviews sometimes result in signiﬁcant changes.

For example, a review of the 2003 introduction of ethanol into gasoline

marketed in California resulted in the development of an internal

ethanol storage and handling standard that we believe is among the

most comprehensive in the industry.

We also work to educate customers and the public on safe and responsi-

ble handling of our products. We are implementing a new, Web-based

global system for managing material safety data sheets (MSDSs) and

other health, environment and safety information. These documents

provide information on safe handling procedures for each of

ChevronTexaco’s products. Many countries require that this informa-

tion be made available, and ChevronTexaco is working to provide

MSDSs worldwide. The Web-based system currently stores more than

50,000 MSDSs, and we plan to complete implementation of the world-

wide MSDS system in 2004. We also have a 24-hour-a-day global hot-

line that provides public access to on-call technical specialists who can

answer questions about our products.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

54

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Product Stewardship, (Continued)

Case Study >

MTBE Phaseout & Cleanup

Future Goals: Implementing Processes Globally

Although product stewardship processes are well developed in several

operating companies, particularly in North America, ChevronTexaco

faces a challenge in implementing equivalent systems across all its oper-

ations. Toward that goal, in 2003 we created a central technology group

responsible for coordinating product stewardship issues for our global

nonfuels businesses, including lubricants, chemical additives, and

marine fuels and lubricants.

MTBE, or methyl tertiary butyl

ether, has been used as a blending

component in gasoline since 1979.

ChevronTexaco ﬁrst used MTBE in

the late 1980s to increase octane.

MTBE came into widespread use in

the United States after 1990, when

the Clean Air Act was amended to

Case Study >

Driving Safety Program in Thailand

require much of the nation’s gaso-

Chevron Texaco is eliminating our

line to contain oxygen, which was

use of MTBE in gasoline in Califor-

thought to reduce air emissions.

nia. We have replaced MTBE with

This oxygen requirement is met by

ethanol in our gasoline in southern

In an effort to raise public awareness around the issues of safe driving, fuel

including an “oxygenate,” usually

California, and will complete the

efﬁciency and environment protection, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, Caltex

either MTBE or ethanol, an alcohol

conversion to ethanol in northern

Oil (Thailand) Ltd., has teamed up with Thailand’s Land Transportation

derived from corn or other agricul-

California in advance of the state’s

Department, part of the Thai Ministry of Transport and Communications, to

tural crops.

December 2003 deadline.

sponsor a program called Save & Safe. The program also is supported by 10

automobile and motorcycle manufacturers.

But in attempting to solve an air

The program, which began in 2000,

focuses on promoting safe and fuel-

efﬁcient driving techniques. Driver

training is coupled with free engine

checkups and aimed at minimizing

air and noise pollution. In many

locations in Thailand, training is

provided for professional drivers

(such as school bus drivers) and

ordinary drivers. 

The free vehicle checkups, emissions

testing and tune-ups help drivers

The company’s Save & Safe

program promotes public

awareness of safe driving and

environmental conservation 

in Thailand.

better understand how to keep their vehicles maintained to reduce emis-

sions and save fuel. Nearly 300 school buses were checked recently at a

Save and Safe event at the Department of Land Transport in Bangkok. A

quality problem, the widespread use of MTBE has created a different

problem. MTBE is signiﬁcantly more soluble in water and persistent in the

environment than other gasoline components. As a result, leaks and spills

of gasoline that contains MTBE can be difﬁcult to clean up, particularly

when they reach groundwater. Some drinking-water supplies that have

been contaminated by MTBE have been shut down pending remediation.

Consumers and government agencies in many parts of the United States

now oppose the use of MTBE in gasoline. Many state governments have

enacted or are considering mandatory phaseouts. These actions are based

not on health concerns, but on the fact that, in even very small amounts,

MTBE can make water taste and smell unpleasant. ChevronTexaco is

responding to MTBE concerns in several ways:

> We are assessing and cleaning up as appropriate our current and former

service stations sites that have been affected by leaks or spills of gasoline

containing MTBE.

total of 8,539 vehicles were tested in four provinces in Thailand in 2002.

> We no longer produce MTBE in North America. We have closed the MTBE

The program also has provided an opportunity for dozens of aspiring

mechanics from Thai technical institutions to acquire valuable training and

experience by conducting the engine inspections and tune-ups. An esti-

mated 30,000 autos and motorcycles have been inspected in the nine

provinces and major metropolitan areas in the roughly three years in which

Save and Safe has been operational.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

55

production facilities at our reﬁneries in Richmond, California; El Segundo,

California; and Pascagoula, Mississippi. Our joint venture with a company

that once produced MTBE in Canada has switched its production to isooc-

tane, a clean-burning gasoline blending component that does not have

the same water quality concerns.

2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report

Environmental Issues

Case Study >
(Continued)

MTBE Phaseout & Cleanup

Environmental Expenditures and Fines

Environmental Expenditures

> We are eliminating our use of MTBE in California. Where the law requires

Using deﬁnitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum

us to use an oxygenate, we are converting from MTBE to ethanol. We

Institute, ChevronTexaco estimates its worldwide environmental

have replaced MTBE with ethanol in our gasoline in Southern California

spending in 2002 at US $1.3 billion for its consolidated companies.

and will complete the conversion to ethanol in Northern California in

Included in these expenditures are $399 million of environmental

advance of the state’s December 2003 deadline.

> We have worked hard to improve groundwater cleanup processes and

technology. ChevronTexaco Energy Technology Company has joined with

a number of government and private organizations to manage research

on how to better clean up groundwater affected by oxygenates. Our

technical experts also have taught courses for the California State Water

Resources Board and EPA on this subject.

Additionally, ChevronTexaco is pursuing government action to require 

the phaseout of MTBE in gasoline in the United States. We also continue

to pursue alternatives to government oxygenate mandates since we have

shown that it is possible to make gasolines that achieve the air quality

beneﬁts without adding any oxygenate.

The experience with MTBE illustrates the importance of looking at all

aspects of a product’s potential impacts. It has provided our company,

the petroleum industry and government agencies with useful lessons,

which ChevronTexaco already has begun integrating into its approach 

to other product stewardship issues.

capital expenditures and $925 million of costs associated with the

control and abatement of hazardous substances and pollutants from

our ongoing operations. This spending represents approximately

4.3 percent of capital and exploratory expenditures and 11.8 percent

4.28

by various agencies in addition

of operating expenses in 2002.

Health, Environment, and  
Safety Fines and Settlements*

Total 
number
of fines

1000

Total paid
(Millions
of $U.S.)

5

4

3

2

1

0

792

519

388

1.44

0.94

0.95

278

800

600

400

200

0

99

00

01

02

Total paid in millions of $U.S. (left scale)

Total number of fines (right scale)

*1999–2000 data are Chevron. 2001–2002 data 

are ChevronTexaco.

Environmental Fines

At times, ChevronTexaco facili-

ties have not met all governmen-

tal environmental requirements,

resulting in ﬁnes and penalties

to ongoing environmental expen-

ditures. We regret these lapses

and are committed to learning

from them to continually

improve our compliance with

all applicable requirements. In

2002, ChevronTexaco paid 82

environmental ﬁnes or settle-

ments for a total of US$4.3 mil-

lion. Although the number of

individual ﬁnes and settlements

decreased from 2001, the total

dollar amount paid out increased

signiﬁcantly. This is attributable primarily to settlements in the United

States. Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and settlements in 2002 included: US$1.55 mil-

lion for groundwater contamination near the El Segundo Reﬁnery in

California; US$750,000 for environmental violations at upstream opera-

tions in Rangely, Colorado; US$869,992 for environmental violations in

Aneth, Utah, upstream operations; and US$250,000 in penalties associated

with a ﬁre at the Aneth gas plant.

In 2002, we also paid 196 ﬁnes or settlements for noncompliance with

health and safety regulations at our facilities. The total dollar amount

associated with these ﬁnes or settlements was relatively small.

© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

56

