The Value
of Partnership

2009 Corporate Responsibility Report

Welcome

We believe that our business — 
providing energy — is necessary 
for human progress and is 
intrinsically tied to the quality of 
life in societies throughout the 
world. We welcome you to read 
this report and visit our Web 
site to learn how we operate 
responsibly to help meet the 
need for safe, reliable and 
affordable supplies of energy.

Corporate responsibility at Chevron means 
demonstrating the vision and values of The 
Chevron Way throughout our corporation, 
throughout our operations, and throughout 
our partnerships. In this document — our eighth 
annual Corporate Responsibility Report — we are 
proud to share how our environmental, social 
and governance systems, processes and actions 
support our vision to be the global energy 
company most admired for its people, partner-
ship and performance. This report discusses 
our seven pillars of corporate responsibility: the 
environment, health and safety; human rights; 
stakeholder engagement; community engage-
ment; workforce; supply chain; and ethics.

We are deeply committed to conducting 
business in a socially responsible and ethical 
manner, and this report outlines our efforts to 
continually improve our performance and prac-
tices. The content was selected because of its 
significance to our business and its importance 
to our partners: communities, employees, inves-
tors and nongovernmental organizations that 
have an interest in our industry. Our corporate 
responsibility efforts are led by all employees 
and are supported by a team of subject mat-
ter experts in the environment, climate, health, 
safety, human resources, procurement, technol-
ogy and social investment.

In This Report

Organizational Profile  2
Operating and Financial  
  Highlights  2
A Message From Our CEO  3
The Chevron Way:  
  Living Our Values  4
Priorities, Progress and Plans  6
Climate Change  8
Renewable Energy  13
Environmental Management  16
Executive Interview  23

On the Cover

Community Engagement  24
Workforce  32
Procurement/Supply Chain  37
Human Rights  39
Governance and Ethics  41
Revenue Transparency  42
Performance Recognition  42
Assurance Statement  43
About This Report  43
GRI and API/IPIECA Index  44
Glossary

Caregivers Pinkie Sindi (center) and Nothobile Nombulelo Nomadluka 
(right), from the Dunoon Community Home-Based Care Center, bring 
soup to a homebound man suffering from HIV/AIDS.

In Dunoon, South Africa, near Chevron’s Cape Town Refinery, 
Chevron collaborated with the Western Cape Department of Social 
Development and the nonprofit Heavenly Promise to create the center, 
which women from the Dunoon community manage and staff. The 
partnership provided project management training to the center’s 
staff, enabling the center to be highly successful — run by the commu-
nity for the community. Watch the video at Chevron.com/Dunoon.

Philippines

Fighting Tuberculosis — 
One Driver at a Time

Above: As part of Chevron’s $30 million commitment 
to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, 
we use our network of more than 850 Caltex service stations, 
terminals and other facilities in the Philippines as centers to 
disseminate information about tuberculosis prevention and 
treatment. Here, Caltex attendant Dexter Diola shares infor-
mation with Jeepney driver Eduardo Torno.

In a similar Global Fund partnership in Thailand, we distrib-
uted more than 40,000 HIV/AIDS-awareness brochures to 
youth who stopped at Bangkok service stations. Retailers 
are receiving positive feedback on the program.

Chevron is distinguished as the first Global Fund Corporate 
Champion, implementing programs in Angola, Indonesia, 
Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa and Thailand. The Global 
Fund selected us because of our highly successful community 
engagement programs to tackle HIV/AIDS and malaria and 
our award-winning HIV/AIDS workplace programs.

1

Organizational Profile

Upstream 

Gas  

Downstream 

Renewable  
Energy

Other  
Businesses

Enabling  
Strategies

Strategy:  
Grow profitably in core 
areas and build new 
legacy positions.

Upstream explores for 
and produces crude oil 
and natural gas. Major 
producing areas include 
Angola, Australia, 
Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, 
Brazil, Canada, Denmark, 
Indonesia, Kazakhstan, 
Nigeria, the Partitioned 
Zone between Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait, 
Thailand, the United 
Kingdom, the United 
States, and Venezuela. 
Major offshore explo-
ration areas include 
western Africa, Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, the Gulf 
of Thailand, the United 
Kingdom and the U.S.  
Gulf of Mexico.

Strategy:  
Commercialize our 
equity natural gas 
resource base while 
growing a high-impact 
global gas business.

Chevron is involved 
in every aspect of the 
natural gas business — 
production, liquefaction, 
shipping, regasification, 
pipelines, marketing and 
trading, power genera-
tion, and gas-to-liquids 
technology. We hold 
the largest natural gas 
resource position in 
Australia and have signifi-
cant holdings in western 
Africa, Bangladesh, China, 
Indonesia, Kazakhstan, 
North America, the 
Philippines, South 
America, Thailand, the 
United Kingdom and 
Vietnam.

Strategy:  
Improve returns and 
selectively grow, with 
a focus on integrated 
value creation.

Downstream includes 
manufacturing, fuels 
and lubricants market-
ing, supply and trading, 
and transportation. 
Significant areas of 
operations are southern 
Africa, Latin America, 
North America, Southeast 
Asia, South Korea and  
the United Kingdom. 
We hold interests in 
16 fuel refineries and 
 market under the 
Chevron, Texaco and 
Caltex brands. Products 
are sold through a 
network of retailers 
and service stations.

Strategy:  
Invest in renewable 
energy technologies 
and capture profitable 
positions.

Chevron is the world’s 
largest producer of 
geothermal energy, with 
operations in Indonesia 
and the Philippines. The 
company has forged 
alliances to develop 
other forms of renewable 
energy, including biofuels 
from nonfood plant 
sources. Chevron Energy 
Solutions Co. helps inter-
nal and external clients 
improve their energy effi-
ciency, conserve energy, 
and install alternative 
energy systems that use 
solar power, fuel cells 
and biomass.

Chevron Phillips Chemical 
Co. LLC, our 50 percent-
owned equity affiliate, is 
one of the world’s leading 
manufacturers of com-
modity petrochemicals. 
Chevron Oronite Co. LLC 
develops, manufactures 
and markets worldwide 
quality additives that 
improve the performance 
of fuels and lubricants. 
As of January 2010, 
these two companies are 
being reported as part of 
Downstream. Other busi-
nesses include mining, 
power generation, and 
research and technology.

Three enabling   
strategies apply to  
every organization 
across the enterprise:

•  Invest in people to 

achieve our strategies.

•  Leverage technology  
to deliver superior  
performance and  
growth.

•  Build organizational 
capability to deliver 
world-class perform-
ance in operational 
excellence, cost  
management, capital 
stewardship and profit-
able growth.

Operational Excellence Management System

Operating and Financial Highlights1, 2

2008	

2009

We seek to develop a culture in which everyone believes that all incidents are 
preventable and that “zero incidents” is possible. This requires active leadership 
and all employees to be engaged.

Chevron’s Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) describes the 
company’s uniform approach to systematic management of safety, health, the 
environment, reliability and efficiency. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., 
attested that OEMS is implemented throughout the corporation and that it meets 
all the requirements of both the International Organization for Standardization’s 
environmental management systems standard (ISO 14001) and the Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment Series requirements for occupational health and 
safety management systems (OHSAS 18001).

In 2007, we voluntarily undertook a systematic approach to identifying and 
managing risks. During our initial review, we identified 307 potential risks that 
warranted additional action, in the form of either risk reduction measures or a 
more detailed review to better assess the potential risk and determine appro-
priate action. By the end of 2009, additional reviews and risk reduction plans, 
when appropriate, had been completed for 299 of those potential risks, with 
eight remaining risk reduction plans anticipated to be completed in 2010. The 
results of this process will allow us to tailor OEMS more effectively in the most 
 material areas.

Additionally, the Corporate OE Audit Group conducts audits across the enterprise. 
OEMS processes and performance are audited every three years for operations 
groups and five years for staff groups. Other staff groups are reviewed as per-
form ance indicators warrant. Management receives the results of the evaluations, 
and groups report annually to the corporation on their progress in addressing 
significant issues.

Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 

1,649	

1,846 

(Thousands of barrels per day)

Net production of natural gas (Millions of cubic feet per day) 

5,125	

Net production of oil sands (Thousands of barrels per day) 

27	

4,989

26

Total net oil-equivalent production  

(Thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day) 

Net proved oil-equivalent reserves3, 4 (Millions of barrels) 
  — Affiliated companies 
  — Consolidated companies 

Income tax expense 

Payroll costs5 

Employee benefit costs6 

2,530	

2,704

3,291	
7,905	

$19,026	

$4,473	

$2,196	

3,012 
8,303

$7,965

$4,627

$2,473

Net income attributable to Chevron Corporation 

$23,931	

$10,483

Capital and exploratory expenditures 

Total assets at year-end 

Return on stockholders’ equity 

$22,775	

$22,237

$161,165	

$164,621

29.2%	

11.7%

1  Production statistics and capital and exploratory expenditures include equity in affiliates.
2	 Currency	amounts	are	US$	millions.
3	 	Liquids	consist	of	crude	oil,	condensate,	natural	gas	liquids	and	synthetic	oil.	For	2009,	this	

includes	460	million	barrels	of	synthetic	oil	from	Canadian	oil	sands.	None	are	included	for	2008.

4  At year-end.
5  Excludes incentive bonuses.
6   Includes pension costs, employee severance, savings and profit-sharing plans, other post-

employment benefits, social insurance plans, and other benefits.

2

 
 
 
 
 
A Message From Our CEO
Sustainable Energy for the 21st Century

Today more than ever, global economic 
prosperity and quality of life depend on supplies 
of reliable, affordable energy. Developing that 
energy safely and responsibly is an imperative. 

It’s an honor to lead Chevron into a future 
that builds upon a tradition of producing 
energy in a safe, environmentally sound 
and socially responsible manner. In this 
year’s Corporate Responsibility Report, 
our intent is to give you a glimpse of how 
Chevron employees do so every day.

Integrating corporate responsibility into 
our business is an important part of how 
we produce and deliver energy. As a result, 
we create enduring economic and social 
value. For example, in 2009, we sanctioned 
our Gorgon liquefied natural gas project off 
the northwest coast of Australia. Gorgon 
is the largest energy project in our history 
and will integrate environmental, economic 
and social benefits for our company, our 
community, and our business and govern-
ment partners. It’s a $37 billion investment 
that is expected to generate thousands 
of jobs and produce energy for millions of 
homes and businesses in Australia, Asia 
and beyond for the next 40 years.

To reduce Gorgon’s carbon emissions, we 
will include one of the largest CO2-injection 
projects in the world. At the same time, 
Gorgon will sustain the environmental 
integrity of Barrow Island, a Class A nature 
reserve that has been a model for the 
coexistence of energy development and 
biodiversity since Chevron began oil opera-
tions there in 1964.

Gorgon is representative of the enduring 
energy partnerships needed to be success-
ful in the 21st century — partnerships that 
involve local, national and international 

stakeholders, both public and private, 
working together to benefit millions of 
people. This type of partnership, one of 
Chevron’s fundamental strengths, is a con-
stant theme you’ll encounter as you read 
this report. 

Our significant energy investments and 
on-the-ground partnerships around the 
world not only help meet the world’s long-
term demand for energy, but they also help 
create jobs, support local supply chains, 
and strengthen economies and communi-
ties. We work closely with communities to 
design and implement strategic community 
engagement programs to advance health, 
education and sustainable socioeconomic 
development. We recognize that our busi-
ness performance and growth depend on 
the well-being of the communities where 
we operate. 

Chevron’s 2009 accomplishments that 
advanced our corporate responsibil-
ity objectives are covered in this report. 
Highlights include the following:

 • We achieved record safety performance, 

with fewer workplace injuries than 
ever before, and we continue to work 
relentlessly to achieve our target of 
zero incidents. 

 • We advanced our three-year, $30 million 
investment in the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We are 
working with new and existing partners 
in six countries — Angola, Indonesia, 
Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa and 

Thailand — to expand the Global Fund’s 
reach in combating these diseases. 

 • We continued our engagement on the 
issue of climate change. In the 2009 
Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, 
Chevron ranked first among global 
companies in the energy sector. We have 
become more energy efficient in our global 
business functions, a significant step in 
reducing our carbon footprint.

 • We adopted a new Human Rights Policy, 
which builds on Chevron’s longstanding 
commitment to respecting human rights. 
Our new policy will lead to more consistent 
and rigorous global implementation of our 
human rights processes in our operations.

As I visit our operations around the world, 
I am privileged to see firsthand how our 
employees get results the right way, oper-
ating with the highest standards of ethics 
and integrity. It’s a source of pride for all 
of us, but we know we can never rest. The 
expectations of our investors, governments 
and communities — and our own expecta-
tions — are high. We are constantly 
guided by the values expressed in The 
Chevron Way. 

John S. Watson
John S. Watson
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

3

The Chevron Way
Living Our Values

Corporate responsibility is intrinsic to the way we 
do business. In our many activities and in the many 
regions where we operate, we are guided by our 
vision and values, as expressed in The Chevron Way. 
Our values are more than just words on a page. At all 
levels of the organization, our employees demonstrate 
their commitment to The Chevron Way in their work 
each day. A selection of their stories follows. 

To read about our vision and values, please visit Chevron.com/ChevronWay.

Trust
In 2009, we reached a milestone of 1 billion 
barrels produced at the Takula Field. Throughout 
my 27 years working on this platform, I have wit-
nessed the gradual development of the field and 
have seen the team work together as a family. 
This has helped us build trust in each other and 
a culture to ensure that everybody stays safe. 
Having trust in our co-workers is an important 
part of our accomplishment, especially offshore. 
I am proud to have been a part of this team.

Paulo Luquimbi 
Area Project Coordinator 
Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd. 
Takula Field, offshore Angola

High Performance
In my role of leading the company’s energy effi-
ciency improvement efforts, I see many examples 
of high performance. It is inspiring to watch our 
Energy Teams drive toward better performance and 
close efficiency gaps — be it by managing our steam 
systems better, reducing flare losses, developing 
new best practices or piloting new technologies. 
Part of my role is to connect the dots. When I see 
improvements in one operation, I share those prac-
tices with other operations where they might be 
applied. We measure our performance against our 
internal best and our external competition, so we 
really understand what it takes to be excellent. 

Tim Nelson, Corporate Energy Coordinator  
Chevron Global Manufacturing 
San Ramon, California, U.S.

4

Protecting People  
and the Environment
The best part of my job is working with people who are 
passionate about protecting the environment and who 
know it is good for business. Some of our facilities are 
home to plant and animal species that are no longer 
found in surrounding areas, species such as the bee 
orchid that grows within the Pembroke Refinery, United 
Kingdom, and the red-legged frog in restoration ponds 
at Guadalupe Dunes, United States. In Indonesia and 
Australia, we operate safely in nature reserves and have 
a longstanding record of protecting the environment.

Sarah Connick, Biodiversity Manager 
Chevron Corporation, San Ramon, California, U.S.

Integrity
Integrity is dear to me, and I am gratified  
to see that it is also valued by the company. 
Coming from an engineering background, 
I didn’t expect to learn much biology while 
working for Chevron. But as a senior 
remediation engineer, I and my team have 
to consider animal behavior and needs 
when working in wildlife habitats. This has 
become an enjoyable part of my job, and 
my appreciation for the company’s efforts 
to do the right thing has grown. I’m proud 
to work for an ethical company that operates 
responsibly, not only because it has to but 
because it wants to.

Yasser Fahmy, Ph.D., PE, Project Manager  
Chevron Environmental Management Co.  
Brea, California, U.S., and  
Wafra Oil Field, Partitioned Zone

Ingenuity
Area 1-7S at Duri Field in Indonesia has 
700 wells, and one of our biggest challenges 
as field operators is to prevent leakage from 
wellhead stuffing boxes. We regularly use 
tools such as V-belts or polished rod clamps 
to hold the upper assembly when replacing 
worn rubber. Our team saw an opportu-
nity to make this process safer and more 
efficient, and we had the full support of our 
team leader. We named our new tools after 
our inventors: the MexTon Clamp (for Mexwel 
and Toni) and the AfDar Anchor (for Afrizal 
and Darlis). Our invention was presented at 
Chevron’s Heavy Oil Operational Excellence 
Forum in 2009, and it later received the 
Teladan Award for exemplary achievement. 
This story proves that ingenuity can have a 
big impact and there are no challenges that 
cannot be overcome. We are very proud of 
this achievement. Go, Area 1-7S!

Gunawan, Field Operator  
PT. Chevron Pacific Indonesia 
Duri, Indonesia

Partnership
I see how our company’s valuing partner-
ship is put into action where I work. At 
our nonoperated joint-venture refinery in 
Singapore, we encouraged our partners 
and contractors to participate in processes 
that were new to them but familiar to 
Chevron employees — such as evaluations 
and safety sessions — and to participate in 
celebrations of successes along the way. 
This inclusion helped create team spirit and 
provided a level of transparency and com-
mon knowledge that benefited the project. 
Through Chevron’s shared commitment of 
resources (time, money and knowledge) by 
our employees and the company, our part-
ners and contractors saw that they weren’t 
on their own for safety and environmental 
performance. We demonstrated that we 
wanted their employees to be as safe as 
our own employees.

Karl Kimball  
Project Manager, Mogas Cogen Project 
Singapore Refining Co., Singapore

5

Diversity
As a company operating at many different locations 
around the world, Chevron greatly values diversity. 
My research team is a multinational group from 
India, Turkey, Pakistan, China, Cambodia, Costa Rica 
and the United States. We greatly benefit from that. 
We all bring a different view to the table.

Oya Karazincir (right)  
Enhanced Oil Recovery Consultant  
Chevron Energy Technology Co.  
Houston, Texas, U.S.

Priorities, Progress and Plans

Priority Area

What We Said We Would Do in 2009

What We Did in 2009

What We Plan to Do Next

Environmental

•	

Continue to reduce flaring and venting in our operations where feasible.

•	

Reduced emissions from flaring and venting by 8 percent, and advanced several  

•	

Advance plans to reduce flaring 

•	

•	

•	

Advance the “I Will” campaign to continue to reinforce energy 
conservation and efficiency.

Continue to promote consumer energy efficiency at WillYouJoinUs.com, 
and educate and engage people on global energy issues.

Work to LEED-certify (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) 
some facilities in Texas and California.

•	

Begin reporting total waste metrics.

•	

Develop a reporting protocol, to roll out in 2010, for total water use.

•	

Continue Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 
alignment with industry standards to achieve performance objectives 
and improve operations.

Socioeconomic

•	

Implement Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 
(ESHIA) for all major Upstream capital projects worldwide.

•	

Implemented ESHIA for all major Upstream capital projects worldwide, and began 

implementation for small capital projects.  ▲

•	

Evaluate the initial outcomes of 

our Global Fund program.

•	

Deploy a best-practices guide for using local suppliers.

•	

Deployed a best-practices guide for using local suppliers, and adopted that guide as a 

•	

Update guidance on our Social 

•	

•	

•	

•	

•	

Promote the recommendations made to then President-elect Obama 
and the U.S. Congress on energy, the environment and the economy.

Improve collaboration with stakeholder groups in areas key to 
Chevron’s business objectives.

Develop programs, working with local communities, to promote human 
progress and economic development.

Continue negotiating successor agreements with Regional Development 
Committees (RDCs) in the Niger Delta.

Launch the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 
partnership programs in Nigeria, Indonesia, Angola and Thailand.

•	

Roll out a cardiovascular health benefit program companywide.

•	

Sustain our commitment to reduce all incidents to zero.

•	

•	

•	

•	

Develop and pilot computer-based and instructor-led employee training 
on tuberculosis.

Strengthen our commitment to Operational Discipline (“Every task,  
the right way, every time”).

Continue global promotion of the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights.

Continue to deploy internally the company’s Guidelines on the 
Voluntary Principles.

6

major projects.  ▲

where feasible.

•	

Received LEED Silver certification for a facility in Anchorage, Alaska. Submitted 

•	

Work toward our five-year 

applications for LEED certification at four additional facilities.  ◆

•	

Developed and rolled out new tools to help manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 

from proposed capital projects.  ▲

•	

Decreased our own energy consumption per unit of output by 30 percent since 1992, 

which is further improvement from 2008’s 28 percent decrease since 1992.  ▲

•	

Achieved the final investment decision on our Gorgon Project, which includes carbon 

data.

dioxide injection.  ▲

•	

Began reporting total waste. 

▲

•	

Developed an improved compliance assurance and environmental management tool 

for enterprisewide application.  ▲

•	

Completed our environmental strategy review, which informed the development  

of a water strategy and environmental processes.  ◆

goal of top-quartile energy 

efficiency performance under 

the ENERGY STAR® program, 

for our major, owned North 

America office facilities.

•	

Begin collecting total water-use 

•	

Deploy our corporate 

environmental stewardship 

process. 

strategy.

•	

Develop a corporate freshwater 

Global Upstream process.  ▲

Impact Assessment.

•	

Promoted recommendations on policy matters that include the economy, energy, 

climate change, international issues, and research and development.  ◆

•	

Continue to promote our 

commitment to zero incidents.

•	

Achieved attestation from Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., that our OEMS 

•	

Deploy a revised tuberculosis 

meets all requirements of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and is implemented throughout 

training program.

•	

Begin to deploy our Human 

Rights Policy, which includes 

revising training and enhancing 

security processes.

the corporation.  ▲

•	

Invested more than $144 million in community engagement initiatives. 

◆

•	

Negotiated eight agreements with RDCs in the Niger Delta. 

▲

•	

Launched Global Fund partnership programs in Nigeria, Indonesia, Angola  

and Thailand.  ▲

•	

Increased Chevron’s commitment to Chevron Humankind from $10 million to 

$15 million, which resulted in $48 million in employee donations and company matches 

to more than 10,000 nonprofits.  ▲

•	

Experienced our safest year ever. 

▲

•	

Continued to roll out our cardiovascular program, which now reaches more than 

14,000 employees.  ◆

•	

Mourned the loss of nine people in 2009 who were working on our behalf. 

▼

•	

Completed assessment of tuberculosis training in the Philippines, and are revising  

the global training based on feedback.  ◆

•	

Developed an Operational Discipline intranet site for deployment in 2010. 

◆

•	

Conducted training on the Voluntary Principles for more than 2,300 private and public 

security providers globally.  ▲

•	

Engaged stakeholders in drafting our Human Rights Policy, which we adopted. 

▲

Priority Area

What We Said We Would Do in 2009

What We Did in 2009

What We Plan to Do Next

Environmental

Socioeconomic

•	

Continue to reduce flaring and venting in our operations where feasible.

•	

Advance the “I Will” campaign to continue to reinforce energy 

conservation and efficiency.

•	

Continue to promote consumer energy efficiency at WillYouJoinUs.com, 

and educate and engage people on global energy issues.

•	

Work to LEED-certify (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) 

some facilities in Texas and California.

•	

Begin reporting total waste metrics.

•	

Develop a reporting protocol, to roll out in 2010, for total water use.

•	

Continue Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) 

alignment with industry standards to achieve performance objectives 

and improve operations.

•	

Implement Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 

(ESHIA) for all major Upstream capital projects worldwide.

•	

Deploy a best-practices guide for using local suppliers.

•	

Promote the recommendations made to then President-elect Obama 

and the U.S. Congress on energy, the environment and the economy.

•	

Improve collaboration with stakeholder groups in areas key to 

Chevron’s business objectives.

•	

Develop programs, working with local communities, to promote human 

progress and economic development.

•	

Continue negotiating successor agreements with Regional Development 

Committees (RDCs) in the Niger Delta.

•	

Launch the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria 

partnership programs in Nigeria, Indonesia, Angola and Thailand.

•	

Roll out a cardiovascular health benefit program companywide.

•	

Sustain our commitment to reduce all incidents to zero.

•	

Develop and pilot computer-based and instructor-led employee training 

on tuberculosis.

•	

Strengthen our commitment to Operational Discipline (“Every task,  

the right way, every time”).

•	

Continue global promotion of the Voluntary Principles on Security and 

Human Rights.

Voluntary Principles.

•	

Continue to deploy internally the company’s Guidelines on the 

•	

•	

•	

•	

Advance plans to reduce flaring 
where feasible.

Work toward our five-year 
goal of top-quartile energy 
efficiency performance under 
the ENERGY STAR® program, 
for our major, owned North 
America office facilities.

Begin collecting total water-use 
data.

Deploy our corporate 
environmental stewardship 
process. 

•	

Develop a corporate freshwater 
strategy.

•	

•	

•	

•	

•	

Evaluate the initial outcomes of 
our Global Fund program.

Update guidance on our Social 
Impact Assessment.

Continue to promote our 
commitment to zero incidents.

Deploy a revised tuberculosis 
training program.

Begin to deploy our Human 
Rights Policy, which includes 
revising training and enhancing 
security processes.

•	

•	

•	

•	

•	

Reduced emissions from flaring and venting by 8 percent, and advanced several  
major projects.  ▲

Received LEED Silver certification for a facility in Anchorage, Alaska. Submitted 
applications for LEED certification at four additional facilities.  ◆

Developed and rolled out new tools to help manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
from proposed capital projects.  ▲

Decreased our own energy consumption per unit of output by 30 percent since 1992, 
which is further improvement from 2008’s 28 percent decrease since 1992.  ▲

Achieved the final investment decision on our Gorgon Project, which includes carbon 
dioxide injection.  ▲

•	

Began reporting total waste. 

▲

•	

•	

•	

•	

•	

•	

Developed an improved compliance assurance and environmental management tool 
for enterprisewide application.  ▲

Completed our environmental strategy review, which informed the development  
of a water strategy and environmental processes.  ◆

Implemented ESHIA for all major Upstream capital projects worldwide, and began 
implementation for small capital projects.  ▲

Deployed a best-practices guide for using local suppliers, and adopted that guide as a 
Global Upstream process.  ▲

Promoted recommendations on policy matters that include the economy, energy, 
climate change, international issues, and research and development.  ◆

Achieved attestation from Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., that our OEMS 
meets all requirements of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and is implemented throughout 
the corporation.  ▲

•	

Invested more than $144 million in community engagement initiatives. 

◆

•	

Negotiated eight agreements with RDCs in the Niger Delta. 

▲

•	

•	

Launched Global Fund partnership programs in Nigeria, Indonesia, Angola  
and Thailand.  ▲

Increased Chevron’s commitment to Chevron Humankind from $10 million to 
$15 million, which resulted in $48 million in employee donations and company matches 
to more than 10,000 nonprofits.  ▲

•	

Experienced our safest year ever. 

▲

•	

Continued to roll out our cardiovascular program, which now reaches more than 
14,000 employees.  ◆

•	

Mourned the loss of nine people in 2009 who were working on our behalf. 

▼

•	

Completed assessment of tuberculosis training in the Philippines, and are revising  
the global training based on feedback.  ◆

•	

Developed an Operational Discipline intranet site for deployment in 2010. 

◆

•	

Conducted training on the Voluntary Principles for more than 2,300 private and public 
security providers globally.  ▲

•	

Engaged stakeholders in drafting our Human Rights Policy, which we adopted. 

▲

▲  Area of performance improvement  ◆  Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline  ▼  Area of performance decline

7

Climate Change
Climate Change and Chevron’s Response

We are working to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions related to our 
operations and products and to implement innovative solutions that expand 
our portfolio to meet the demands of our customers for affordable, reliable 
and clean supplies of energy.

As we work to reduce GHGs, our collective 
challenge is to create solutions that protect 
the environment without undermining the 
growth of the global economy. 

Our Action Plan on Climate Change
In 2001, Chevron began implementing its 
Action Plan on Climate Change to man-
age and reduce GHG emissions. The plan 
calls for reducing emissions and increasing 
energy efficiency; investing in research, 
development and improved technology; 
pursuing business opportunities in promis-
ing, innovative energy technologies; and 
supporting flexible and economically sound 
policies and mechanisms that protect 
the environment.

In 2009, our total emissions were 57.4 mil-
lion metric tons, better than our goal of 
60.5 million metric tons.1 Our GHG emis-
sions intensity in 2009 was approximately 
33 metric tons of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 
barrels of net oil-equivalent production 
from our Upstream operations, down from 
37 metric tons in 2008. Our Downstream 
intensity was approximately 36 metric 
tons of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels of 
crude oil that was input into our refiner-
ies, the same as in 2008. Our preliminary 
goal for 2010 is 59.0 million metric tons. 
While we expect normal production levels 
and emissions to resume in areas where 
disruptions occurred, we also expect to 
sustain the emission reductions achieved 
by maintaining energy efficiency improve-
ments and by reducing flaring and venting. 
We estimate that combustion of our prod-
ucts resulted in emissions of approximately 
410 million metric tons of carbon dioxide in 
2009, approximately 7 percent more than 
the 382 million metric tons in 2008.2 When 
compared with the International Energy 
Agency’s Key World Energy Statistics 
(2009 edition), these emissions represent 
approximately 1.4 percent of global CO2 
emissions from fossil fuels, which is lower 
than the 1.7 percent of global CO2 emis-
sions when we first began estimating the 
GHG emissions from our products in 2002.

8

Reducing Emissions — Flaring
In 2009, Chevron advanced several flare 
reduction projects and reduced overall 
GHG emissions from flaring and vent-
ing by 8 percent. Managing the routine 
flaring and venting of “associated” gas 
(the natural gas extracted with crude oil 
during production) is an ongoing chal-
lenge for Chevron and other operators 
in countries having limited infrastructure 
for delivering natural gas where it can be 
put to beneficial use. For the past seven 
years, we have been a partner in the World 
Bank–led Global Gas Flaring Reduction 
Initiative to facilitate flaring reduction. 
We have executed a series of commercial 
projects to capture and use the gas, with 
the cooperation of industry and govern-
ment partners.

We identified additional activities that, if 
successful, will eliminate 80 percent of our 
pre-existing flares and will create facilities 

Flare Reduction

As of year-end 2009 in Kazakhstan, 
Tengizchevroil — in which Chevron 
is a 50 percent partner — no longer 
flares natural gas except when 
necessary for safety. Through the 
four-year, $258 million gas utilization 
project, gas that previously would 
have been flared or vented can now 
be processed for sale or used to sup-
port plant operations.

to enable other operators to reduce their 
flaring and control future levels.

Angola With the completion of the Takula 
Gas Processing Platform and the Takula 
Flare and Relief Modifications (FARM) 
projects, routine gas flaring was reduced 
in the Takula Field offshore Angola by 
approximately 50 million cubic feet per 
day (mmcf/d). In June 2009, modifications 
were completed in the Takula area to end 
routine flaring.

The Block 0 FARM project is one of  
several that play an important role in 
eliminating routine flaring in Chevron’s 
operations. The Takula Gas Processing 
Platform, placed into service in Decem-
ber 2008, added gas compression capacity 
in the Takula Field. The Cabinda Gas Plant, 
whose commissioning began in 2009, 
will eliminate an additional 7 mmcf/d of 
routine flaring at the Malongo terminal. 
The Malongo Field portion of the proj-
ect is scheduled to begin in 2011 and will 
enable us to complete the Block 0 Area A 
projects to capture and redirect gas to 
compression facilities so that the gas can 
be exported, extracted, reinjected or used 
in liquids recovery. Reinjected gas will be 
available for future recovery if needed for 
field operations or for commercialization 
opportunities.

Nigeria For more than 15 years, Chevron 
has invested in a series of flare reduction 
projects in Nigeria, including projects that 
focus on capture and delivery of natural 
gas from existing flares and other projects 
that create the opportunity for previ-
ously flared gas to serve new gas markets 
throughout western Africa. By mid-2009, 
the offshore Agbami facility was operating 
with no routine flaring through reinjection 
of associated gas, demonstrating the abil-
ity to develop new oil production facilities 
without flaring. Chevron continues to work 
with its production partners in Nigeria on a 
series of additional projects to address the 
remaining flares.

GHG Emissions by Source 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

  Combustion 

  Flaring and venting 

  Other

GHG Emissions by Sector 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

  Upstream 

  Downstream 

  Other

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

12.5

13.6

14.6

16.4

14.9

4.6

4.8

4.8

5.3

6.0

40.3

41.2

41.0

39.8

37.9

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

1.1

1.4

1.5

1.3

1.2

32.3

34.7

36.0

37.1

35.6

24.0

23.5

22.8

23.2

22.1

Total GHG Emissions by Type 1
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Energy Efficiency Performance
Percentage improvement since 1992 baseline

Direct3	

Indirect3	

60.8	
63.0	
63.8	
65.4	
62.3	

—2.4	
—2.2	
—2.9	
—3.0	
—2.7	

Grid	
Credits3	

—0.9	
—1.2	
—0.5	
—0.9	
—0.7	

Net

57.4
59.6
60.4
61.5
58.8

2009	
2008	
2007	
2006	
2005	

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

1992

0

See page 11 for more information.

30

28

27

27

24

1   Chevron’s net decrease of approximately  

2.2 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions 
from 2008 to 2009 can be attributed to reduced 
flaring from Cabinda (Angola), and to Nigerian gas 
processing shutdowns, shut-in offshore wells and 
pipeline vandalism. Production decreases at U.S. 
Midcontinent and Alaska operations, as well as 
declining demand for products and shutdown of 
process units at the Richmond, California, refinery, 
also accounted for the emission reductions. 
Decreases were offset by increased emissions due  
to increased production at Tengiz, Kazakhstan, and 
in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (particularly resulting  
from Blind Faith and Tahiti fields’ coming onstream), 
and due to the increased throughput from the 
Pembroke, United Kingdom, refinery.

 Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported 
on an equity basis for all businesses in which 
Chevron has an interest except as noted below. 
The following entities are not currently included in 
the Chevron corporate greenhouse gas inventory: 
Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian Pipeline 
Consortium, Azerbaijan International Operating Co., 
the Chad/Cameroon pipeline joint venture, Caltex 
Australia Ltd.’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, and 
other refineries in which Chevron has an equity 
interest of 16 percent or less. These are entities 
over which Chevron does not have full operational 
control or which do not generally follow Chevron’s 
corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible 
protocol.

 Due to rounding, individual numbers may not sum 
to the total numbers.

2  Product emissions are calculated based on total 
2009 upstream liquids, gas and coal production. 
The emissions factors used are from the American 
Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions Estimations Methodologies for the  
Oil and Gas Industry, published in 2004.

3  Direct emissions come from sources within a facility. 
Indirect emissions come from electricity and steam 
Chevron imports, less the emissions credits from 
electricity and steam Chevron exports. Grid credits 
account for the electricity Chevron exports that is 
produced more efficiently than electricity from the 
regional or national grid.

9

	
	
	
	
	
 
 
Climate Change

The first two stages of the Escravos Gas 
Project (EGP) in Nigeria — EGP-1 and 
EGP-2 — were completed in 1997 and 2000, 
respectively. EGP-2 raised the company’s 
gas processing inlet capacity from 165 
mmcf/d to 285 mmcf/d. EGP-3, a follow-up 
to EGP-1 and EGP-2, is expected to begin 
operation in 2010. EGP-3 will process up to 
an additional 395 mmcf/d, part of which 
will be used as feedstock for the Escravos 
Gas-to-Liquids Project. 

The Escravos Gas-to-Liquids Project will 
upgrade approximately 325 mmcf/d of 
gas into almost 33,200 barrels per day of 
high-quality diesel, naphtha, and liquefied 
petroleum gas. Construction began in 2006, 
and first production is forecasted for 2012.

The West African Gas Pipeline, a 421-mile 
(678-km) high-pressure natural gas 
pipeline, constructed and operated by the 
West African Gas Pipeline Co., of which 
Chevron is the largest shareholder, has an 
initial capacity to transport 170 mmcf/d of 
natural gas from Nigeria’s Niger Delta to 
Ghana, Togo and Benin. The West African 
Gas Pipeline transports gas that would 
have been flared to now fill energy sup-
ply gaps in western Africa. This will help 
us reduce emissions because it allows 
access to markets and provides the ability 

to deliver gas to end users. The pipeline 
began transporting gas in 2008 and will be 
complete in 2010.

Manufacturing Our eight Chevron-
operated refineries created a formal 
network in 2009 to share best practices in 
flare reduction. The refineries are work-
ing to reduce flaring through flare gas 
recovery, source control, and maintenance 
practices and procedures, and they have 
shared their successes for several years. 
Chevron’s Pembroke, United Kingdom, 
refinery started using a sulfur oxide 
reduction catalyst in the cracking process 
after U.S.-based refineries found that the 
catalyst successfully reduced sulfur oxide. 
Other flare reduction techniques were 
found to improve energy efficiency and 
produce cost savings.

Reducing Emissions — 
Carbon Dioxide Injection
Chevron has several major natural gas 
investments off the western coast of 
Australia, including the Gorgon Project, 
which will include the world’s largest 
 commercial-scale GHG storage site. The 
Gorgon Project will position Australia as a 
leader in the application of GHG storage, 
with up to approximately 3.4 million metric 
tons a year of CO2 being injected and 

stored underground. Over the life of the 
project, it is anticipated that approximately 
120 million metric tons of GHG emissions 
will have been avoided because of the 
Gorgon CO2-injection project.

The proposed injection location will be 
on the northeast coast of Barrow Island 
near the gas processing plant. This site 
was selected to maximize the migration 
distance from major geologic faults and to 
limit environmental impacts. The injec-
tion wells will be directionally drilled from 
discrete surface locations to minimize the 
area of land required for the well sites, 
surface facilities, pipelines and access 
roads. Extensive monitoring, including 
well- pressure measurement and seismic 
surveys, will provide information required 
to update the reservoir models and predict 
the behavior of the injected CO2. The 
Gorgon Project is the first project to be 
regulated under legislation dedicated to 
GHG storage and is the world’s first large-
scale storage project to have been sub-
jected to an exhaustive, publicly available 
environmental impact assessment. Project 
construction has begun, and injection 
operations are anticipated to begin in 2014.

Chevron and its partners are committed to 
sharing data from the project to aid in the 

Office Facility Fitness
Six Principles of Sustainability

More than 100 Chevron office facilities are managed by the Chevron Business 
and Real Estate Services team, which is guided by its Six Principles of Sustainability. 
To learn more, please see the video at Chevron.com/ChevronEfficiency.

1

2

3

4

5

6

Improve 
Energy 
Efficiency

Optimize 
Water 
Consumption

Manage and 
Reduce Material 
Flows

Manage and Improve 
Indoor Environmental 
Quality

Involve 
Tenants in 
Sustainability

We improve our facili-
ties’ efficiency with the 
implementation of 
technology and operating 
procedures. Using the 
ENERGY STAR® program 
of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, our 
goal is to achieve top-
quartile energy efficiency 
within five years.

In addition to tracking 
our water use, we install 
water-saving fittings 
and fixtures. We also 
have a project to use 
local recycled water 
for cooling towers and 
for a large landscape-
irrigation system at our 
headquarters in San 
Ramon, California.

Our projects increasingly 
incorporate materials 
made from recycled 
or renewable content. 
We reuse our modular 
work spaces and furnish-
ings. We implemented 
recycling programs 
at various office sites 
worldwide to divert our 
landfill-bound waste.

Through guidance pro-
vided by the U.S. Green 
Building Council’s LEED 
program, we are iden-
tifying ways to improve 
our operations. Making 
use of natural light is 
one practice used at 
many of our sites.

We partner with 
Chevron employees 
to promote conserva-
tion. Ride-sharing and 
Lug-a-Mug programs 
(to use nondisposable 
cups) are examples of 
how employees con-
tribute to our success.

Continually Improve 
Our Sustainability 
Program

We continue to 
identify efficiencies, 
learn from best prac-
tices and implement 
improvements.

10

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Climate Engagement

Chevron proactively works with govern-
ment and nongovernment stakeholders to 
find solutions to climate regulatory issues. 
In the United States, we worked closely with 
the California Air Resources Board and the 
Western Regional Air Partnership (WRAP) —  
a collaborative group of state governments, 
tribal governments and various federal agen-
cies — to develop the first voluntary methods 
in the country for reporting GHG emissions 
from oil and gas production for use by the 
Climate Action Registry. Our goal is to find 
cost-effective ways to accurately measure 
and control emissions in order to establish an 
accurate inventory base for future emissions 
reduction programs. Chevron contributed by 
sharing our operating and technical experi-
ence with stakeholders through facility tours 

for government agency staff and participation 
in the WRAP Technical Working Group.

In California, we assisted in developing the 
first mandatory GHG reporting regulation 
in the United States and in generating an 
accurate statewide GHG emissions inven-
tory. Chevron continues to work with WRAP 
and the Western Climate Initiative, a group 
that includes several Western U.S. states 
and Canadian provinces, to develop the first 
U.S. mandatory emissions reporting meth-
odology designed specifically for onshore oil 
and gas production. By working collabora-
tively, we hope to contribute to a program 
design that achieves an effective balance 
between the need for accuracy and practical, 
safe execution.

development of future injection projects. 
For detailed information on the project, 
please visit ChevronAustralia.com and see 
the video at Chevron.com/GorgonVideo.

Chevron continues internal research and 
development and participates in global 
industry-led projects to reduce both the 
long-term risk of CO2 geologic storage and 
the cost of CO2 capture from emissions 
sources. Chevron also provides technical 
leadership to the industry-led CO2 Capture 
Project for field trials of surveillance 
equipment and capture demonstrations, 
the Petroleum Technology Research 
Centre’s Weyburn-Midale Project for 
CO2 storage from enhanced oil recovery 
operations, and the broad-based carbon 
capture and storage programs of the 
Australian Cooperative Research Centre 
for Greenhouse Gas Technologies.

Improving Efficiency
As of 2009, Chevron decreased the total 
energy the company needed to complete 
all its business functions by 30 percent 
compared with the energy the company 
would have used in 1992 to complete  
equivalent functions. The 2009 cost of 
energy to the company was approxi-
mately $4.7 billion. Total 2009 energy 
consumption for Chevron’s operated 
assets was approximately 916 trillion Btu. 
Fuel combustion is the leading source of 
GHG emissions from our operations, so 
increasing our overall energy efficiency 

signifies a corresponding decrease in 
 carbon emissions. 

Energy Efficiency Excellence In May 
2009, Southern California Gas Co. recog-
nized our El Segundo Refinery with the 
Project of the Year award as part of its 
Energy Efficiency Excellence Awards pro-
gram. Since 2006, when refineries became 
eligible to participate in the gas company’s 
efficiency programs, the El Segundo 
Refinery saved more than 9 million therms 
of natural gas, three times more than any 
other program participant.

Chevron’s El Segundo Refinery also par-
ticipates in Southern California Edison’s 
rebate and incentive programs. The refin-
ery received the largest incentive in 2008 
for its work associated with the Heavy 
Crude Project.

LEED Certifications Chevron completed 
its first LEED-certified green-building 
project at its facility in Louisiana in 2008. 
Developed by the U.S. Green Building 
Council, LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) is an internationally 
recognized certification system providing 
independent, third-party verification that 
a building or community was designed and 
built using strategies aimed at improv-
ing performance across sustainability 
metrics. In 2009, Chevron completed a 
LEED-certified green-building project in 
Anchorage, Alaska. That facility received 

LEED Silver certification. We are pursuing 
LEED certification for new construc-
tion and existing buildings at four other 
Chevron sites.

Philippines Commitment to Efficiency 
In January 2009, Chevron Geothermal 
Philippines Holdings, Inc., became the first 
multinational energy company to sign a 
pledge with the Philippines Department 
of Energy (DOE) to commit to energy 
efficiency. As part of the agreement, the 
DOE conducted an energy audit of the 
company’s Makati office and recommended 
changes in energy-consuming operating 
practices and equipment. Chevron imple-
mented changes and is using the audit as 
a baseline to monitor energy consumption 
and validate savings.

Pursuing Business Opportunities  
and Investing in Research,  
Development and Technology
We invest in research partnerships and 
demonstration projects to develop renew-
able energy, improve efficiency and reduce 
emissions. Chevron Energy Technology 
Co.’s (ETC) internal team of experts focuses 
on advanced energy technologies and on 
helping Chevron successfully compete in 
future energy markets. ETC’s projects in 
2009 included research and development 
of advanced lubricants from nonconven-
tional sources, solar technologies, waste 
heat and waste pressure to energy, energy 
storage and transmission, bioenergy, 
geothermal power, water treatment and 
reuse technologies, and carbon capture 
and storage.

Consistent with our Action Plan on 
Climate Change, we recognize the need 
to reduce GHG emissions where possible. 
Appropriately incorporating climate con-
siderations into business decision making 
is key to achieving this goal. To this end,  
we identify and incorporate into our busi-
ness planning anticipated financial and 
operational impacts of  carbon regulation.

For development and approval of major 
capital projects, we estimate a project’s 
incremental emissions profile, assess the 
financial impact of GHG regulations, and 
describe the emissions reduction options 
considered and implemented. We devel-
oped tools to identify, assess and rank 
emissions reduction methods; conduct 

11

Climate Change

in the United States and elsewhere. Please 
visit Chevron.com/7Principles.

The California Global Warming Solutions 
Act of 2006 (AB 32) is legislation 
outlining a plan to reduce GHG emissions. 
Under AB 32, companies are required to 
begin reporting their emissions in 2010. 
Chevron took early action, and in 2009, 
began voluntary external verification and 
reporting of our California emissions from 
2007 through 2009 at our Richmond, 
El Segundo, San Joaquin Valley and Global 
Power operations facilities.

Upgraded System to Track GHGs
During the fourth quarter of 2009, we 
began deploying the corporatewide 
Chevron GHG and Energy Reporting 
System (CGERS™), a state-of-the-art tool 
that replaced our existing system for 
tracking our global GHG emissions and 
energy use. The Web-based application 
incorporates industry best practices in 
GHG accounting and reporting, covering 
all six of the main GHGs and emissions 
from Chevron’s products and from direct 
and indirect emissions sources. CGERS™ 
also was developed to align with existing 
and emerging regulatory requirements 
by incorporating mandatory reporting 
methods with a high level of transparency 
and automation. The application helps 
us manage our GHG footprint by making 
our emissions data more accessible to 
key managers.

Carbon Disclosure Project’s 
Leadership Index Top Score 
In 2009, Chevron tied for the highest 
rating in the energy sector in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Leadership 
Index, which highlights the companies 
within the FTSE Global 500 Index that 
display the most professional approach 
to corporate governance in climate change 
disclosure practices. High scores indicate 
good internal data management and 
understanding of climate change–related 
issues affecting the company. Chevron 
has been in the Leadership Index four 
of the past five years. To be included, a 
company must score in the top 10 per-
cent of those that respond to the CDP 
questionnaire and make its disclosure 
publicly available on the CDP Web site, 
where Chevron’s response can be viewed 
at CDProject.net.

Geothermal Power

Certified Emission Reduction Projects Chevron’s 
110-megawatt Darajat Unit III geothermal power plant in 
West Java, Indonesia, reached an important milestone in 
2009 by earning the company’s first Clean Development 
Mechanism (CDM) Certified Emission Reductions (CERs). 
This United Nations–administered program is rigorous and 
requires detailed measurements and third-party verification 
to determine the quantity of emissions avoided. Darajat 
Unit III is one of only two CDM projects registered by a 
U.S.-based international oil company and is Chevron’s 
largest geothermal energy project to date. The project is 
expected to produce 650,000 CER  credits annually.

The Darajat 
project is 
expected to 
avoid

650,000

metric tons 
of CO2 emissions 
annually. 

economic analysis; and integrate GHG 
factors into decision making and overall 
project development and management.

For example, one tool helps identify and 
assess the viability of potential Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM) carbon 
emissions reduction projects. (The CDM is 
an agreement under the Kyoto Protocol 
that encourages investment in ventures to 
reduce emissions in developing countries.) 
Our new CDM tool offers a systematic 
approach to prioritizing opportunities and 
assessing the likelihood of their success.

In 2009, Chevron Energy Solutions 
completed what is believed to be the 
 largest solar and energy efficiency project 
for a public school district in the United 
States. The project, in San Jose, California, 
includes a total of 5.5 megawatts of solar 
power at 14 different sites and is expected 
to reduce the district’s energy costs by 

more than 30 percent — more than 
$25 million — over 25 years. The district 
was not asked to provide any capital 
investment, allowing it to retain its capital 
budget for other projects. We estimate that 
the project will result in decreased carbon 
emissions of approximately 100,000 metric 
tons, equivalent to planting more than 
1,400 acres (567 hectares) of trees.

Supporting Flexible and 
Economically Sound Policies
We believe that a successful climate policy 
will be one in which the reduction of GHGs 
is accomplished equitably by the top 
emitting countries of the world through 
long-term and coordinated national frame-
works. Our Seven Principles for Addressing 
Climate Change summarizes the funda-
mental aspects of achieving an economi-
cally viable carbon management program. 
These principles should be components of 
any carbon emissions reduction program 

12

Renewable Energy
Emerging Energy

Chevron is a world leader in developing and delivering energy from oil and 
natural gas, which will remain the world’s predominant sources of energy for 
decades to come. To meet the growing demand of developing economies, we 
will need every energy source available, including efficiency and renewables.

We believe that the skills honed over our 
130 years of experience to find, produce 
and deliver energy will one day lead to 
commercial-scale development of renew-
able resources. To reach this point, we are 
focusing on research and development of 
renewable energy technologies that are 
scalable, sustainable and profitable.

Chevron is taking a pragmatic approach to 
renewable energy — pursuing and focusing 
on those technologies that leverage our 
core competencies, assets or competitive 
advantage. These include geothermal, 
advanced biofuels, solar, and energy effi-
ciency technologies. We conduct internal 
research and collaborate with governments, 
businesses and academia in researching 
and developing alternative and renewable 
energy sources. Through these partner-
ships, we share information and are helping 
advance technology as we look at providing 
renewable energy for future generations.

Geothermal Energy
Chevron is the largest producer of geo-
thermal energy in the world, supplying 
1,273 megawatts of installed electricity-

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Research Partnership

generating capacity in Indonesia and the 
Philippines. Our facilities provide enough 
energy to meet the needs of 16 million 
people in these countries. Technologies 
and processes used in geothermal produc-
tion have much in common with those for 
oil and gas. Chevron leverages its experi-
ence in reservoir characterization and 
drilling safely and efficiently to produce 
this renewable resource.

Energy Efficiency Business
We believe the most immediate and cost-
effective new sources of energy come from 
conservation and energy efficiency. Our 
subsidiary Chevron Energy Solutions Co. 
(CES) is dedicated to helping its clients and 
our own company become more energy 
efficient and reduce emissions through 
facility upgrades and the incorporation of 
renewable and alternative energy sources. 
Chevron is the only one of our peer group 
of companies that has made a viable busi-
ness out of energy efficiency.

California at Davis. The person appointed 
will direct the world’s first university center 
of excellence in energy efficiency.

In 2009, Chevron Energy Solutions  
completed a 100-kilowatt solar photovol-
taic system for the U.S. state of Colorado 
at its Department of Revenue building 
and a 10-kilowatt solar system at the 
State Capitol building. The installations 
were part of a CES-managed $20 million, 
six-year energy upgrade of more than 20 
buildings and included energy-efficient 
lighting, heating, ventilation and air con-
ditioning; energy management systems; 
water conservation; and ground-source 
heating and cooling at the governor’s resi-
dence. The comprehensive project, which 
resulted in the U.S. Green Building Council’s 
LEED certification of five buildings, is 
expected to reduce energy costs by more 
than 25 percent and reduce CO2 emissions 
by more than 7,600 metric tons per year, 
equivalent to removing nearly 1,500 cars 
from the road.

In 2009, we reinforced our commitment to 
efficiency by endowing the Chevron Chair 
in Energy Efficiency at the University of 

CES also completed in 2009 the nation’s 
largest energy efficiency and solar 

Exploring the potential benefits associated 
with any emerging energy source can be 
encouraging. But the path to commercializing 
new energy sources presents many chal-
lenges. The best way to solve these challenges 
is through collaboration. Chevron’s strategy 
for biofuels development is to collaborate 
with the best talent at other companies, 
universities and government laboratories — 
to combine their knowledge of biomass with 
Chevron’s expertise in making high-quality 
transportation fuels. Partnerships include 
Catchlight Energy LLC, our joint venture with 
Weyerhaeuser Co., and collaborations with the 
U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, 
Georgia Institute of Technology, University 
of California at Davis, Texas A&M University, 
and the Colorado Center for Biorefining 
and Biofuels.

In developing advanced biofuels, successful 
feedstocks need to be scalable, sustainable 
and economically viable. They must have 
optimal physical and chemical properties 
and be able to thrive on marginal land that 
would not otherwise be used for food. Over 
the past few years, Chevron acquired a 
tremendous amount of knowledge about 
biomass and narrowed its list of potential 
biofuel feedstocks from more than 100 to 
fewer than 10.

Left: Michelle Long, manager of feedstock 
 supply for the Biofuels business unit of 
Chevron Technology Ventures, inspects a  
field of castor at College Station, Texas. Castor 
produces seeds that are not used for food.  
The seeds are crushed to release an oil that 
could be converted to transportation fuel.

13

Renewable Energy

Tracking the Sun

At Chevron headquarters in San Ramon, 
California, we are testing a group of 
advanced solar technologies. The proj-
ect is part of a collaboration between 
Chevron Energy Solutions Co., Chevron 
Technology Ventures, and Chevron 
Business and Real Estate Services 
(CBRES). The four different technolo-
gies employed will all operate under 
the same weather conditions and solar 
intensity to provide easily comparable 

data that will be evaluated and  considered 
for future energy efficiency projects at 
other Chevron sites. Intended for data 
collection only, the small demonstration is 
large enough to power about four average-
sized households. The project is part of 
the CBRES sustainability initiative in which 
Chevron looks for opportunities to improve 
energy efficiency, optimize water consump-
tion, manage material flows and improve 
indoor environmental quality within its own 

facilities. To see the video, please visit 
Chevron.com/ChevronEfficiency.

Above: Dane Zehrung, CBRES sustain-
ability strategy advisor, inspects the last 
of four types of panels installed. These 
panels are an example of concentrating 
photovoltaic technology. They use lenses 
to focus the sun’s energy and pivot to 
track the sun, maximizing the amount 
of energy captured.

electric system at a transit facility, for 
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan 
Transportation Authority (Metro). The 
6,720 solar panels at Metro’s central 
maintenance facility for buses are designed 
to produce 1.2 megawatts of renewable 
energy. Along with other energy-efficient 
improvements, the project is expected to 
cut the facility’s annual $1.1 million energy 
bill in half and reduce its purchase of util-
ity power, which is anticipated to reduce 
carbon emissions by more than 3,700 met-
ric tons.

Advanced Solar Technologies
In 2010, Chevron Technology Ventures 
(CTV) plans to have completed what 
may be the largest concentrating solar 
photovoltaic power plant in the United 

States. The demonstration plant, located 
at Chevron Mining Inc.’s Questa Mine in 
the state of New Mexico, will use lenses to 
focus sunlight onto three-layer solar cells. 
The technology is anticipated to be twice 
as efficient as traditional solar panels.

In a project in Coalinga, California, 
Chevron is researching solar technolo-
gies that may help increase production 
without increasing the carbon footprint. 
CTV is constructing a demonstration 
solar thermal plant to generate steam for 
injection into wells to heat the petroleum 
and enable flow. More than 7,000 mirrors 
will direct the sun’s energy onto a large 
steel vessel of water to generate steam. 
The demonstration will help determine 
whether solar thermal technology is 

viable for deploying in commercial-scale 
projects at other Chevron facilities. CTV 
contracted with BrightSource Energy, Inc., 
a company Chevron has invested in since 
January 2007. This will be BrightSource’s 
largest engineering, procurement and 
construction project to date, allowing 
BrightSource to explore nontraditional 
applications of solar technology for the 
oil and gas industry.

Biofuels
Biofuels are one of Chevron’s renew-
able energy focus areas. We believe that 
biofuels that complement conventional 
transportation fuels will play an increasing 
role in meeting the world’s growing energy 
needs and will present a business oppor-
tunity. Our interest lies in fuels made from 

14

Energy, Technology and the Environment Team Up

are alternatives that may help us make 
even better use of some properties under-
going remediation,” said Leslie Klinchuch, 
with CEMC.

The team focused on four available sites 
in California, each conducive to solar 
technology deployment. They decided on 
the Bakersfield location because it is close 
to the Chevron-operated Kern River Field, 
which could absorb the energy produced. 
The location also allowed for easy con-
nection to the grid. Finally, the site was 
large enough to accommodate sizable 
installations of the different technolo-
gies. The project is expected to generate 
an initial peak output of approximately 
740 kilowatts, but it is designed for poten-
tial expansion over time.

“We wanted to learn as much as possible 
about each of these technologies in a short 
time, including ease and cost of installa-
tion as well as side-by-side comparison of 
their performance and reliability,” said CTV 
project manager Adam Williams.

Selecting from 180 solar technology suppli-
ers, which include many startups, required 
the development of extensive industry 

knowledge and a detailed screening 
process. The team met with 40 different 
suppliers, toured 20 facilities and eventu-
ally settled on eight technologies that 
could have the potential for a strategic 
fit for Chevron and CES clients.

“The solar industry has seen such phe-
nomenal growth over the past five years. 
There are a lot of new entrants compet-
ing to bring their technologies to market. 
We had to find the most promising tech-
nologies and viable suppliers,” said CES 
project manager Raphael Varieras.

The suppliers will benefit by demonstrat-
ing their pre-commercial technologies 
and gathering data. Chevron will be able 
to compare the technologies and evalu-
ate whether any of them have potential 
for use at other Chevron sites and for 
sites of CES’ external clients. Please see 
the video at Chevron.com/Brightfield.

Above: Collaborating on the Brightfield 
project are project managers from sev-
eral Chevron businesses, (from left) Leslie 
Klinchuch, CEMC; Adam Williams, CTV; 
Raphael Varieras, CES; and Jerry Lomax, 
vice president of Emerging Energy.

Building and operating a large-scale 
solar plant on a remediation site 
entails a combination of expertise. 
That expertise was found in the col-
laboration of three Chevron companies: 
Chevron Technology Ventures (CTV), 
Chevron Environmental Management 
Co. (CEMC) and Chevron Energy 
Solutions Co. (CES). In developing and 
installing the Brightfield solar project 
in Bakersfield, California, the team 
chose the site to demonstrate benefi-
cial reuse and selected a small group 
of next-generation solar technologies, 
among hundreds.

“We want more information about the 
opportunities and challenges associ-
ated with renewable energy facilities 
so that we can determine whether they 

feedstocks that do not materially affect 
food or feed supplies.

The biofuels business shares many of the 
characteristics with Chevron’s traditional 
petroleum business in that it involves using 
advanced engineering and manufacturing 
to convert raw materials into high-quality 
transportation fuels. Because of this, 
Chevron is well positioned to make signifi-
cant contributions to this evolving industry. 
However, there are significant challenges 
to building an advanced biofuels industry 
that is scalable, environmentally sustain-
able and economic. Chevron believes that 
these challenges can be overcome and is 
working and investing to do so through 
both internal research and development 
and collaboration with industrial partners, 

national laboratories and universities. In 
2009, we completed equity investments 
and research agreements with industrial 
biotechnology companies, some of which 
have the potential for Chevron to acquire 
feedstocks and license rights to conversion 
technologies.

Catchlight In 2008, Chevron and 
Weyerhaeuser Co., one of the world’s 
largest forest-products companies, formed 
Catchlight Energy LLC, a 50-50 joint-
venture company focused on developing 
next-generation renewable transportation 
fuels from forest-based sources. In 2009, 
Catchlight continued research and develop-
ment on conversion technologies while 
working to validate the sustainability and 
scalability of its biomass supplies.

Hydrogen
In December 2009, we concluded a five-
year study with the U.S. Department of 
Energy in which we operated demonstra-
tion hydrogen fueling stations. Through 
our participation, we demonstrated that 
the technologies tested could be operated 
safely. But several barriers to wide hydro-
gen deployment as a transportation fuel 
remain, including cost and energy density. 
To deliver the same amount of energy 
would require hydrogen storage and 
fueling facilities two to four times larger 
than comparable gasoline stations. It will 
take years, possibly decades, to develop 
the production, storage and distribution 
technologies needed to make hydrogen 
commercially available to retail users in 
a wide geographic area.

15

Environmental Management
Environmentally Sound Development

Chevron develops energy with a commitment to protecting the environment. 
Our workforce embodies this commitment by developing new projects in an 
environmentally sound manner and continually improving the environmental 
performance of existing operations.

Our environmental stewardship is man-
aged through our Operational Excellence 
Management System, which has processes 
that examine life-cycle impacts, from 
initial assessments to site closure and 
transfer. Together, these processes sys-
tematically drive improvements in safety, 
health, the environment, reliability and 
efficiency.

Impact Assessment
Chevron performs a risk-based Envi-
ronmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment (ESHIA) on all major capital 
projects to identify potentially significant 
project-related impacts. These include 

impacts to surrounding communities, 
natural resources, biodiversity, air qual-
ity, land use, waste management, noise 
and public health. ESHIA also identifies 
opportunities for avoiding, reducing and 
mitigating potentially negative impacts 
and for enhancing project benefits. 
The process is iterative and requires 
engagement with and input from key 
stakeholders through the project’s life 
cycle. Since its inception, the ESHIA 
process has been applied to more than 
690 capital projects worldwide.

In one such project in northern Colombia, 
Chevron extension facilities for gas 

 pro duction were planned to be situated 
in Wayúu territory. The Wayúu tribe is the 
largest Colombian indigenous group, with 
nearly 120,000 non-Spanish-speaking 
people. As part of Chevron’s ESHIA proc-
ess, the project team learned that the 
proposed site was near the community’s 
water reserves and pathways used to 
reach the ocean.

By changing site plans, the company 
received the required environmental 
permits on schedule and established the 
foundation for a constructive relationship 
with all the stakeholders. To strengthen 
this relationship, the company invited 

16

Beneficial Reuse: Renewables

In conducting remediation at the 
Casper, Wyoming, site of a Texaco 
refinery decommissioned in 1982, 
Chevron wanted to find a sustainable, 
beneficial reuse of the land — and the 
company knew that wind energy was 
a resource with high potential in that 
part of the state. Chevron engaged the 
community through town hall meet-
ings and ongoing dialogue and worked 
closely with state and local government 
in developing the plan. The company’s 
engagement with the community 
and careful study of the ecological, 
meteorological and environmental data 
were important components in gaining 
approvals throughout the permitting 
process. With the property once again 
generating energy and back into com-
mercial use, the project is able to help 
the county by expanding the local tax 
base, which can increase the funds 
available for schools, roads and other 
public needs.

Construction began on Chevron’s  
first wholly owned commercial 
wind project in June 2009 and was 
completed in December 2009. The 
1,400-acre (567-hectare) property 
hosts an 880-acre (356-hectare), 
11-turbine wind farm. The farm’s 
energy output of 16.5 megawatts, 
enough renewable energy to power 
approximately 4,400 homes, is sold  
to a local utility company for distri-
bution to customers. The wind farm 
operates on the northernmost part  
of the property, and remediation at 
the site continues. 

Left photo: Surveying the site of  
a former Texaco refinery that now 
hosts a wind farm are Chevron  
Global Power Co. employees Chris 
Buchholz, construction and opera-
tions manager, and Kara Cox, project 
engineer.

Wayúu leaders to visit operations and talk 
about their culture and concerns. The 
visit created a common understanding of 
how the company would operate on the 
Wayúu’s land.

The tribe’s main economic activity is 
 fishing. Chevron and the community 
worked with a local civic organization to 
develop a long-term program to protect  
the environment and improve the fisher-
men’s safety, quality of life and income.

Operating With Excellence
Chevron’s Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS) meets  

all the requirements of both the 
International Organization for 
Standardization’s environmental man-
agement systems standard (ISO 14001) 
and the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series requirements for 
 occupational health and safety man-
agement systems (OHSAS 18001), 
which is attested to by Lloyd’s Register 
Quality Assurance, Inc. More than 
1,800 employees completed OE train-
ing and certification in 2009, bringing  
the year-end total to 13,500. Also by  
year-end, 19,300 employees had com-
pleted the OE Leadership Roles and  
Behaviors session.

OEMS is complemented by Environmental 
Performance Standards in our explora-
tion and production organization. These 
standards set requirements and processes 
for many environmental aspects, includ-
ing flaring, waste management, produced 
water and drilling discharge.

We increased our focus on spill minimiza-
tion, efforts that resulted in 2009 volumes 
returning to 2007 levels. In the process, 
major spill incidents (of 100 barrels or 
more) declined 41 percent from the number 
of spills in 2008.

From 1991 to 2008, our Pascagoula 
Refinery implemented a hazardous- 
waste reduction program that combines 
waste elimination and recycling. During  
a period when refinery output rose,  
overall waste generation decreased by 
39 percent — or almost 1,174 metric tons — 
with a 99 percent reduction in spent  
caustic waste and a significant reduction 
in oily sludge, which is now recycled. Other 
efforts at the refinery reduced laboratory 
solvent hazardous waste by 61 percent. 
Approximately 600 million metric tons 
of cooling water are recirculated each 
year. Per year, water treatment recovers 
1.4 million barrels of oil; 12,000 metric tons 
of ammonia; and 275,000 metric tons of 
sulfur, which is used for fertilizer.

In 2009, we began reporting a total 
waste metric to track the amount of total 
hazardous and nonhazardous waste that 
is recycled (which includes reused and 
recovered) from our operations. In our 
first year of reporting, total recycling was 
67 percent of generated hazardous waste 
and 45 percent of generated nonhazardous 
waste. Starting in 2009, we began to track 
chemical oxygen demand and total ammo-
nia nitrogen discharges from our refineries. 

Water
Access to fresh water is vital to communi-
ties and, in some areas where we operate, 
is in limited supply. In 2009, we began to 
roll out guidance for reporting total water 
use, which we will deploy corporatewide in 
2010. This can help the company identify 
areas of potential supply risk, which we 
plan to address through water conserva-
tion, reuse and other efficiency methods. 
Several water conservation projects are 
already under way.

17

 
 
Global Emissions to Air 1, 2, 3
Metric tons

  Upstream 

  Downstream 

  Other

Petroleum Spills 4, 5
Volume in barrels

Petroleum Spills 5
Number of spills

   Spills to land 
and water 

  Volume 

recovered 

  Secondary 
  containment

VOCs

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

SOx

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

NOx

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

142,052

125,036

91,644

118,210

118,874

122,911

134,785

144,676

138,104

121,916

265,819

221,734

260,640

383,914

468,703

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

9,368

7,512

17,492

14,399

9,245

6,920

6,099

3,923

11,202

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

798

760

826

803

846

47,934

5  All spills to water are included. Spills to land and 

secondary containment that are greater than or equal 
to one barrel are included. 

4  Secondary containment volume — which is not 

released to the environment — is included in the total 
volume listed at the end of each bar. Approximately 
14 percent, or 1,289 barrels, of the total volume was 
spilled to secondary containment in 2009.

Global Emissions to Air by Sector 1, 2, 3
Metric tons

Average Oil Concentration  
in Discharges to Water 6
Parts per million

Fines and Settlements7
Environmental, Health and Safety  
Fines and Settlements 

Upstream  Downstream 

Other

  Upstream 

  Manufacturing and Chemicals

VOCs	

SOx	

NOx	

2009	

2008	

2007	

2006	

2005	

2009	

2008	

2007	

2006	

2005	

2009	

2008	

2007	
2006	

2005	

225,949	

201,209	

240,716	

357,727	

445,049	

125,520	

97,731	

63,223	

82,922	

87,455	

110,068	

95,717	

121,378	
113,001	

97,829	

39,630	

18,648	

18,788	

26,100	

23,442	

15,997	

18,496	

20,451	

25,574	

23,986	

240

1,878

1,136

87

212

536

8,810

7,970

9,714

7,433

12,133	

711

12,282	

26,785

14,041	
16,020	

15,837	

9,257
9,083

8,250

11.28

12.94

15.64

2009

2008

2007

2006

3.87

3.73

3.70

4.51

32.03

6  Global Upstream average oil concentration in 

discharges to water decreased in 2009, mainly due  
to additional well-injection capacity, which allowed the 
Partitioned Zone business unit to cease discharging 
produced water as of June 2009. Manufacturing and 
Chemicals average oil concentration in discharges 
to water increased, mainly due to a process upset 
and wastewater-treatment maintenance issues at 
our Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery. A new effluent 
treatment plant at Pascagoula came fully on line in 
November 2009.

YEAR 

Total  
number 

04 

05 

06 

07 

08 

09

469 

577  699  684  564  460

7  We reduced the number of incidents resulting in fines 
and settlements for alleged violations of environmen-
tal, health or safety regulations to 460 in 2009 from 
564 in 2008. Environmental fines and settlements 
were $5.9 million in 2009 and accounted for 0.17 per-
cent of our total environmental expenditures. Total 
environmental expenditures were $3.5 billion, of which 
capital expenditures were $1.7 billion and noncapital 
expenditures were $1.8 billion. Health and safety fines 
and settlements accounted for approximately 8 per-
cent of the total fines and settlements, representing 
$0.5 million.

1   We improve our methodology and scope for reporting 
global emissions to air annually, making year-to-year 
comparisons difficult. Our focus is to continually 
improve our reporting practices.

2  Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) derive primarily 
from fugitive emissions from equipment (such as 
valves, pumps and compressors), flaring and venting, 
and flashing gas. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur 
oxides (SOx) occur during combustion.

3  During 2009, improvements in estimation methodolo-
gies in several reporting units resulted in variances in 
reported emissions compared with 2008.

 Global VOC emissions were higher than in 2008 
primarily due to the Nigeria/Mid-Africa business unit’s 

improved estimation of vented gas volumes, the 
Eurasia business unit’s replacement of default emis-
sions factors with locally specified data, and Global 
Marketing’s estimation of storage tank and loading 
emissions for the first time. This gain was partially 
offset by reductions due to improved reporting by the 
Asia South business unit and decreased production 
in Alaska, United States. 

 Global SOx emissions were higher than in 2008, 
mainly due to the Eurasia business unit’s improved 
reporting and to the Partitioned Zone (between Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait) business unit’s increased sour gas 
production and improved reporting of gas production 
and flaring. 

 Global NOx emissions were lower than in 2008, mainly 
due to improved reporting by the IndoAsia business 
unit and the completion in 2008 of a drilling program 
at Indonesia geothermal and power operations. 

 U.S. Refining (Manufacturing) data on emissions to air 
are no longer additionally reported separately, as this 
report is enterprisewide and global in nature. 

 Global Gas, previously reported as “other,” was 
included with Upstream in 2009. “Other” includes 
Chemicals, Chevron Business and Real Estate 
Services, Chevron Mining Inc., Chevron Environmental 
Management Co., and Corporate Aviation. 

 Due to rounding, individual numbers may not sum to 
the total numbers.

18

 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Management

thailand

In our plan to construct a new 
facility to support our offshore oper-
ations in Thailand, we are applying 
our Environmental, Social and 
Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) 
process to assess environmental 
and social factors in the area. 
Information gathered from these 
environmental baseline studies 
and through community meetings 
will shape project design. Here, the 
team samples plankton in seawater.

Testing the Waters

Our ESHIA process is required for 
all Chevron-operated major capital 
projects. The process includes 
screening for potentially significant 
impacts early in the project design 
phase, followed by scoping, impact 
assessment and mitigation plans 
if necessary. Smaller Chevron-
operated projects are prescreened, 
and ESHIA is applied where needed. 
More than 690 major capital proj-
ects now apply ESHIA.

19

Environmental Management

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Partners in Seismic Research

Energy companies have been using seis-
mic imaging for approximately 80 years. 
In seismic imaging, sound waves bounce 
off underground rock structures to reveal 
possible oil- and gas-bearing formations. 
Seismologists use ultrasensitive micro-
phones to record the sound waves’ echoes 
reflecting on the structures within the 
earth. By studying the echoes, petroleum 
geologists seek to calculate the depth and 
outlines of underground formations. This 
analysis may help them identify hidden  
oil- and gas-bearing reservoirs.

Chevron is participating with a number of 
oil and gas companies and the International 
Association of Geophysical Contractors, 

through the International Association of  
Oil & Gas Producers, to fund research stud-
ies under the Joint Industry Programme on 
Sound and Marine Life. The primary scope 
of the program’s research, conducted by 
independent researchers and contractors, 
is to gain additional understanding of the 
potential effects of sound from the oil and 
gas industry’s offshore exploration and 
production activities and how the potential 
effects may be mitigated.

of the potential effects of sound on tissues 
and animal behavior.

Additional information about the poten-
tial effects of sound exposure can support 
oil and gas project planning and inform 
the scientific community and regulators 
about potential environmental effects. 
This information may also assist in mak-
ing science-based decisions and promoting 
permitting efficiencies.

Project results and progress in technology 
development, especially tools that detect 
marine animals in the water column and  
that better describe sound from industry 
sources, have advanced our understanding  

Above: In the Hjørundfjord, western Norway, 
tests are conducted to characterize the ampli-
tude and frequency range of sound energies 
from air guns that are used in seismic surveys. 
The tests measure the sound up to 50 kHz.

Chevron’s El Segundo Refinery is the  
largest single user of reclaimed water  
in California. Approximately 80 percent  
of the 275 million gallons of water used 
each month in process applications is 
 recycled water from the West Basin 
Municipal Water District’s treatment 
plant. To enable the refinery to use this 
water, Chevron invested $35 million 
and partnered with the water district to 
build denitrification and reverse osmosis 
treatment facilities to obtain the quality 
required for reuse in the refinery.

At present, Chevron’s Richmond Refinery 
uses 4 million gallons of reclaimed water 
every day for cooling towers, landscaping 
and controlling dust. The refinery provided 
a site on which the East Bay Municipal 
Utility District is building an advanced 
reclaimed-water treatment facility. This 

new facility will use leading-edge water 
treatment technologies, including micro-
filtration and reverse osmosis, to produce 
recycled water of a quality that exceeds  
the stringent unrestricted-use require-
ments set by California’s Department of 
Health. When completed in early 2010,  
this facility will allow Chevron to double  
the amount of reclaimed water used  
in the refinery and improve the quality of 
the boiler feed water used to make steam. 
Every gallon of reclaimed water used in 
the refinery saves an equivalent amount 
of fresh drinking water for California 
homes and businesses.

In the Partitioned Zone between Saudi 
Arabia and Kuwait, Chevron is using 
produced water for steamflood operations 
in a large-scale pilot project. Poor-quality 
produced water from the Eocene Field is 

processed to generate high-purity water 
that is made into steam and injected into 
the reservoir. To prepare for this $340 mil-
lion pilot project, 40 Saudi and Kuwaiti 
nationals spent 18 months at our San 
Joaquin production fields in Bakersfield, 
California, learning about steamflood 
technology. These employees are now 
supervisors, technicians and operators 
of the project in the Partitioned Zone.

Site Closure and Remediation
Chevron has been operating oil and gas 
facilities for more than a century, and in 
that time, best practices and technologies 
have evolved to better protect people and 
the environment. Some of our older sites 
have legacy environmental contamination 
that we are either presently remediat-
ing or have plans to address. Chevron 
Environmental Management Co. (CEMC) 

20

manages most of the company’s portfolio 
of environmental remediation, abandon-
ment and decommissioning projects to 
develop the best end-of-life solutions for 
assets and to prioritize the timing appro-
priately. In 2009, CEMC spent more than 
$700 million to address these issues.

Since 2008, CEMC has been restoring a 
segment of the Illinois and Michigan Canal 
adjacent to a former Texaco refinery in 
Lockport, Illinois. The canal was built in  
the mid-1800s to provide a shipping route 
from the Great Lakes to the Mississippi 
River. The canal runs approximately 100 
miles (161 km) and runs through the former 
refinery for about two miles (3.2 km). 
Closed for commercial navigation in 1933, 
the canal was designated a U.S. federal 
National Heritage Corridor in 1984. CEMC 
began activities in August 2008, clean-
ing two miles of the canal adjacent to the 

Product  
Stewardship

Product stewardship is an integral 
part of Chevron’s policy to protect 
people and the environment. It 
involves identifying, assessing and 
managing potential environmental, 
health, safety and integrity risks 
throughout a product’s life cycle — 
from conception to consumption, 
recycling or disposal.

In 2009, we continued implementing 
our standardized product stew-
ardship process in all our global 
Downstream business units. And we 
extensively assess existing and new 
products and activities.

Our product integrity process, a  
key component of product stew-
ardship, helps us manage risks to 
quality as our products move from 
the point of manufacture to the final 
customer. Onsite facility inspections 
at refineries and terminals help 
ensure that the necessary hardware, 
procedures, training and testing 
are in place. In 2008 and 2009, 
we conducted assessments at all 
Chevron refineries.

former refinery. The sediment removal 
was completed in November 2009. 
Overall, more than 90,000 cubic yards 
(69,000 cu m) of sediment were removed 
from the canal, and more than 12,000 feet 
(3,700 m) of canal bed and walls were 
cleaned. CEMC received positive responses 
from the community on this project, includ-
ing direct feedback from residents.

Biodiversity
Chevron adopted a Biodiversity State-
ment in 2007 and requires a biodiversity 
assessment as part of its ESHIA process 
for major capital projects. Our Health, 
Environment and Safety staff work to 
protect habitats near our operations and 
share their best practices through the 
Chevron Biodiversity Network. To read 
our Biodiversity Statement, please visit 
Chevron.com/Biodiversity.

Chevron Upstream Europe has had a  
close relationship with the Royal Society 
for the Protection of Birds in Scotland 
for 10 years. Over that time, we contrib-
uted more than $190,000 to projects in 
Scotland, which include habitat creation 
and restoration for species with declin-
ing populations, a field teaching position 
in Shetland, new wildlife-identification 
displays, and the installation of cameras 
that beam live images of endangered hen 
harrier chicks in their nests to viewers at 
a visitor center. One habitat management 
project, ongoing since 1999, aims to help 
safeguard an array of bird species on the 
Cromarty Firth, where Chevron has an 
operational presence. This project is par-
ticularly important as the Cromarty Firth  
lies on the “European flyway,” a major 
migratory route for several species.

Environmental Education
In December 2009, Chevron announced 
that it would donate more than $1.5 million 
to the Environment Ministry of Angola over 
the next two years to aid the country’s 
environmental management program. 
The funds will help in various ways. Along 
with supporting education, the funds will 
help train ministry staff in techniques for 
analyzing and tracking indicators, such as 
noise and greenhouse gas emissions.

Emergency Preparedness and Response
Chevron has a long history of providing a 
range of disaster support, such as helping 

Wheatstone

Approximately 62 miles (100 km) 
from Barrow Island, offshore Western 
Australia, lies Wheatstone, a Chevron-
operated gas field discovered in 2004. 
Gas from Wheatstone is expected to 
be transported to liquefied natural 
gas facilities based near Onslow, on 
the west coast of Australia’s Pilbara 
region. Chevron is undertaking a com-
prehensive Environmental, Social and 
Health Impact Assessment to identify 
potential impacts.

Below: Ann Hayes (right), a member 
of the local indigenous Thalanyji 
group, assists Chevron contract 
botanist Jerome Bull, from Onshore 
Environmental Consultants, during 
a botanical survey of the preferred 
Wheatstone facility site.

employees cope with disasters, providing 
humanitarian relief, planning for busi-
ness continuity and maintaining product 
supplies for use after a disaster. In 2009, 
Chevron responded to an earthquake in 
Sumatra, typhoons in the Philippines and a 
volcano in the U.S. state of Alaska.

In 2009, Chevron business units conducted 
oil spill response exercises in Thailand; 
Vancouver, Canada; and the U.S. state of 
Hawaii. The Thailand drill aimed to enhance 
the capability of multiple operating groups 
to integrate their resources in the event 
of a large oil spill. The exercise included 
more than 150 participants from Chevron, 
government agencies, and spill response 
service providers.

21

Environmental Management

Petroecuador, which has been the sole 
owner and operator of the oil fields for the 
past two decades, as it failed to remediate 
its share of the consortium fields, fails to 
maintain its facilities, and has a long and 
well-known record of oil spills and environ-
mental neglect.

There are serious questions about the 
conduct of the trial and the legitimacy  
of the plaintiffs’ evidence, which Chevron 
will continue to challenge. Among other 
issues, evidence shows that Richard 
Cabrera, a court-appointed engineer who 
delivered the damages assessment against 
Chevron, has a serious conflict of inter-
est. Cabrera is a founder of, and holds the 
largest ownership position in, a remedia-
tion company that is approved to work for 
Petroecuador and stands to profit from 
any judgment against Chevron. Despite 
his obligation to do so, Cabrera failed 
to disclose these interests to the court. 
Chevron provided this information to the 
court in support of the company’s renewed 
request that the court strike Cabrera’s 
grossly exaggerated and unsupportable 
damages assessment. 

In addition, in August 2009, Chevron 
presented to Ecuador and U.S. officials 
evidence, including audiovisual record-
ings, of a $3 million bribery scheme 
involving government officials and the 
judge presiding over the lawsuit, and 
revealing that the judge had prejudged the 
case. In February 2010, the report submit-
ted by an independent expert retained by 
Ecuador’s Judicial Council confirmed that 
the audiovisual recordings that Chevron 
presented were authentic and unaltered 
and contained the voices of the individu-
als identified by Chevron as participants 
in the scheme. While the judge in question 
is no longer presiding over the case, his 
past rulings have yet to be rectified, and 
his actions have not been sanctioned. The 
Ecuador judiciary’s failure to act on this 
matter and the Ecuador government’s 
continued interference in the case cast 
further doubt over the legitimacy of the 
trial and the government’s commitment 
to the rule of law.

Chevron maintains a comprehensive Web 
site — in both English and Spanish — on this 
matter: Chevron.com/Ecuador.

Harboring Hatchlings

In Angola, Chevron has operations  
in Cabinda and is the majority share-
holder in Angola LNG Ltd. in Soyo, 
northern Angola. Both operations 
are working to research, monitor and 
protect endangered marine turtles — 
including the olive ridley, green and 
leatherback — and their nesting 
rookeries.

Since 2006, the Angola LNG Project and  
the Wildlife Conservation Society have 
collaborated to create Project Sereia,  
a program that works closely with local 
fishing communities on the 12.5-mile 
(20-km) Sereia peninsula to teach them 
the benefit of conserving turtle popula-
tions and, in the future, help fishermen 
and their families identify ecologically 
sustainable alternatives to poaching 
turtles and their eggs. The 2007–2008 
ratio of one turtle alive to every eight 
dead improved in 2008–2009 to 1-to-1. 

Project Sereia noted that not one turtle 
has been poached by the local villages 
this season (2009–2010).

Chevron subsidiary Cabinda Gulf Oil 
Co. Ltd. protects the endangered sea 
turtles and their nesting beaches on 
the 1.9-mile (3-km) stretch of beach 
north of the Congo River, near the 
Malongo operations base in Cabinda. 
Annually from late September to mid-
March, during nesting season, Chevron 
scientists locate nests, tag the turtles, 
and evaluate hatch success. Members 
of Cabinda’s fishing community and 
Chevron environmental engineers 
together protect the nests. Since 
2002, they have observed more than 
900 nests and 16,000 hatchlings.

Above, from left: An olive ridley hatch-
ling near Malongo; a bale of olive ridley 
hatchlings near Soyo.

Ecuador Litigation Update
As previously reported, Chevron is the 
defendant in a longstanding lawsuit 
alleging environmental contamination asso-
ciated with its subsidiary Texaco Petroleum 
Co.’s (Texpet) past operations in the 
Oriente region of Ecuador. The suit is now 
before a local court in Ecuador. Chevron 
recognizes the serious challenges faced by 
the people of the Oriente region but rejects 
the plaintiffs’ contentions that Chevron is 
responsible for addressing their current 
socioeconomic and environmental issues 

while they do not acknowledge the Ecuador 
government’s failure to provide neces-
sary infrastructure. Independently verified 
scientific evidence presented to the court 
has shown that the remediation Texpet 
carried out was effective and complied 
with the legal and technical requirements 
established under agreements with the 
Republic of Ecuador and its state-owned 
oil company, Petroecuador, as well as with 
internationally accepted standards at the 
time. Moreover, full responsibility for the 
existing environmental problems lies with 

22

Executive Interview
Communities and Business Succeeding Together

George L. Kirkland 

Vice Chairman 
Chevron Corporation

Left: Chevron’s partnership with the Pediatric Hospital in Luanda, Angola, dates  
back to 1989. Since then, Chevron subsidiary Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd. and its Block 0 
and Block 2 partners have invested more than $2.6 million to address critical needs. 
In 2009, Chevron Corporation donated $500,000 to build a new surgery unit.

On a visit with other company executives, George Kirkland met with hospital director 
Dr. Luis Bernardino (center) and Dr. Margarida Correia, head of the emergency unit.  
In the background is translator Helder Paulo. 

How do you respond to the 
expectations of governments  
and communities?

We work closely with both communities 
and governments where we operate to 
create an environment where our presence 
is mutually beneficial. While we cannot, 
and should not, replace the government, 
our involvement is a delicate balancing 
act, and we want our host communities to 
benefit from our presence.

The key to being welcome and effective is 
to be engaged with communities and gov-
ernment leaders. Engagement is core to 
how we operate and develop relationships 
and, from my perspective, is one of our key 
strengths as a company.

How has your interaction  
with the communities in Nigeria 
and Indonesia changed your 
perspective on our role as an 
energy company?

For me, this interaction reinforced that  
we are deeply involved in and closely  
linked to our host communities. You learn 
that very quickly when you’re in an inter-
national setting. 

Because of the scale of our operations, 
we are able to create opportunities for 
governments and communities in educa-
tion, health, development, employment 
and alternate income streams. So, our 
engagement activities help create an 
essential connection between our business 
and the communities. And, in turn, healthy 
communities — economically, medically, 

educationally — are very good places in 
which to do business. 

I think it is also important to say that  
our employees exemplify our commit-
ment to the communities. This is certainly 
true in Indonesia and Nigeria, and I’ve 
 witnessed it in all our areas of operation. 
Our employees understand the value of, 
and are personally involved in, being a 
positive presence. This is where they live, 
where their children go to school — they, 
too, want their communities, as well as 
their employer, to be successful.

Please explain the link  
between community success  
and business success.

In our business, as I mentioned, building 
and sustaining mutually beneficial relation-
ships with governments and communities 
are essential for success. Any time we are 
well engaged with our local host com-
munities and governments, we all realize 
the benefits.

In many instances, our operations are a 
catalyst for progressing community devel-
opment. To create a network of suppliers 
for our operations, for example, we work 
with governments and communities to 
develop local businesses, create jobs and 
develop a skilled workforce.

A constant goal is to create an environ-
ment for mutual success. The end result 
is sustainable community growth for our 
neighbors and a positive operating environ-
ment for our company.

23

George Kirkland assumed the position of vice 
chairman in January 2010. He joined Chevron 
in 1974 and has been responsible for global 
exploration, production and gas since 2005. 

What experiences in your career 
have shown you the importance  
of community engagement?

Everyone is shaped by his or her experi-
ences. The more places you are, the more 
you see, and you gain a greater under-
standing of how the world works. My first 
experience working outside the United 
States was when I went to Indonesia 
when I was 28 years old. In my time there, 
I saw the need for building partnerships, 
cooperation and trust between host com-
munities and our operations — so it was a 
great experience for me.

I also went to Nigeria for about seven 
years. We’ve been in Nigeria for a long 
time, and our operations are integrally 
tied to the communities. Through my 
experiences living in Indonesia, in Nigeria, 
throughout North America, and in each 
of the countries where we operate, I saw 
firsthand the needs of governments and 
communities. And I have an appreciation 
of the value that we, as a company, bring. 
I’ve learned throughout my career that for 
us to be successful in meeting the world’s 
demand for energy, we have to form part-
nerships aimed both at developing energy 
resources and at building capacity in our 
host countries.

Community Engagement
Promoting Human Progress and Economic Development

Chevron’s community engagement programs are strategic investments in 
the future of communities and our business success — across cultures and 
continents and amid complex socioeconomic environments.

Above: Students from the Rainbow Village 
project in Rach Gia, Vietnam, take a break 
from their studies (see page 29). 

Our ability to build mutually beneficial 
long-term relationships is enhanced by 
investments that simultaneously provide 
lasting community benefits and direct busi-
ness value. This approach involves working 
cooperatively with host governments, com-
munities and civil society, nongovernmental 
organizations, and aid agencies to assess 
and understand socioeconomic conditions. 
Our three primary focus areas for com-
munity investments are improving access 
to basic human needs, enabling education 
and training opportunities, and promoting 
sustainable livelihoods. Each element helps 
contribute to socioeconomic progress. In 
2009, Chevron invested $144 million in 

our global partnerships and programs: 
48 percent in North America; 20 percent in 
Africa; 14 percent in Asia-Pacific; 14 percent 
in Eurasia, Europe and the Middle East; and 
4 percent in Latin America.

Improving Access to Basic Human Needs
Improving the quality of life in communi-
ties where we operate requires having 
access to health care, food, water, housing, 
sanitation and other basic needs. Chevron 
leverages its funding, organizational 
capabilities, technology and personnel 
to aid communities. In Bangladesh, where 
we provide employment for 2,700 work-
ers and meet more than 45 percent of the 
country’s natural gas needs, we established 
three Smiling Sun clinics to provide health 
services to villagers. In 2009, a structure 
for a permanent clinic was inaugurated, 
and more than 100 teachers in Bibiyana 

received first-aid training. With the support 
of local and international partners, approxi-
mately 8,000 villagers near our Bibiyana 
and Moulavi Bazar gas fields receive serv-
ices from these clinics each month. Such 
investments can stabilize local conditions 
to improve operating environments and 
foster economic development.

The Global Fund to Fight  
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
Our efforts to fight disease show how our 
long-term business interests and commit-
ment to corporate responsibility are linked. 
Chevron is the first Corporate Champion 
of a three-year, $30 million investment to 
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and Malaria, a public-private partnership 
created in 2002 with support from the 
United Nations. We are working with Global 
Fund grant recipients in Angola, Nigeria, 

24

South Africa, Indonesia, Thailand and the 
Philippines to stem the spread of these 
diseases. These are communities where 
we have significant operations and a large 
employee base, and where Global Fund 
partnerships can help leverage or expand 
our existing community engagement and 
public health efforts. In 2009, the second 
year of the program, all six of our in- 
country partnerships were under way.

We worked with a recipient of Global 
Fund resources in Thailand — Program 
for Appropriate Technology in Health 
(PATH) — to increase HIV/AIDS awareness 
and education among Chevron employ-
ees, Thai youth and Caltex customers in 
Bangkok. Together, we organized the first 
AIDS Education Youth Camp, strengthening 
leadership skills and HIV/AIDS awareness 
of 25 youth leaders. We introduced PATH’s 
Parents Network to Chevron employees to 
help parents improve their understanding 
of HIV/AIDS and enhance communica-
tion about the disease with their children. 
PATH partnered with Caltex retailers and 
attendants to distribute approximately 
40,000 brochures with HIV/AIDS informa-
tion at Caltex stations in Bangkok.

Chevron Nigeria Ltd. and the National 
Agency for the Control of AIDS launched 
a Workplace Wellness program with 
10 Lagos-based small and medium-sized 
enterprises and nonprofits. The program 
provides technical support, advocacy and 
a system for monitoring wellness practices.

In the Philippines, we are partnering  
with the Global Fund to fight tuberculosis, 
the sixth-leading cause of mortality and 
morbidity, according to the Philippine 
Department of Health. Thus far, our 
contributions have helped train more than 
12,000 service providers to detect tuber-
culosis. Through these efforts, more than 
6,900 new cases were detected, of which 
1,300 were drug-resistant. To complement 
the Global Fund partnership, Chevron 
employees, Caltex retailers and service 
 station employees participated in aware-
ness events; Caltex.com/ph provided 
retailers with information and referrals. 
Through its network of Caltex stations, 
Chevron is planning an education and 
awareness campaign aimed at public-
 transport motorists. The campaign will 
focus on prevention and early detection.

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Partnership Through Community Consultation

During a two-year Arctic exploration program, 
our community engagement team, as part of 
our Environmental, Social and Health Impact 
Assessment process, held numerous meet-
ings with residents from Anaktuvuk Pass 
and other villages on Alaska’s North Slope. 
Anaktuvuk Pass is the last remaining settle-
ment of the Nunamiut (People of the Land) 
Inupiat communities in Alaska (pictured).

The meetings enabled the residents to 
learn about Chevron’s drilling plans and 
express concerns about the possible effects 
on village life and their relationship to the 
land — including subsistence hunting activi-
ties. The consultation process gave us an 
opportunity to adjust project planning to 
mitigate these issues, including taking special 
care around the drill site to prevent disrup-
tion to local culture.

Before exploration, we also conducted base-
line studies of the area’s environment and 
wildlife, which resulted in modification to 
the drilling plans in order to reduce potential 
impacts.

In another environmental effort that the 
company started in Alaska in 1991, Caring for 
the Kenai, Chevron and partner Tesoro Corp. 
sponsor an environmental awareness contest 
in which students compete for cash awards 
by developing practical, applicable solutions 
to preserve and improve the local environ-
ment. The students identify the issues they 
wish to address. Several first-place winners 
of this nationally recognized program received 
President’s Environmental Youth Awards from 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for 
their projects. To learn about Caring for the 
Kenai, visit CaringForTheKenai.com.

Training Teachers and Students

Chevron is partnering with several organizations, including The Jakarta Post and 
the Newspaper in Education Institute, in a unique program to teach English. The 
program is based on the idea that using the newspaper as a living textbook can 
make teaching and learning English enjoyable, interactive and relevant. Chevron 
supports the program by organizing training in communities near company  
operations. More than 750 students and 300 teachers from junior and senior  
high schools in Indonesia’s Riau and East Kalimantan provinces benefited from 
this  training since Chevron’s participation began in 2008. 

25

United States

Fifth-grade girls experience the 
 visualization center at Chevron head-
quarters in San Ramon, California, 
through TechBridge, a company-
supported program of the Chabot 
Space and Science Center in Oakland, 
California. During field trips at Chevron, 
women in engineering and other 
technical fields serve as role models 
to introduce girls to science and 
engineering and try to spark the girls’ 
interest in those fields. See the video 
at Chevron.com/TechBridge.

Unlimited Possibilities

26

Community Engagement

In Angola, the Ministry of Health is our 
partner in combating malaria, where our 
Global Fund contribution in 2009 helped 
provide anti-malarial treatments to chil-
dren under 5 years of age and pregnant 
women. More than 440,000 long-lasting, 
insecticide-treated nets were distributed 
to families to help with prevention.

Living With HIV/AIDS in South Africa
In the Dunoon community, near our refin-
ery in Cape Town, South Africa, 50 percent 
of the people are suffering from HIV/AIDS. 
Many living with the disease have few 
opportunities to eat regular meals, which 
limits the effectiveness of anti-retroviral 
treatments.

When community leaders approached 
our community advisory panel about 
the urgent need to provide assistance to 
those living with HIV/AIDS, Chevron — 
collaborating with the Department of 
Social Development, community leaders 
and a local nongovernmental organization 
called Heavenly Promise — established the 
Dunoon Community Home-Based Care 
Center in 2009.

The program trained caregivers from the 
community who bring nearly 150 meals 
each week to homebound people with 
the disease. Beyond supplying funding to 
build and stock the facility, Chevron and 
its partners provided project manage-
ment training to community women to 
run the center. Thus, the community has 
taken ownership of the center and keeps it 

SEEDS of Change

sustainable. To learn more, please see the 
video at Chevron.com/Dunoon.

Responding to Natural Disasters
In the past five years, Chevron supported 
response, relief and recovery efforts after 
21 natural disasters, engaging communi-
ties through local partnerships to restore 
access to health care, water, food and 
shelter, and to implement efforts for last-
ing recovery. In August 2009, Chevron, 
which partners with the China National 
Petroleum Corp. on the Chuandongbei gas 
project in China, donated $600,000 to 
enhance health care facilities and improve 
care at a hospital in rural Dazhou. This was 
Chevron’s second major contribution in the 
Sichuan province. Since 1983, the company 
has directed more than $100 million to 
disaster relief and recovery.

In Indonesia, we responded to a series 
of earthquakes by providing immediate 
assistance, including dispatching a Chevron 
medical team of three doctors, 12 para-
medics and a psychologist. We transported 
50 Indonesian Red Cross doctors in a 
 company-chartered plane and donated 
food, water, clothing, medicine, sanitary 
supplies and carpentry equipment. The 
company matched the funds employees 
raised for relief, recovery and rebuilding.

Enabling Education and Training
Our investments in education and training 
contribute to local development and build 
constructive relationships that improve our 
ability to conduct business.

Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics (STEM) Chevron invests 
in STEM programs to support its business 
objectives to help develop employment 
skills and contribute to economic progress. 
In 2009 in Thailand, we sponsored sum-
mer camps in geology and geophysics for 
high school students. We also supported 
graduate studies in petroleum geoscience 
at Chulalongkorn University and pro-
vided 61 scholarships in engineering and 
geoscience.

Chevron’s California Partnership is a 
$7 million initiative launched in 2009 to 
broaden our partnerships with nonprofits 
that support underserved communities. 
Initially, 18 nonprofits were selected that 
provide education, entrepreneurial skills 
and job training in communities where 
we operate. Our contribution brought our 
total community investment in the state 
to $21.8 million in 2009.

Chevron Philippines consolidated its 
education and job training initiatives for 
underserved youth under the Chevron 
Energy for LearningTM program. The 
company partners with local communities, 
governments and nonprofits to provide 
opportunities for at-risk youth, who include 
former street children, out-of-school 
youth and children in conflict with the 
law. Since 2006, the KAPATID program, a 
partnership with the Marcellin Foundation 
and the Education and Employment 
Alliance, has provided technical training 
and job placement services to more than 

Project SEED (Summer Experiences for 
the Economically Disadvantaged) encour-
ages achievement in science among high 
school students from economically disad-
vantaged backgrounds. Elaine Yamaguchi, 
a Chevron scientist based in Richmond, 
California, spearheads Chevron’s participa-
tion in this national program, which the 
American Chemical Society established 
in 1968. She volunteers 200 hours a year 
matching candidates with mentors. “This 
is the most important thing I’ve done in 
my life — mentoring these students,” she 

said. Over the past 10 years, Chevron 
provided research opportunities for 
40 students and contributed $100,000. 
One student, Jingxun Chen, spent eight 
weeks testing engine oils in the labora-
tory under Chevron’s guidance. She is 
now a freshman scholarship student at 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Left: Chevron chemist and mentor 
Jennifer Barbarow and chemist Bob 
Drues examine fractions that mentee 
Jingxun Chen separated from a test oil.

27

Community Engagement

337  out-of-school youth, at least 73 percent 
of whom are now employed. The Loaves 
and Fishes program in 2009 opened three 
bakeries operated and managed by former 
street children and children in conflict with 
the law. And through the Caltex Mentor 
Program, more than 1,000 volunteers — 
from the workforce, retailers and business 
partners — have helped improve literacy at 
24 public elementary schools for the past 
five years.

Chevron’s refinery near Cape Town, South 
Africa, trains disadvantaged students, help-
ing address a shortage of local skills in the 
oil, gas and chemical manufacturing indus-
tries. Students participate at the refinery 
in a mentorship program with employ-
ees and managers. In 2009, we funded 
11 student scholarships to Stellenbosch 
University, The Cape Peninsula University 
of Technology and the University of Cape 
Town. We provided artisan training to 
179 students from Northlink College.

Saudi Petroleum Services Polytechnic in 
Dammam, Saudi Arabia, is the country’s 
first institute to train students for field-
service jobs in the country’s petroleum 
industry. In 2008, Chevron and partners 
launched the institute, which in 2009 added 
faculty, facilities and courses and admitted 
a second class of more than 200 students. 
The first class will graduate in 2010.

Partnership to Provide Education Since 
2002, Chevron and the Discovery Channel 
Global Education Partnership (DCGEP) 
have worked with government educa-
tion agencies to improve learning and 
complement national education priorities. 
Through the initiative, Learning Centers 
are established at underserved primary 
schools. Teachers receive three years of 
training and mentoring and are provided 
with televisions, DVD players and libraries 
of high-quality, locally relevant educa-
tional videos to complement their lesson 
plans. So far, 65 Learning Centers have 
been established in Angola, Nigeria, South 
Africa and Brazil, including 15 new centers 
in South Africa and Brazil in 2009. More 
than 2,400 teachers, 104,000 students and 
312,000 community members are involved. 
Ninety-three percent of Chevron-sponsored 
Learning Centers are self-sustaining after 
three years. Since the program began, 
43 Chevron-sponsored schools graduated 

28

Sustainable 
Livelihoods

Chevron collaborates with local 
stakeholders to address community 
needs. Chevron Nigeria Ltd. partnered 
with nongovernmental organizations 
and the Egbema-Gbaramatu Central 
Development Committee (composed 
of a cluster of Ijaw communities near 
company operations) to conduct a 
sustainable livelihood assessment 
to prioritize needs and measure the 
viability of proposed projects. The fish 
and poultry farm in Benikrukru is one 
such project. Plans are to stock the 
farm and start up in 2010. The commu-
nity set up a four-person management 
board to handle the operation when 
the farm is completed.

from the program and continue operations 
under their own management.

Chevron and DCGEP build local capacity 
by hiring trainers from the community 
and empowering teachers to be agents 
of change. Participating schools report an 
increase in student enrollment, improved 
motivation and academic performance, and 
a decrease in absenteeism. The centers 
become focal points in the community. 
Parents and community groups lead 
projects addressing topics such as the 
environment, AIDS, teen pregnancy and 
malnutrition. During a garbage crisis in 
Caracas, Venezuela, the community used 
video programming and the Learning 
Center to inspire a grassroots movement to 
improve trash collection — and subsequently 
launched a recycling campaign to increase 
awareness of environmental issues.

In Vietnam, we are working to increase 
educational opportunities for children in 
the Mekong Delta. In 2009, in partnership 
with the National Fund for Vietnamese 
Children, a Chevron-led consortium — 
composed of Chevron Vietnam, Mitsui Oil 
Exploration Co. Ltd., and PTT Exploration 
and Production Public Co. Ltd. — granted 
scholarships to 235 schoolchildren in Can 
Tho. The initiative is part of a larger pro-
gram that we led to provide scholarships 

to more than 700 children in Ca Mau, Kien 
Giang and Can Tho.

Chevron Canada is a 16-year sponsor of 
the Chevron Open Minds program, which 
began in Calgary, to improve students’ 
literacy, writing skills and desire to achieve 
through experiential learning. In 2009, 
we committed an additional $500,000, 
bringing total funding, including matching 
grants, to more than $4 million since our 
sponsorship began. The program motivates 
students from first through eighth grade 
by moving their classrooms for weeklong 
excursions to the Calgary Zoo, the Glenbow 
Museum, the Cross Conservation Area and 
the TELUS World of Science. Since 1993, 
more than 50,000 students and 2,000 
teachers have participated in the award-
winning program, which was expanded in 
2009 to Fort McMurray, Alberta, and to 
St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador.

The Chevron Human Energy School 
Network was established in 2008 in 
Thailand in collaboration with the Ministry 
of Education’s Office of the Commission for 
Basic Education to teach students about 
environmental issues such as water use 
and waste recycling. In 2009, the program 
included 20 schools from 18 provinces, 
involving teachers, students, parents and 
community members. Chevron provides 
financial support and technical assist-
ance. In 2010, an additional 30 schools 
will participate.

Supporting Sustainable Livelihoods
Chevron is committed to improving social, 
environmental and economic conditions 
where we operate. Our focus on sustain-
able employment opportunities promotes 
self-sufficiency. With partners, we identify 
programs to promote a better standard of 
living, create a more stable operating envi-
ronment and improve relationships.

Computer literacy is essential to compete in 
today’s global economy. In 2007, Chevron 
partnered with the Fisheries Department 
of Malaysia to equip a community cen-
ter in the rural fishing village of Kuala 
Pahang, in the Pekan district, and provide 
basic computer and language classes. The 
program has had more than 420 registered 
students, ages 5 to 50, since the program 
began and has helped improve the com-
puter literacy levels of residents, including 

Rainbow Village

Children in Rach Gia — in the Kien 
Giang province of Vietnam — who 
lived with their families in the city’s 
garbage dump and were vulnerable 
to trafficking and other abuses now 
attend a safe, new school.

In collaboration with Habitat for 
Humanity Vietnam and their non-
governmental organization partners, 
Chevron and fellow donor companies 
are helping change the situation for 
these children and their families.

The Rainbow Village project opened a 
school and now provides scholarships 
to ensure that the children can attend. 
The partnership also opened a train-
ing and resource center, built water 
and sanitation systems, and helped 
move 24 families into newly con-
structed homes, with 12 more homes 
under construction at year-end. Many 
community members participated in 
construction training onsite and now 
use the skills they learned during the 
project in their work with local con-
tractors. The support of government 
partners led to participants’ gaining 
title to their homes.

Chevron employees participated in 
Habitat Vietnam’s activities by joining 
in home-building activities in the Tien 
Giang and Hai Duong provinces. 

More than 17,000 participants supported 
more than 10,000 nonprofits. 

Below: Thi Huyen and her family 
enjoy their new home.

Above: Employees Kassie Eckhart 
(left) and Erin Matsumoto are two of 
30 Chevron volunteers who partnered 
with the nonprofit GRID Alternatives to 
install two rooftop solar electric sys-
tems at a Habitat for Humanity housing 
development in Oakland, California, in 
September 2009. The project will provide 
3.6 kilowatts of clean power and save 
homeowners more than $30,000 in elec-
tricity costs over the systems’ life spans.

29

Chevron Humankind

Chevron employees show their commit-
ment to benefiting their com munities 
by volunteering and donating. The 
company helps support those efforts 
through Chevron Humankind, which 
matches U.S. employees’ and retirees’ 
financial contributions to nonprofit 
organizations and provides grants for 
volunteer time.

Since the program began in 2008, 
participant contributions and company 
matches resulted in $48 million to 
advance the important work of non-
profits to strengthen local communities. 

Community Engagement

fishermen. In 2009, Chevron transferred 
full project management to the Fisheries 
Department and a fishermen’s association, 
which now continue the programs.

Promoting Women
Chevron Vietnam recently began working 
with the nonprofit Save the Children in 
the Mekong Delta to support sustainable 
livelihoods for disadvantaged women. 
Our commitment is designed to improve 
the economic status of 850 women in low-
income households in the areas of animal 
husbandry, homestead gardening, aqua-
culture and service businesses. Assistance 
includes providing access to financial 
services, including loans and financial-skills 
training. The program engages local organi-
zations, such as the women’s unions, and 
strengthens their ability to deliver services 
on an ongoing basis. These programs are 
being implemented in areas where our gas-
to-power project pipeline will be located.

Chevron Bangladesh and nonprofit 
employment organization Hathay Bunano 
partnered in 2009 to establish a train-
ing center for underprivileged women of 
Kamalganj, Moulavi Bazar. Hathay Bunano 
employs 3,500 artisans across a network 
of 33 rural cooperatives to create hand-
 knitted, crocheted and embroidered goods 
sold in markets around the world. The train-
ing gives women income-generating skills 
by creating sustainable, fairly paid, flexible 
and local employment opportunities.

Chevron also initiated a five-year, 
$250,000 scholarship program with 
the new Asian University for Women 
in southeast Bangladesh. It is the only 
university in Bangladesh exclusively for 
women. In 2009, the university enrolled 
its first undergraduates, with students 
from Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Nepal, 
Pakistan and Sri Lanka.

A partnership with the Association of 
Business Women of Kazakhstan and local 
government agencies began in 2009 to 
address high rates of unemployment and 
poverty among women in Astana and 
the Almaty area. The program focuses 
on training women in food preparation, 
home repair and child care. More than 440 
women participated. Eighty percent found 
employment, and 10 percent started their 
own businesses. The project coincided with 

30

Supporting Local 
Business in California

To help assist local businesses in 
Richmond, California, Chevron in 
2009 invested $30,000 in the West 
Contra Costa Business Development 
Center. This nonprofit agency helps 
local small, minority- and women-
owned businesses gain the skills and 
resources needed to be competitive 
and grow. One goal of the center is to 
bring 20 businesses to the $500,000 
revenue level, which is expected to 
generate more than 200 new jobs and 
$20 million for the local economy. In 
addition to this investment, in 2009 
Chevron spent more than $54 million 
with small businesses in Richmond.

Below: Sergio Tostado’s gardening 
business, New Era 2000 Landscaping, 
is one of the more than 170 businesses 
that benefit from Chevron-funded pro-
grams. In the background is Salvador 
Albarrau.

a government-initiated program, Road Map, 
to increase professional development and 
support employment and self-employment.

Stability Through Partnership
In 2005, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL) 
launched a model program that empowers 
communities to determine what they need 
to improve their quality of life. This collabor-
ative process — involving CNL, communities, 
government and nongovernmental organi-
zations — is designed to foster peace 
and stability in areas where we operate. 
Our program led to the creation of eight 
Regional Development Committees, now 
representing more than 425 communities 

and approximately 850,000 people. Some 
communities that once were hostile toward 
each other now work together to build hos-
pitals, introduce electricity to rural areas 
and conduct job-training programs.

By the end of 2009, these committees 
were managing 192 infrastructure projects, 
of which 110 are complete. Among them 
are six solar-powered water projects in the 
Izombe region that have helped alleviate 
the perennial water shortage in some com-
munities. Rural communities in the Bayelsa 
and Rivers states benefited from electrical 
expansion projects, and a new hospital 
was built for the Dodo River communities. 
Housing projects enabled displaced Itsekiri 
families to return to their communities, 
and more than 1.9 miles (3 km) of walkways 
improved access for Ilaje communities. 
Microcredit programs provided job train-
ing and opportunities for 1,600 men and 
women in the region.

Each committee signs a Global Memoran-
dum of Understanding (GMOU) with CNL 
that is based on the principles of transpar-
ency, accountability and sustainability. 
CNL and its joint-venture partner, Nigerian 
National Petroleum Corp., provide funding 
for governance, administration, project 
and partner costs. Since 2005, we have 
contributed more than $46 million to the 
committees. In 2009, the program received 
funding from the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to build 
the committees’ administrative capabili-
ties — the first time international donor 
support was provided. With this collabora-
tive foundation in place, CNL negotiated 
new three-year extensions with all eight 
committees in 2009. Chevron and USAID 
established a new partnership in 2009 to 
build the capacity of these committees, 
working with other organizations in the 
region and establishing a growing network 
of support for development.

“If there is anyone out there who still 
doubts the workability of the GMOU, who 
still wonders if the GMOU can deliver in 
our time, today’s commissioning is an 
answer to your questions,” said Berry 
Negresse, chairman of the Dodo River 
Regional Development Committee, at the 
opening of the 45-bed Amatu cottage 
hospital, a  community-driven project in 
the Niger Delta.

A Corporate Leader

Partnerships With USAID

“The United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) and Chevron are 
partnering to build and deliver economic 
development programs in several countries 
throughout the world, including Angola, 
Brazil, Indonesia, Nigeria, Kazakhstan and 
Turkmenistan. Since 2002, Chevron has 
been a corporate leader in USAID’s Global 
Development Alliance approach of engag-
ing public- and private-sector assets to 
make a difference for the world’s poorest. 
Together we worked to build community 
entrepreneurial capacity, train women 
and youth for productive employment, 
revitalize agriculture, jump-start small busi-
nesses, rebuild basic infrastructure after 
disasters, and contribute to local conflict 
mitigation and peace-building efforts. Our 
partnership with an innovative industry 
leader like Chevron demonstrates that 
private companies have a unique role and 
a special comparative advantage to offer 
development. This type of public-private 
collaboration is truly significant in that it 
promises longer-term, more sustainable 
results, and I challenge other corporate 
leaders to follow Chevron’s example.” 

alonzo	Fulgham	
Acting Administrator, USAID

Turkmenistan In 2009, we launched Chevron Nebitgaz B.V. in Ashgabat, 
Turkmenistan, to pursue opportunities in the hydrocarbon sector. To understand 
and address the country’s highest-priority needs, we collaborate with Turkmen 
nationals, the government of Turkmenistan and local community groups. 
“There is no better way to become trusted members of the community than 
to become part of the community,” observed Douglas Uchikura, president of 
Chevron Nebitgaz.

Chevron is working with USAID in Turkmenistan to demonstrate a sustained, 
country-driven commitment to growth and prosperity that is mutually beneficial. 
An initiative on International Financial Reporting Standards works with university 
professors, Turkmen oil and gas sector specialists, and local accountants to con-
form to these standards. Also, a partnership program with Junior Achievement 
provides business education to 20,000 Turkmen youth each year to prepare them 
for success in the global economy. Chevron and USAID also collaborate with the 
Ministry of Health and Medical Industry to support youth centers that provide lan-
guage and computer classes, social activities, and referrals for medical treatment 
to 30,000 youth annually.

The USAID representative for Turkmenistan, Ashley Moretz, said, “The partner-
ship with Chevron provides an excellent opportunity to expand and improve 
cooperation with USAID’s long-term partners in Turkmenistan. As the country 
builds its own model for development, USAID and Chevron are responding to 
Turkmenistan’s national priorities by bringing international standards and experi-
ence to mutually beneficial projects.”

Brazil In December 2009, we announced a partnership with USAID, local nongov-
ernmental organizations and government agencies to improve job opportunities 
for women in Brazil. Our three-year, $1.6 million program in Rio de Janeiro and 
Espírito Santo will provide training and job placement programs.

Right: U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton  
congratulates Chevron’s Alan Kleier after 
witnessing the signing of the Memorandum 
of Understanding (MOU) between Chevron, 
USAID and the Cooperative League of the 
United States of America (CLUSA). The 
MOU supports Angola’s continued focus 
on developing a diversified and sustainable 
economy by supporting financial, educa-
tional, technical and training services to 
help improve the commercial viability of 
small to medium-scale farms. This MOU 
builds on the Angola Partnership Initiative, 
which started in 2002 with an initial 
commitment of $25 million from Chevron 
Corporation. 

Clinton, in her remarks, spoke about 
this collaboration as “a model of the 
global architecture of cooperation we 
are building through partnership with 
and beyond government. The partner-
ship between USAID, Chevron and 
CLUSA represents a new approach to 
development assistance.” 

At left is Angola’s Minister of 
Agriculture Afonso Pedro Canga. 
Behind Alan Kleier is Angola’s Minister 
of External Relations Assunção 
Afonso dos Anjos. 

31

Workforce
Developing Human Energy

We invest in people to improve our global capability to reach our 
strategic goals and outperform our strongest competitors. Our Invest 
in People strategy promotes workforce and leadership development. 
Building employees’ professional skills strengthens our organizational 
capability while enhancing personal learning and enrichment.

Safety
Our commitment to the health and safety 
of our employees and contractors is 
recognized in The Chevron Way, man-
aged through our Operational Excellence 
Management System, and reinforced at 
all levels of the corporation. Chevron’s 
efforts to create and maintain a safety 
culture include starting meetings with 
safety moments, tracking and awarding 
business units for strong safety perform-
ance, sharing best practices and lessons 
learned, and using behavior-based safety 
evaluations. Our Zero Is Attainable (ZIA) 
awards are granted to eligible organiza-
tions that complete 1 million work hours or 
1,000 days worked with no workforce Days 
Away From Work incidents and no fatalities. 
In 2009, 61 eligible organizations received 
111 ZIA awards.

While we had our safest year ever, we 
did not meet our target of zero fatali-
ties in 2009. Each fatality is thoroughly 
investigated, and the chairman reviews 
the results. Incident reports and lessons 
learned are distributed throughout the 
company. Motor vehicle safety remains a 
challenge that we are addressing through 
training, and we hold awareness events 
during Global Road Safety Week. Our work-
force’s increased awareness has reduced 
our most severe motor vehicle incidents by 
73 percent since 2007.

Approximately one-third of all recordable 
injuries suffered by our workforce from 
2004 through 2009 were hand injuries. 
In 2009, we focused on improving our per-
formance during Global Hand Safety Week, 
when tools and information were dissemi-
nated to our workforce.

Process safety management is focused 
on reducing the likelihood and severity 
of unplanned releases that can result in 
environmental or safety incidents. As a 
result of Chevron’s efforts in process safety 

32

and reliability, in 2009 we experienced our 
highest rates of reliability; and our manu-
facturing unit’s 2008 performance ranked 
us among the best in our competitor group 
in Solomon Associates’ study published 
in 2009.

Health
Chevron invests in the health of employ-
ees to improve productivity, reduce costs 
related to employee health, and optimize 
employee physical health and mental 
well-being. Our programs include an award-
winning HIV/AIDS training program and 
policy and programs to support employees 
who want to make positive lifestyle changes. 
In 2009, we advanced these initiatives by 
completing a tuberculosis training program 
similar to our HIV/AIDS program, continued 
to roll out our cardiovascular program, and 
increased onsite health fairs and screen-
ings. We launched a version of our HIV/AIDS 
training without Chevron branding that can 
be shared with our supply chain partners 
and communities where we operate.

Chevron is currently implementing a 
Fitness for Duty process, which confirms 
or identifies the circumstances under 
which employees are able to safely per-
form essential physical, psychological and 
cognitive requirements of their job without 
risk to self, others or the environment. In 
addition, we are continuing to implement 
our Occupational Hygiene process with the 
support of a corporate center of excellence, 
which is working to build technical capacity 
and is establishing networks to share suc-
cessful practices and lessons learned.

Chevron launched a cardiovascular 
health program in 2007 and, since then, 
continues to deploy it in more countries 
around the world. In 2009, 48 percent of 
employees at locations where the program 
has been launched participated in the 
program, which includes a risk assessment 
and personalized recommendations and 
coaching. Johnny Pak, a refinery business 
manager in Pascagoula, Mississippi, started 
the cardiovascular program in early 2008, 

Healthy Families

At Tengizchevroil LLP, in which Chevron 
is a 50 percent partner, citizens of 
Kazakh stan compose 83 percent of the 
workforce and hold 75 percent of the 
managerial positions. The company 
offers ongoing training and develop-
ment programs to help employees 
advance to positions of increasing 
responsibility.

In December 2009, Tengizchevroil 
achieved 23 million work hours with 
no company Days Away From Work 
injuries.

Above: Tengizchevroil employee and 
legal counsel Alexandr Borzilov with 
his wife and daughter.

shortly before his 40th birthday. In not 
quite two years in the program, Pak  
progressed from walking around his neigh-
borhood to running several miles without 
stopping. He lost 35 pounds and improved 
his blood pressure. The key to his success 
was being accountable to his coach for 
meeting his goals. “I have many people 
counting on me,” said Pak, “my family, my 
friends, my work colleagues, and I plan 
on being there to serve them for a long, 
long time.”

Arrive Alive
Every day, our employees and contractors 
maneuver through crowded, busy streets 
to go to work and return home to their 
families. Our goal is that they arrive safe.

Over the past five years, we invested 
$10 million and more than 54,000 hours 
in our Arrive Alive program, collaborat-
ing with other private-sector companies, 
international donors and governments 
to implement programs to help eliminate 
traffic accidents and fatalities. The pro-
gram is well established in five countries: 
El Salvador, Guatemala, Nigeria, South 
Africa and Uganda.

In 2009, we were recognized with  
the Prince Michael International Road 
Safety award. In presenting the award, 
HRH Prince Michael of Kent, Patron of the 
Commission for Global Road Safety, said, 
“The company rates road safety highly and 
is an example to all in the corporate sector 
of the importance of sharing knowledge — 
a vital ingredient for building sustainable 
road safety programs in any country.”

In South Africa, Chevron is a member of 
the Global Road Safety Partnership. We 
sponsored two programs for schoolchildren 
because, as pedestrians, children are some 
of the most vulnerable road users. The pro-
grams reach 22 primary schools and nine 
high schools near a busy road with heavy 
pedestrian traffic. The older students used 
music, dance and humor to convey road 
safety challenges and solutions.

Amelia Haycock, Chevron Arrive Alive coor-
dinator for South Africa, said about the 
programs, “It was an incredible experience 
to see the impact of our involvement in 
the community, in particular, the leaders of 
tomorrow embracing safety.” 

Strength in Diversity

In April 2009, Chevron was recognized 
as the University of Texas at Austin’s 
2009 Partner of the Year for Equal 
Opportunity Engineering (EOE) for our 
outstanding and consistent support 
of recruitment, academics and profes-
sional development; for encouraging 
employees to serve as role models 
through involvement in events hosted 
by the EOE program, the Pi Sigma Pi 
Minority Academic Engineering Society, 

the National Society of Black Engineers 
and the Society of Hispanic Professional 
Engineers; and for proactively recruit-
ing diverse engineers for summer 
internships and full-time positions. 

Above: In Houston, Texas, Chevron 
Energy Technology Co. lab technician  
Markeith Tennison works within a  
multinational research team.

Investing in People
Despite challenging economic times, 
Chevron continues to recruit to meet 
strategic future needs. Efforts to develop 
our existing workforce remain on sched-
ule. Our Horizons development program 
for technical specialists — in many areas, 
such as health, environment and safety; 
petroleum engineering; and information 
technology — had 2,500 participants in 
2009, up from 2,300 in 2008. This five-
year investment in cross-functional training 
accelerates employee development on the 
job, providing exposure to our business 
while sharpening competencies.

After Horizons, technical employees can 
participate in Pathways, an employee-
driven career development program 
designed to expand the technical and 
professional skills of employees and 
strengthen the long-term capability of 
the company. More than 4,600 employ-
ees participated in 2009, up from 3,000 
employees in 2008.

Eighteen field operators from PetroChina, a 
subsidiary of the China National Petroleum 

Corp. and our joint-venture partner on  
the Chuandongbei gas project in China, 
trained at our Employee Resource  
Training Center in Lafayette, Louisiana, 
for three months in 2009. Since return-
ing to China, they have been sharing their 
knowledge and training other PetroChina 
operators. Chevron’s ability to operate 
sour gas fields and plants safely and 
efficiently is one of the reasons we were 
selected in 2007 to develop and operate 
the Chuandongbei project as part of a 
30-year partnership. Many of PetroChina’s 
operators, although having years of experi-
ence, were new to working with sour gas 
or high-pressure production. Chevron 
developed the training after giving all the 
Chuandongbei field operators a compre-
hensive knowledge and skills assessment 
to identify gaps.

Through Chevron’s University Partnership 
Program, we collaborate with key universi-
ties around the world through scholarships, 
grants, and departmental support. Chevron 
has provided funding in excess of $15 mil-
lion per year to help develop academic 
excellence, research and alliances that 

33

Workforce

provide students with the skills needed for 
careers in the energy industry.

Partnership schools in non-U.S. locations 
are based on Chevron’s key areas of opera-
tion, including Western Australia, Indonesia, 
Kazakhstan, Scotland (North Sea) and 
Thailand. Efforts are under way to explore 
partnerships in additional countries, includ-
ing Angola, Brazil and Nigeria. A portion 
of our international effort focuses on part-
nering world-class institutions with less 
developed programs in order to strengthen 
the faculty and curriculum.

In the United States, we have sought out 
alliances at major institutions, including 
Stanford University, Texas A&M University, 
Louisiana State University, University of 
Texas, Colorado School of Mines, University 
of California at Davis, and Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. We also are con-
nected to a network of more than 100 
schools in the United States. These rela-
tionships enable Chevron not only to help 
foster talent in critical disciplines — such 
as engineering, earth science, finance, 
information technology and environmental 
science — but also to help facilitate growth 
of minority participation.

Diversity
Diversity is one of The Chevron Way values 
and is a competitive advantage to the 
company by promoting innovation through 
different perspectives and experiences. 
The percentage of women and non-
Caucasian men represented at the senior 
executive level has grown 10 percent since 
global diversity tracking began in 2002. 
Employee networks support diversity and 
innovation in the workforce. The number 
of worldwide memberships in Chevron’s 
11 employee networks, which can include 
individuals who are members of multiple 
networks, grew from approximately 18,000 
in 2008 to approximately 21,000 in 2009.

Employee networks are groups of employ-
ees focused on dimensions of diversity, 
such as gender, race, sexual orientation, 
age, disability and nationality. Networks 
are initiated by employees, are formally 
structured, and are aligned with Chevron’s 
diversity values and strategies. The net-
works are inclusive, and each is open to 
any employee who wants to support the 
network’s mission, vision and objectives.

34

Workforce Nationalization

Chevron has been operating in 
Colombia for more than 80 years  
and is the largest natural gas producer 
in the country, supplying 65 percent 
of the country’s natural gas needs. 
For gas production operations, more 
than 95 percent of the workforce is 
Colombian and includes workers from 
the Guajira region and nearby indig-
enous Wayúu communities.

In 2009, Chevron Colombia succeeded 
in having no motor vehicle crashes and 
no spills, and it also received a Zero Is 
Attainable award for its safety perform-
ance that year. Between 2004 and 
2009, Colombia had no Days Away From 
Work incidents.

Above: Gustavo Plata is an offshore 
operations engineer on the Chuchupa A 
gas platform.

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Engaging Employees

We engage with our employees through 
employee networks, town hall meetings, intra-
net communications, publications, an annual 
corporatewide teleconference with the chair-
man and periodic surveys. In 2009, several 
topical surveys on business strategy, program 
effectiveness, communications and other issues 
provided management with employee opinions.

Employees started and manage Chevron’s 
11 employee networks, which are open to 
any employee. The networks foster career 
development and often organize volunteer 
activities. In 2009, the XYZ (which addresses 
issues relevant to the X, Y and Z genera-
tions) and Boomers (which addresses issues 
relevant to the Baby Boom generation) net-
works in Bakersfield, California, were asked to 
hold an ingenuity brainstorming session with 
business leaders. Topics were sustainability 
and adding business value as the company 

plans for compliance with California’s climate 
change legislation.

The group leveraged their diverse backgrounds 
and practical work experience to provide fresh 
perspectives on reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions in the area’s Upstream operations. 
From the hundreds of ideas generated, some 
key proposals were to consider a Lean Sigma 
statistical analysis tool to improve energy 
efficiency and steam management, alterna-
tive energy technologies to increase steam 
generation efficiency, and a regional mass 
transit option for employee travel to multiple 
field locations.

Chevron scientist Susann Nordrum said, 
“What struck me most was that the perspec-
tives of geologists and reservoir engineers 
were really different from the typical chemical 
and mechanical engineering approach.”

Total Recordable Incident Rate 1
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Lost-Time Incident Frequency 1
Incidents per million work hours

Days Away From Work Rate 1
Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Year	

09
  Workforce 
0.41	 0.42	 0.35	 0.36	 0.27
  Benchmark  0.84	 0.59	 0.56	 0.55  N/a

05	

08	

06	

07	

Year	

09
  Workforce 
0.60	 0.50	 0.37	 0.27	 0.25
  Benchmark  0.78	 0.72	 0.65	 0.64  N/a

06	

05	

07	

08	

Year	

09
  Workforce 
0.12	 0.09	 0.07	 0.05	 0.05
  Benchmark  0.15	 0.14	 0.13	 0.12  N/a

08	

05	

07	

06	

Employees  0.38	 0.34	 0.40	 0.31	 0.32
Benchmark  0.61	 0.51	 0.49	 0.47  N/a

Employees  0.84	 0.41	 0.48	 0.33	 0.33
Benchmark  0.77	 0.64	 0.57	 0.57  N/a

Employees  0.16	 0.08	 0.09	 0.07	 0.07
Benchmark  0.15	 0.13	 0.11	 0.11  N/a

Contractors  0.42	 0.46	 0.34	 0.37	 0.26
Benchmark  0.67	 0.64	 0.61	 0.59  N/a

Contractors  0.49	 0.53	 0.33	 0.25	 0.23
Benchmark  0.79	 0.78	 0.71	 0.67  N/a

Contractors  0.10	 0.10	 0.06	 0.05	 0.04
Benchmark  0.15	 0.15	 0.14	 0.13  N/a

Work-Related Fatalities

Global Diversity

YEAR 
Women in total workforce 
Women represented at midlevel and above 
Women and non-Caucasian men represented at senior executive level 

08 
22.7% 
11.5% 
24.8% 

09
22.9%
11.7%
26.5%

Global Workforce at Year-End 2009
Geographic breakdown

Year	

  Workforce 
Employees 
Contractors 

05	
6	
2	
4	

06	
12	
1	
11	

07	
17	
3	
14	

08	
5	
0	
5	

09
9
0
9

Motor Vehicle Safety
Company motor vehicle incidents per 
million miles driven

2009

2008

2007

2006

0.74

0.75

0.82

0.82

Data include catastrophic, major and serious 
incidents.

  North America  
  47.9% 

  Asia-Pacific  
  26.6%

  Africa  
  13.8%

   Europe/Middle East 
8.4%

   South America 
3.3%

At year-end 2009, Chevron’s world-
wide staffing was 59,963 (excluding 
approximately 4,200 service station 
employees). This represents a 
decrease of 2.66 percent over the 
previous year. U.S. workers num-
bered 27,948, and approximately 
14.3 percent were represented 
by unions.

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics

Year	
Minorities among total employees 
Women among total employees 
Minorities among executives and senior managers 
Minorities among first- and midlevel managers 
Women among executives and senior managers 
Women among first- and midlevel managers 
Minorities among professionals 
Women among professionals 

07	
33.9% 
29.0% 
9.6% 
26.5% 
14.1% 
25.6% 
29.1% 
32.0% 

08	
35.3%	
29.2%	
11.0%	
26.9%	
15.0%	
24.7%	
30.6%	
32.4%	

09
34.9%
28.9%
11.2%
27.5%
14.4%
27.4%
31.4%
32.4%

1   American Petroleum Institute’s Benchmarking Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses, and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry data  

are used as industry benchmarks. 2009 benchmark data were not available at the time of publication.

35

	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
 
 
	
 
 
Workforce

The Young Mariners

Chevron operates one of the world’s most 
efficient shipping fleets while maintaining 
strong safety and environmental per-
formance. Knowing that a well-trained, 
experienced workforce is needed to 
sustain operational excellence, Chevron 
acted to increase the number of quali-
fied cadets coming into its workforce by 
building an oil tanker that is dedicated 
to training the next generation of ship 
officers and engineers. In 2007, Chevron 
commissioned the 800-foot-long (244-m) 
Capricorn Voyager, a vessel equipped with 
an extra deck that allows for the training 
of 12 cadets onboard.

When cadets join Chevron, they have 
already spent about three years in 
classes at a maritime academy. They 
then spend one year at sea either on the 
Capricorn Voyager or onboard another 
of Chevron’s vessels, learning both the 
theoretical and practical sides of vessel 
operations. While on the ship, cadets  
are involved in day-to-day operations, 
which include navigation, loading and 
unloading cargo, and maintenance  
and operations of the engine room and 
machinery. After passing required licens-
ing examinations, the cadets move up 
to either third mate or third assistant 
engineer, the initial classifications for 
licensed officers.

“We bring young men and women 
onboard who have limited practical expe-
rience at sea and put them in a position 
where they can become ship officers,” 
said Capricorn Voyager Captain Geoff 
Grannon, a seasoned mariner who first 
went to sea in 1972. “Three years ago, we 
had first-trip cadets on the ship. They’re 
sailing now on ships within the company 
as third mates and third engineers.”

These new officers enhance Chevron’s 
diverse mariner workforce, as more than 
80 cadets from 10 countries have partici-
pated in the program to date. Chevron 
attracts cadets from many different 
countries — Angola, Croatia, India, Ireland, 
Italy, the Philippines, Turkey and the 
United Kingdom, among others.

This diversity allows young officers in 
training to bring a fresh perspective to 
their shipboard roles, according to first 
mate Vivek Mathew, who has been sailing 
for 15 years: “The cadets often bring up 
valid points related to safety, and we 
modify our procedures for job-safety 
analysis and risk assessment based on 
their feedback.”

In addition to applying theoretical knowl-
edge to practical training, the cadets are 
immersed in Chevron’s safety culture. 

As with all Chevron operations, safety 
is a clear priority for all personnel. Even 
with a constant mix of inexperienced 
cadets and seasoned crew, the ship has 
operated since it began sailing in 2007 
without a recordable injury. “The safety 
culture onboard the Capricorn Voyager 
is something you don’t always see in 
other companies,” said deck cadet Sanjay 
Kumar from India, who recently finished 
his first year in the program. “I’m in con-
tact with my friends in different shipping 
companies, and it appears that our focus 
on safety is far, far ahead.”

The enthusiasm of the cadets is matched 
by that of the professional seafarers who 
work with the cadets when they become 
junior officers. “I’ve had feedback from 
chief engineers around the fleet on the 
qualifications of the cadets, and it’s been 
very good,” said Capricorn Voyager’s 
chief engineer Mike Packer. “The cadets 
are very prepared to take what they’ve 
learned and apply it as they continue with 
their careers.”

Above: Cadets in the training room on 
the Capricorn Voyager are (from left)
Smrati Bisen and Sanjay Kumar from 
India and Grant McPhail from the United 
Kingdom. Looking through the viewer is 
Smrati Bisen.

36

Procurement/Supply Chain
Building Capacity

One of Chevron’s most significant impacts on economic 
development is derived from efforts to build capacity in our 
suppliers and local workforces.

In 2009, we spent approximately $40 bil-
lion on goods and services from suppliers 
and contractors ranging from large multi-
nationals to locally based small and 
medium-sized business.

Through our Contractor Health, 
Environment and Safety Management 
(CHESM) process, we work with suppliers 
to increase accountability and continu-
ally improve their performance in these 
areas. Since 2005, our contractor Total 
Recordable Incident Rate was reduced 
by 38 percent, from 0.42 incident per 
200,000 work hours in 2005 to 0.26 in 
2009. Suppliers are selected for periodic 
audits based on a risk ranking deter-
mined by the nature of the work to be 
performed and responses to a question-
naire on supplier policies, processes and 
performance. The audits cover health, 
environmental and safety standards 
and compliance. For instance, contractor 
BBL Falcon Industries Ltd. earned a mid-
range score on our CHESM evaluation. 

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Supplier Engagement

Through our local content programs around 
the world, we engage suppliers to help build 
their capacity. Our Contractor Health, Envi-
ronment and Safety Management program 
and our programs for small, minority- and 
women-owned businesses help our contrac-
tors and suppliers achieve sustained growth 
and improved performance, which carries 
over into their work for other companies.

In October, Chevron hosted the 2009 
Supplier/Contractor Safety Forum in Houston, 
Texas. Attendees included senior execu-
tives from approximately 60 key contractor 
and supplier companies and more than 180 
business partners and Chevron managers. 
Speakers included executives from Chevron 
and supplier companies. The day comprised 
sharing practices and discussing what it 
takes to build and sustain a safety culture. 
The three key messages distilled from the 
forum were “make it personal, raise risk 
awareness and convey that safety is 24/7.”

With mentoring, guidance and assistance 
from Chevron, BBL Falcon increased its 
score to the top tier.

Local Content
In 2008, Chevron developed local content 
guidelines to promote sustainable, high-
quality local capacity and capability. In 
2009, the company launched a “community 
of practice” to enable Chevron’s local con-
tent specialists from around the world to 
share best practices and report outcomes.

In Kazakhstan, Chevron holds 50 percent 
ownership of Tengizchevroil LLP (TCO), 
which has continually improved its Kazakh 
supplier program. This improvement is evi-
dent in TCO’s strong local content spending 
in 2009 of $1.2 billion, or 51 percent of 
the amount spent with third parties. TCO 
continues to focus on building the capacity 
of potential and current suppliers. In 2009, 
614 Kazakh suppliers and 60 new suppliers 
were recommended for tenders. TCO held 
supplier development seminars, sponsored 
a database for local companies to market 
their services online to the oil and gas 
industry, and opened a vocational school 
in Kulsary to build local capacity in this 
industry. In addition, TCO used in-country 
engineering contractors for facilities and 
capital projects.

Our Frade deepwater development in 
Brazil, which began production in 2009, 
required construction of three support 
vessels. As local content is a key factor in 
any Chevron project, the ships were built in 
Brazil. One was built in Niterói, in the state 
of Rio de Janeiro, and the others were built 
in the state of Santa Catarina. Chevron is 
leading initiatives to enhance the exposure 
and the participation of local industry 
in Brazil.

Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL) works to estab-
lish self-sustainable Nigerian companies 
that can compete in Nigeria as well as 
in the global market. The CNL Nigerian 
content strategy includes preferential 
selection, facilitation, empowerment of 
local competencies, and research and 

Chevron committed $20 million 
over five years to establish a center 
of excellence in renewable power 
and energy efficiency at the Qatar 
Science and Technology Park in 
Doha. Opened in 2010, the Center 
for Sustainable Energy Efficiency 
will train Qatari engineers, scientists, 
and students in energy technologies 
that could work well in the region’s 
desert climate. Chevron brings its 
global expertise in energy efficiency 
and renewable power.

development. Building on this strategy 
promotes capacity building by sponsoring 
entrepreneurship courses in partnership 
with the Lagos Business School. Since the 
establishment of the supplier development 
program in Nigeria in 2006, more than 
500 contractor companies have benefited 
from these courses and training. In 2009, 
CNL adopted the Local Community Content 
Strategy and Guidelines with a focus on 
implementation, compliance and com-
munication, capacity building, and small 
business development. Leveraging these 
programs, Chevron replaced two interna-
tional vessels with two Nigerian flagged 
vessels that have Nigerian captains and 
crews. The new vessels are more efficient 
and reliable than the previous vessels, 
and have resulted in a cost savings of 
$600,000 per year.

The Gorgon Project in Western Australia 
is committed to maximizing indigenous 
participation through construction, and we 
seek to identify sustainable opportunities 

37

Procurement/Supply Chain

for participation in long-term operation. 
Chevron’s Australia business unit held a 
Meet the Supplier event to provide local 
indigenous businesses with an opportunity 
to present their products and services 
to Chevron’s supply chain personnel and 
prime contractors and to explore opportu-
nities on the Gorgon Project. Local Pilbara 
indigenous businesses, including logistic 
companies, catering services, media 
organizations, yard services and civil con-
tractors, exhibited at the event.

Supplier Diversity and Engagement
Our supplier diversity and small business 
programs add value to our core busi-
ness and help our partners grow. So that 
our supplier base reflects our customers 
and the markets we serve, our strategy 
includes utilization, training and educa-
tion, tracking, certification, and outreach. 
In 2009, Chevron spent approximately 
$2.7 billion on goods and services from 
small business concerns in the United 
States. We also spent $319 million with 
minority-owned businesses and $433 mil-
lion with women-owned businesses.

We entered into an agreement with 
Louisiana-based MBE Gulf 33 Valve Pros, 
Inc., in 2009 to perform valve maintenance 
for our Blind Faith operation offshore. 
Gulf 33 is minority-owned and has a strong 
focus on safety and service quality.

In 2009, we increased our strategic 
 sourcing that supports diverse businesses. 
Chevron entered into a master agreement 
with Cust-O-Fab, a minority-owned business 
in Tulsa, Oklahoma, for heat exchangers, 
critical equipment that involves high tem-
peratures and pressures for cooling fluids 
in Upstream and Downstream operations. 
This agreement applies to all business 
that is to be transacted across Chevron 
business units worldwide. Cust-O-Fab, 
which primarily has done work for our 
Downstream operations in North America, 
will gain access to international business 
opportunities across our global opera-
tions. This agreement gives the supplier 
greater responsibility for ensuring that 
engineering and fabrication meet our qual-
ity and reliability standards, for increasing 
standardization, and for reducing costs. 
Cust-O-Fab won the agreement on its mer-
its of quality and cost through a rigorously 
competitive process.

38

Health Training  
for Our Suppliers

Chevron takes an active role in its supplier relationships — often offering technical or 
health and safety training. In Houston, Texas, in March 2009, Chevron partnered with 
the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and other organ-
izations to sponsor a forum to provide education in health and in disease prevention 
to global supplier companies. Approximately 60 people from 23 companies attended. 
Additionally, Chevron is making its award-winning HIV/AIDS training available to sup-
pliers. The training helps managers and supervisors prepare for situations ranging 
from handling gossip to providing refrigeration for medications. Training for employ-
ees aims to destigmatize the disease by emphasizing Chevron’s belief that those 
infected with HIV/AIDS can remain productive members of the workforce.

Chevron Nigeria marked World AIDS Day by expanding its workplace-wellness 
program to local small and medium-sized businesses and nonprofit organizations, 
providing them with access to Chevron’s educational and clinical resources. One such 
group is the Lady Mechanics Foundation, which trains women in auto mechanics.

Above: Tania Barron (left), a presenter from Environmental Resources Management, 
speaks with colleague Marie Ekani and Chevron’s general manager of medical serv-
ices, Richard Wilkins, M.D., at the health-related supplier forum in Houston, Texas.

In South Africa, Chevron has been an 
active supporter of the country’s Black 
Economic Empowerment (BEE) pro-
gram, which is designed to address 
inequities of the past by providing 
black South Africans with broader and 
more meaningful participation in the 
national economy. A key component of 
this important government program is 
Preferential Procurement, which meas-
ures the extent to which companies buy 
goods and services from BEE-compliant 
suppliers and from black-owned compa-
nies. Chevron’s South African subsidiary, 
Chevron South Africa (Pty) Ltd., recently 
exceeded its goal of 50 percent of all 
nonhydrocarbon spending with qualified 
suppliers. Although Chevron is not listed 
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, 
this improvement on the Preferential 
Procurement score card and other key 
metrics raised the company’s current 
overall BEE rating to the equivalent of 
17 among the more than 400 publicly 
traded companies listed on that exchange. 
Chevron is now the top-rated publicly 

traded integrated oil company operating in 
South Africa.

Training, Education and Outreach
Chevron continues to be a sponsor 
of the University of California at Los 
Angeles Management Development for 
Entrepreneurs program. In 2009, we spon-
sored Outsource Consulting in Oakland, 
California, and Jackson Services in New 
Orleans, Louisiana, to attend the program.

Chevron sponsored two women for the 
Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC) 2009 Tuck-WBENC 
Executive Program, an intensive, five-day 
program to help WBENC-certified busi-
nesses that are beyond the startup phase 
to assess, improve and grow.

We track and measure our progress toward 
meeting diversity/small business targets, 
and we aim for continual improvement. We 
work with several certification programs to 
verify that businesses meet the criteria of 
ownership to qualify for our programs.

Human Rights
Our Commitment to Respecting Human Rights

Chevron’s commitment to respecting human rights is embodied 
in The Chevron Way. To further this commitment, we adopted a 
Human Rights Policy in 2009.

Human Rights Policy
Social issues are part of a broader set 
of complex socioeconomic and security 
concerns. Although governments have the 
primary duty to protect and ensure human 
rights, Chevron recognizes that it has a 
responsibility to respect human rights and 
can play a positive role in communities 
where we operate. Our policy addresses 
four human rights areas relevant to our 
business: employees, security providers, 
community engagement and suppliers. 
We believe this new policy will increase 
awareness and clarify expectations for 
our employees, promote consistent 
application of processes and tools, and 
deepen our capability to manage human 
rights issues.

All employees will be required to comply 
with the policy. Additional training will 
be developed for employees in operating 

environments where human rights issues 
may be more prevalent. Policy imple-
mentation will begin in 2010, and full 
implementation is expected by 2013. The 
new policy replaces our existing Human 
Rights Statement, deployed in 2006, 
and will become a standing corporate 
policy in our Business Conduct and Ethics 
(BC&E) Code. Our BC&E Code is available 
at Chevron.com/BusinessEthics.

Communities
Our respect for human rights also is 
expressed through engagement with 
the communities where we operate. Our 
programs that expand access to education, 
health care and economic development 
help empower individuals. We believe that 
our programs can have the multiplier effect 
of promoting respect for human rights 
and creating an enabling environment for 
stability and human progress.

Social Impact Assessment — Wheatstone Project

As part of its ESHIA process, Chevron 
is undertaking a comprehensive Social 
Impact Assessment for the Wheatstone 
Project. The assessment includes 20 
separate studies on any potential project 
impacts to the Onslow community and 
the broader Pilbara region. Approximately 
330 stakeholders were consulted, includ-
ing residents, government agencies, major  
industries, tourism operators, visitors, 
service providers and local businesses.

Approximately half of Onslow’s residents 
are Aboriginal, so a survey was designed 
in collaboration with key Aboriginal 
stakeholders. Five local Aboriginal people 
were trained to assist with research and 
individual interviews. Also, community 
members and schoolchildren were given 
cameras to document their concerns 
about impacts on their way of life. The 
data also will guide Chevron’s Aboriginal 
employment and training programs. 

Onslow residents discussed issues of 
general community concern, such as 
potential population change; employ-
ment; pressure on local services, 
especially health services; and exac-
erbation of existing social issues, 
such as alcohol misuse. Through the 
process, the community identified a 
range of responses to address their 
concerns. This information will be used 
to help develop the Wheatstone Social 
Investment Management Plan. Overall, 
those consulted were complimentary 
on how Chevron engaged them in the 
process and were positive about the 
project’s potential to enhance the pros-
perity of Onslow.

Feedback sessions on the assessment 
and environmental studies comple-
mented ongoing engagement through 
regular meetings, bulletins, briefings 
and media releases.

Chevron’s Social Impact Assessment, a 
proc ess applied to new capital projects, 
builds trust and collaboration with com-
munities. We partner with communities to 
develop measures that enhance project 
benefits and mitigate potential impacts on 
such issues as access to food, water and 
shelter; cultural practices and property; 
health; and social cohesion. Our assessment 
process is consistent with external guide-
lines, such as the International Finance 
Corp.’s Policy and Performance Standards 
on Social and Environmental Sustainability.

Voluntary Principles on  
Security and Human Rights (VPs)
Chevron continues to actively engage 
in the VP Plenary and is proud to be a 
founding member. In 2009, Chevron played 
a significant role in drafting a framework 
for expanding government participation 
and new guidelines to report implemen-
tation progress. Besides participating in 
the 2009 Plenary in Oslo, Chevron was 
invited by the VP Secretariat and the 
U.S. Department of State to serve as a 
workshop panelist on conducting VP risk 
assessments. Also, Chevron facilitated 
meetings in Indonesia and Bangladesh to 
help promote awareness of the VPs among 
government officials.

In 2008, we began implementing our 
Guidelines on the Voluntary Principles 
on Security and Human Rights. In 2009, 
Chevron and its security contractors con-
ducted VP awareness presentations and 
training with public and private security 
providers in many of the communities 
where we operate. Globally, more than 
1,870 private security providers and 500 
public security providers received training.

In 2009, we developed a standardized 
process to add VP language into private 
security contracts. We also reviewed the 
implementation of the VPs in our business 
units through our Security Management 
Review process, which includes a pro-
cedure for reporting findings to local 
management and developing improve-
ment plans.

39

Human Rights
Case Study: Myanmar

As one of four partners, a Chevron 
 sub sidiary has a nonoperating, minority 
interest in the Yadana gas field offshore 
Myanmar in the Andaman Sea and in a 
249-mile (401-km) natural gas pipeline.  
The Yadana Project is operated by Total,  
a French international energy company, 
and is helping meet the increasing  
demand for energy in Southeast Asia.

Myanmar is faced with many challenges. 
Chevron supports the efforts of the 
United Nations and the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations to constructively 
engage with the government of Myanmar 
to improve conditions in the country 
and enhance humanitarian efforts. As a 
responsible nonoperator, Chevron engaged 
Ibrahmi Gambari, the former U.N. special 
envoy to Myanmar, to encourage continued 
U.N.-government engagement.

The Yadana Project aims to play a con-
structive role in addressing Myanmar’s 
health and economic development chal-
lenges. The project helps build the capacity 
of the local workforce and provides 
employment to approximately 900 people, 
95 percent of whom are Myanmar nation-
als. The project initially invested $10 million 
in training for the local workforce, and 
the annual training budget is $800,000. 
The Yadana Project’s sustainable socio-
economic program contributes to positive 
change in the region and improves the lives 
of those living in the pipeline corridor.

Supporting Sustainability,  
Improving Lives
The Yadana Project funds programs to 
focus on health, education and training, 
economic development — loans to small 
businesses and agriculture and livestock 
programs — community development, 
and general infrastructure projects that 
 benefit the area.

Approximately 50,000 local residents 
along the Yadana pipeline and in 25  
nearby villages now have free, improved 
health care, as well as access to educa-
tion and economic support through the 
 community investment programs of the 
Yadana Project. 

Outside the project area, the Yadana 
Project engages at the national level. 
Total has shared best practices with other 

40

operators. Also, the project funds capacity 
building and other programs, which include 
HIV/AIDS treatment in Mandalay that cur-
rently provides anti-retroviral treatments 
to nearly 2,000 patients; a nationwide pro-
gram to prevent blindness, which funded 
more than 100,000 cataract operations 
since 2001; and support to public orphan-
ages that are home to 1,300 children in 
Yangon. Read about the programs at 
Burma.Total.com.

Along with partner funding, Chevron’s 
subsidiary independently funds a program 
outside the pipeline corridor, through 
contributions to Pact, a U.S.-based non-
governmental organization that has been 
providing health, microfinance and other 
programs in Myanmar for 10 years.

Third-Party Validation
Independent, third-party assessments  
of the Yadana pipeline region were con-
ducted by CDA Collaborative Learning 

Projects, a nonprofit organization based 
in Cambridge, Massachusetts; the most 
recent of five visits was in February 
2008. Based on CDA’s listening to the 
perspectives of a broad range of local 
stakeholders, these assessments found 
that people in the region of the Yadana 
Project feel that the consortium’s socio-
economic program has provided important 
benefits to the communities. The CDA 
assessments also noted opportunities 
for the Yadana Project to listen to stake-
holders and work with other companies to 
improve corporate practices in Myanmar. 
The detailed reports can be found at 
CDAinc.com/cep.

Commitment to Myanmar’s Future
Chevron continues to support the calls 
for a peaceful resolution to the issues 
facing Myanmar in a manner that respects 
human rights.

Below: Myanmar countryside.

StakeholDer	
eNGaGemeNt

Engaging in Human Rights

In 2009, to build upon our understanding of human rights issues in our operating areas, we 
engaged with a range of experts, including the United Nations Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General on business and human rights, the Institute for Human Rights and Business, 
The Fund for Peace, and the Danish Institute on Human Rights.

Together with the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association, 
Chevron organized and hosted a conference on human rights and the extractive industry in sub-
Saharan Africa. The conference convened in Cape Town, which enabled regional nongovernmental 
organizations, government officials and civil society to dialogue with us on collaborative solutions 
to business and human rights issues in the region.

Governance and Ethics
Conducting Business The Chevron Way

Governance
For Chevron, good corporate governance 
means being transparent with and respon-
sive to its stockholders while managing the 
company for long-term success. We com-
municate with our stockholders through 
reports, press releases and other formats. 
We meet frequently with stockholders to 
discuss governance, financial, environmen-
tal, social and policy issues. Stockholders 
can direct inquiries to the Board of 
Directors and submit proposals for inclu-
sion in our proxy statement. Since 2000, 
we have worked with proponents of more 
than 80 stockholder proposals submitted 
for inclusion in our proxy statement, result-
ing in the agreed-upon withdrawal of more 
than 25 percent of those proposals. During 
the 2010 proxy season, we received eight 
stockholder proposals covering a range 
of topics, including corporate governance, 
executive compensation, and social and 
environmental concerns.

Chevron’s commitment to good gover-
nance is seen in many other ways, too. 
All our directors stand for election each 
year; 12 of our 14 directors are nonemploy-
ees and independent; the board annually 
elects a chairperson; and we have a lead 
independent director. The past year, 
we added two new directors. Chevron’s 
restated certificate of incorporation and 
bylaws do not contain supermajority vote 
provisions. Stockholders have the right 
to call for special meetings and recom-
mend director candidates to the board. 
The board will reconsider any stockholder 
proposal that receives a majority of votes 
cast at the annual meeting. In addition, 
we adopted a policy of obtaining stock-
holder approval of any stockholder rights 
plan. More information can be found at 
Chevron.com/CorporateGovernance.

Lobbying
Chevron has a right and responsibility to 
advocate positions on proposed policies 
that will affect the company’s ability to 
meet the growing demand for energy. 
We lobby ethically, constructively and in 
a bipartisan manner through direct com-
munication with public officials. We also 
encourage our employees, retirees and 
others to communicate with officials when 
permitted by law. We comply with all reg-
istration and reporting regulations related 
to our lobbying activities.

Corporate Responsibility Management

Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors
This committee assists the Board of Directors in identifying, evaluating and monitoring public 
policy trends and social, political and environmental issues that could affect the corporation’s 
business activities and perform ance. It also reviews and makes recommendations for the 
corporation’s strategies related to corporate responsibility and reputation management.

Global Issues Committee
A cross-functional subcommittee of the Executive Committee, this com-
mittee oversees policy and strategy development on issues of worldwide 
strategic importance, including corporate responsibility strategy.

Vice President — Policy, 
Government and Public Affairs
Responsibilities include Community 
Engagement, Stakeholder Engagement 
and Human Rights.

Vice President — 
Health, Environment and Safety
Responsibilities include Safety, Climate, 
Remediation, Waste, and Emissions to Air 
and Water.

Among other responsibilities, the following managerial positions have specific areas of accountability.

Vice President, Human Resources: Workforce
Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer: Governance and Ethics
Chief Compliance Officer: Ethics
Director, Global Security: Security and Human Rights
Chief Procurement Officer: Supply Chain

Chevron is actively engaging the admin-
istration of U.S. President Obama and the 
U.S. Congress to provide perspective on 
the complexity of energy issues affecting 
the United States and the world. In 2009, 
our outreach included recommendations 
on policy matters regarding the economy, 
energy, climate change, international 
issues, education, and research and 
development. The goal is to help shape 
an effective and responsible U.S. energy 
policy. The recommendations include 
promoting energy efficiency and expand-
ing and diversifying the country’s energy 
portfolio.

2009 were approximately $2.52 million to 
support candidates and political organiza-
tions that foster economic development, 
free enterprise and good governance. 
Totals include contributions to support our 
views on local and state ballot measures. 
Chevron employees, through the Chevron 
Employees Political Action Committee 
(CEPAC), contributed $254,000 in 2009 
to the election of candidates from both 
parties for U.S. federal office, as well as to 
local and state candidates in certain U.S. 
jurisdictions. By policy, CEPAC does not 
contribute to presidential candidates or 
national political parties.

Political Contributions
Chevron has strict policies and internal 
approval processes so that decision making 
and reporting on political contributions 
comply with the letter and spirit of all 
applicable laws. Global contributions in 

A list of federal contributions that 
CEPAC made is on the U.S. Federal 
Election Commission Web site. Corporate 
political contributions made during the 
previous year are listed at Chevron.com
/PoliticalContributions.

41

Revenue Transparency
Revenue Transparency in Resource-Rich Countries

More than half of the world’s population 
lives in countries rich in crude oil, natural 
gas and minerals. These resource-rich 
countries have the ability to generate 
revenues to facilitate development and 
reduce poverty. Chevron believes that 
the disclosure of revenues received by 
governments and payments made by 
extractive industries to governments 
could lead to improved governance in 
resource-rich countries. The transparent 

and accurate accounting of these funds 
contributes to stable, long-term investment 
climates, economic growth and the well-
being of communities.

Our commitment to promoting revenue 
transparency is reflected in our participa-
tion in the multistakeholder Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). 
Chevron, which continues to support the 
efforts of the Oslo-based EITI Secretariat, 

was elected to serve as a full member 
of the EITI board in 2009. Twenty-nine 
countries are now undertaking EITI’s 
 external validation process over the 
next two years to ensure that they are 
implementing the program according to 
agreed-upon standards. Two countries, 
Azerbaijan and Liberia, achieved validation. 
Through EITI, Chevron is working with a 
number of these governments to promote 
implementation.

Performance Recognition  
A sampling of 2009 awards and recognition

Governance

Social and Economic Development

National Association 
of Corporate Direc-
tors’ Directorship 
magazine’s top 20 
ranking in “Best 
 Governed Companies 
in the Fortune 500”

Corporate Secretary 
magazine’s “Corporate 
Secretary of the Year” 
to Lydia Beebe

Dow Jones Sustain-
ability Index for North 
America, for the fifth 
consecutive year

Global Business 
Coalition on HIV/
AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria’s Leadership 
Award for “Excellence 
in Business Action”

Australia’s Equal 
 Opportunity for Women 
in the Workplace 
Agency “Employer of 
Choice for Women”

University of Texas 
at Austin’s Partner of 
the Year Award for 
“Equal Opportunity 
in Engineering”

Human Rights Cam-
paign Foundation’s 
100 percent rating on 
the Corporate Equality 
Index, for the fifth 
consecutive year

The American Chamber 
of Commerce honor  
for Chevron’s partner-
ship with the Eurasia 
Foundation of Central 
Asia to improve eco-
nomic opportunity for 
local artisans

Alfred P. Sloan Award 
for Business Excellence 
in Workplace Flexibility

Kazakhstan’s Paryz 
(“Responsibility”)  
Gold Award to Chevron 
partner  Tengizchevroil 
and Bronze Award 
to Chevron affili-
ate  Karachaganak 
 Petroleum Operating 
B.V., both for labor and 
social rights

Pennsylvania State 
University’s Society of 
Hispanic Professional 
Engineers’ Platinum 
Corporate Award

Philippine Quill Merit 
Award for Community 
Relations

Asian Forum on 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility’s 
 Excellence Award  
in the Poverty 
 Alleviation category

Indonesian Depart-
ment of Manpower 
and Transmigration’s 
Zero Accident Award 
to Chevron subsidiary 
PT Mandau Cipta 
Tenaga Nusantara

U.S. Chamber of 
 Commerce Business 
Civic Leadership 
Center’s Corporate 
Citizenship Partnership 
Award to Chevron and 
the Discovery  Channel 
Global Education 
Partnership

Women’s Business 
Enterprise National 
Council’s Top Corpora-
tions, for the seventh 
consecutive year (U.S.)

Indonesia’s BPMIGAS 
Career Development 
Monitoring Awards to 
PT. Chevron Pacific 
Indonesia (third con-
secutive award) and 
Chevron Indonesia Co.

Environment

Carbon Disclosure 
Project’s Leadership 
Index top score in the 
energy sector

Indonesian Ministry 
of Energy and Mineral 
Resources’ Aditama 
and Utama awards to 
Chevron Geothermal 
Indonesia and Chevron 
Geothermal Salak

Indonesian Ministry 
of the Environment’s 
Green Awards

Above: Chevron in Bangladesh is actively involved in improving educational opportunities for the communities near its three gas fields. In 2009, assistance to schools 
included funding 590 scholarships, a pre-primary program for 774 students in 26 informal schools, an endowment fund, and infrastructure support.

42

Assurance Statement

Scope of the Assurance

Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 
(LRQA) was engaged by Chevron U.S.A. 
Inc. to assure the reporting processes 
used in the creation of Chevron’s 2009 
Corporate Responsibility Report (“the 
Report”). The objectives of the review 
were to validate the integrity of Chevron’s 
reporting proc esses and to evaluate con-
sistency with the IPIECA/API Oil and Gas 
Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustain-
ability Reporting (April 2005). 

The LRQA scope of assurance was limited 
to processes for the reporting of health, 
environmental and safety (HES) per-
formance indicators. Verification of the 
accuracy of data and information was 
not included in the assurance scope. The 
Report has been prepared and approved 
by Chevron management, who are solely 
responsible for the collection, presentation, 
and accuracy of all data and information 
contained within it.

Approach

Our assurance approach was risk-based 
and undertaken as a sampling exercise. 
It covered the following activities:

•  Interviewing key personnel to identify 

and gain an understanding of Chevron’s 
reporting requirements.

•  Reviewing the documented reporting 

requirements to validate consistency of 
scope, definition and reporting for each 
of the HES performance indicators.

•  Reviewing the processes used at the 
corporate level to aggregate data 
and information for inclusion in the 
final report.

Conclusions and Findings

To form our conclusions, LRQA obtained 
sufficient evidence considered necessary 
for us to give limited, not absolute, assur-
ance, as data and information were not 
verified back to original sources. Based on 
the scope of the assurance and the data 
and information presented for review, 
LRQA believes that Chevron’s reporting 
process is effective in delivering HES indi-
cators for the purpose of evaluating and 
communicating corporate performance in 
these areas. 

Our other conclusions:

•  The methods used for calculating each 
HES performance metric are clearly 
defined and communicated. 

•  Chevron’s reporting requirements are 
understood and carried out. Data are 
collected at the business unit level, 
checked and aggregated into corpora-
tionwide metrics.

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing 
and updating reporting guidelines is 
clear, with improvement in methodology 
 regularly undertaken.

•  Sampling three business units to 

assess local understanding and imple-
mentation of Chevron’s HES reporting 
requirements.

Andrea Bockrath
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register 
Quality Assurance, Inc.
March 29, 2010

Third-Party Liability  LRQA, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and 
collectively, referred to in this clause as the “Lloyd’s Register Group.” The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall 
not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or 
howsoever provided unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this 
information or advice, and, in that case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

LRQA’s Competence and Independence  LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on a rigorous 
appraisal of their training, qualifications and experience. The team conducting the assurance of the Report was multidisciplinary and 
has been involved in assurance assessments from the outset of external verification of nonfinancial performance reports. LRQA’s 
internal systems have been designed to manage and review assurance and certification assessments. This involves independent review 
by senior management of the outcome derived from the process applied to the assurance of corporate reports.

Independence of LRQA From Chevron  LRQA and Chevron operate as discrete and independent legal entities. LRQA provides Chevron 
with third-party attestation assessment services to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 as well as certification assessment services to other 
ISO standards. The assurance, attestation and certification assessment services are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron. 

Conflict of Interest  LRQA is part of the Lloyd’s Register Group. Lloyd’s Register Group entities recognize that potential conflicts of 
interest may exist that could have an impact on its independent assurance and certification activities. Lloyd’s Register Group entities 
are committed to identifying and managing such conflicts so that they do not adversely affect its independence and impartiality. 
To protect the integrity, neither LRQA nor any other Lloyd’s Register Group entity will provide services that create a conflict and 
compromise the independence and impartiality of third-party assurance and certification. The Lloyd’s Register Group entities will 
never verify their own solutions to a customer’s problem. 

About This Report

This report covers 2009 data and activities. 
We also occasionally mention events that took 
place in early 2010 when they help provide a 
clearer picture of our performance. This report 
covers our owned or operated businesses and 
does not address the performance of our sup-
pliers, contractors or partners unless otherwise 
noted. All financial information is presented in 
U.S. dollars. Our previous report was pub-
lished in May 2009 and covers 2008 data 
and activities.

We continue to be informed by reporting 
frameworks and guidelines that include the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil 
and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting, published in 2005 by 
the International Petroleum Industry Environ-
mental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and 
the American Petroleum Institute (API). We 
included an index to help readers find informa-
tion corresponding to the GRI and API/IPIECA 
indicators (see page 44).

This report, previous editions of our report 
and additional information can be found at 
Chevron.com/CorporateResponsibility. We 
 welcome your comments and feedback.

Ms. Vanessa Totten
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
CRReport@chevron.com

Cautionary Statement 
Relevant to Forward-Looking Information

This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron Corpora-
tion contains forward-looking statements relating to the 
manner in which Chevron intends to conduct certain of its 
activities, based on management’s current plans and expec-
tations. These statements are not promises or guarantees 
of future conduct or policy and are subject to a variety of 
uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond 
our control.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including 
the development, implementation or continuation of any 
program, policy or initiative discussed to forecast in this 
report, may differ materially in the future. The statements 
of intention in this report speak only as of the date of this 
report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly update 
any statements in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms 
as “the company,” “the corporation,” “their,” “our,” “its,” 
“we,” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s 
consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken 
as a whole. All these terms are used for convenience only 
and are not intended as a precise description of any of the 
separate entities, each of which manages its own affairs.

43

GRI and API/IPIECA Index

This index refers to:

• 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version 3.0.

• American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 

Association (API/IPIECA) sustainability reporting indicators.

GrI

aPI/IPIeCa

Where	reported

Profile Disclosures

Strategy and Analysis

Organizational Profile

Report Parameters

1.1   1.2
2.1   2.2   2.3   2.41–2.91   2.10

Report Profile   3.1–3.4   

Governance, Commitments  
and Engagement

Report Scope and Boundary   3.5   3.6–3.8   3.9   3.10   3.11

GRI Content Index   3.12

Assurance   3.13
Governance   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.41–4.71   4.8   4.9   4.101
Commitments to External Initiatives   4.11   4.121   4.131   

SOC-6

Stakeholder Engagement   4.14   4.15–4.17

1, 2, 6–7, 41

2, 35, 42, 43

i, 43

i, 9, 18, 43

44

43

ii, 3–5, 41

2, 39, 42

2, 11, 13, 16, 20, 25, 
34, 37, 40

Economic

Economic Performance   EC1 2   EC2–EC52   

ECO-1 2   ECO-A1   ECO-2 2   ECO-A2 2   ECO-3 2    
ECO-A3 2

2, 8–15, 24 

Market Presence   EC6   EC7
Indirect Economic Impacts   EC84   EC94

SOC-A4

34, 39–40

37–38

Environmental

Materials   EN1   EN2
Energy   EN3   EN4   EN5 5   EN6 5   EN7 1, 5

Water   EN8   EN9   EN10
Biodiversity   EN11   EN12   EN13   EN14 6   EN15 6

ENV-5   ENV-A8

ENV-A7
ENV-A9 6

Emissions, Effluents and Waste   EN16   EN17   EN18   EN19    
EN20   EN21   EN22   EN23   EN24   EN25

ENV-1   ENV-A1   ENV-2   ENV-A2   ENV-3    
ENV-A3   ENV-4   ENV-A4   ENV-A5   ENV-A6

Social

Labor Practices and 
Decent Work

Products and Services   EN26   EN27   EN29

Compliance   EN28

Overall   EN30

Employment   LA1   LA2   LA3

Employee Satisfaction   
Labor/Management Relations   LA4 3   LA5

ENV-6

SOC-A3

SOC-A2

–

8–22 

20

16, 21 

8–22

8–22

22

21

35

–

35

Occupational Health and Safety   LA6   LA7   LA8   LA9

H&S-1   H&S-2   H&S-3   H&S-4

1, 24–27, 33–35

Human Rights

Investment and Procurement Practices   HR1   HR2   HR3

Training and Education   LA10   LA11   LA12
Diversity and Equal Opportunity   LA131   LA14

Nondiscrimination   HR4

Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining   HR5

Child Labor   HR6

Forced and Compulsory Labor   HR7

Security Practices   HR8

Indigenous Rights   HR9

Community   SO1
Corruption   SO2   SO33   SO4

Public Policy   SO5 7   SO6

Compliance   SOC7   SO8

Customer Health and Safety   PR1   PR5
Product and Service Labeling   PR38

Marketing Communications   PR6

Compliance   PR2   PR4   PR7   PR8   PR9

Key to Indicators:   
Fully reported in 2009    
Partially reported in 2009    
Not covered in 2009

Additional indicators in italics

Society

Product Responsibility

44

SOC-5

SOC-1
SOC-43 
SOC-73

SOC-9

SOC-A6

SOC-A4   SOC-A5   SOC-A7   SOC-8
SOC-23 

SOC-3   SOC-A1

H&S-5

34

35

16–17, 39–40

–

–

–

–

39

37–39

16–17, 24–31, 39

–

41 

–

21

21

–

–

Information responsive  
to these indicators  
appears on our Web sites:

 1  Chevron.com
 2  Chevron.com/AnnualReport
 3  Chevron.com/BusinessEthics
 4  Chevron.com/ca

 5  WillYouJoinUs.com
 6  Chevron.com/Biodiversity
 7  Chevron.com/EnergyPolicy
 8  Chevron.com/MSDS

 
  
 
 
Glossary

Bb
Barrels	of	oil-equivalent	(boe) A measure to 
 quantify crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural 
gas amounts using the same basis. Natural gas 
volumes are converted to barrels on the basis of 
energy content. 

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on Earth. 
It encompasses genera, species, habitats and eco-
systems, and the processes that support them. 

Biofuel Any fuel that is derived from biomass —  
recently living organisms or their metabolic 
by products — from sources such as farming,  
forestry, and biodegradable industrial and  
municipal waste.

Business	Conduct	and	ethics	Code Describes 
proper business conduct within Chevron and 
includes an overview of several of the most 
important laws and policies governing that con-
duct. All employees and board members must 
understand and comply with the code.

Cc
Capacity	building	A key area of focus for  
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which 
means targeting support toward programs that  
help individuals and institutions develop the skills, 
capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.

Carbon	sequestration Capturing and storing   
carbon dioxide in various ways, such as capture by 
vegetation or by injection into geologic formations 
for long-term storage, so that it does not enter or 
remain in the atmosphere as a greenhouse gas.

the	Chevron	Way Explains our values: who we are, 
what we do, what we believe and what we plan 
to accomplish. 

Dd
Downstream The industry term for operations 
related to refining crude oil into finished petroleum 
products; marketing crude oil and the many prod-
ucts derived from petroleum; and transporting crude 
oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline, 
marine vessel, motor equipment and rail car. 

ee
environmental,	Social	and	health	Impact	
assessment	(eShIa) A corporate standard proc-
ess that requires capital projects to be evaluated 
for potential environmental, social and health 
impacts and requires that appropriate  mitigation 
measures be developed. ESHIA improves decision 
making and incorporates stakeholder  engagement 
throughout the project’s life cycle. The process 
makes sure that project impacts are eliminated or 
mitigated and benefits are enhanced. ESHIA was 
adopted for deployment as a corporate standard in 
January 2007.

Ff
Flaring	and	venting The burning or release of 
 natural gas that is often produced in association 
with crude oil, a process that typically occurs when 
there is no market or onsite use for the gas.

Gg
Geothermal	energy A renewable source of energy 
that uses the heat energy of the Earth for heating 
or to create electricity.

Global	reporting	Initiative	(GrI) A multistakeholder 
process and independent institution whose mission 
is to develop and disseminate globally applicable 
sustainability reporting  guidelines. 

Greenhouse	gases	(GhGs) Gases that trap heat in 
the Earth’s atmosphere; such gases include water 
vapor, ozone, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, 
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur 
hexafluoride. 

Ii
ISo	14001:2004 Environmental management 
system standard developed by the International 
Organization for Standardization.

ll
liquefied	natural	gas	(lNG) Natural gas that is 
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to 
facilitate storage or transportation in specially 
designed vessels. 

mm
major	capital	project A project in which Chevron’s 
share of capital and exploratory expenses is  
$50 million or greater.

Nn
Nongovernmental	organization	(NGo) An organiza-
tion that is independent from government, generally 
a nonprofit organization devoted to providing assist-
ance to or advancing a particular cause or issue. 

oo
ohSaS	18001:2007 An international Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment Series management 
system specification. 

operating	company A major Chevron company 
organized for a specific business purpose. 

operational	excellence	management	System	
(oemS) Chevron’s standard approach to  systematic 
management of safety, health, the environment, 
 reliability and efficiency in order to achieve world-
class performance. 

Pp
Partner In this report, partner is used in its broad 
sense to mean a person or organization associ-
ated with another in a common activity or one 
that shares a mutual interest. It does not imply a 
member of a contractual partnership in which the 
partners jointly own and carry on a business and 
proportionally share in liabilities, profits or losses  
of the business. 

Production Total production refers to all the crude 
oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas produced 
from a property. Gross production is the company’s 
share of total production before deducting royalties. 
Net production is gross  production minus royalties 
paid to landowners. 

rr
renewable	energy Energy resources that are  
not depleted when consumed or converted into 
other forms of energy (for example, solar, geother-
mal, ocean and tide, wind, hydroelectric power,  
and biofuels). 

reserves Crude oil, natural gas liquids or natural 
gas contained in underground rock formations 
called reservoirs. Proved reserves are the estimated 
quantities that geologic and engineering data dem-
onstrate can be produced with reasonable certainty 
from known reservoirs under existing economic and 
operating conditions. Estimates change as additional 
information becomes available. 

revenue	transparency Refers to the practice of 
disclosing certain financial arrangements related 
to energy industry operations by industry and 
host governments. 

Capacity	Building
A community leader in a small fishing  
village near Soyo, Angola, is consulted  
before project implementation.

Ss
Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who 
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate interest 
in our company’s performance. 

tt
transparency Making relevant and accurate 
 information available to those with a legitimate 
interest in the organization. 

Uu
Upstream The industry term for operations related 
to exploring for, developing and producing crude oil 
and natural gas and for marketing natural gas.

Vv
Voluntary	Principles	on	Security	and	human	rights 
Principles developed by extractive-sector companies, 
human rights organizations, a trade union, and the 
U.S. and U.K. governments to guide companies in 
maintaining the safety and security of their opera-
tions within a framework that ensures respect for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms.

PHOTO CREDITS: Cover: Graham Kietzmann/Planet KB. Page 1: Roy Cobilla. Page 2 (from left) Kev Robertson; Chris Martin; John Smallwood; Daniel Esgro; Andrew Molymeux; Mike Goldwater. Page 3: 
Eric Myer. Page 4 (from left): unknown employee; Laura Smith. Page 5 (clockwise, from left): Febri Ferdian; Maura Warnecke; Jim Hendon; Narius Santa Maria; Paul S. Howell. Page 8: Peter Cannon/
GEOmedia. Page 12: Tantyo Bangun. Page 13: Nancy Dunham. Page 14: Marilyn Hulbert. Page 15: Alicia Wszelaki. Page 16: Russ Weller/Ball Advertising. Page 17: Stephanie Whitfield. Page 19: Somchai 
Suravit. Page 20: Jennifer Liebeler Michael. Page 21: Robert Garvey/BKAYDesign. Page 22 (from left): Alan Abel; Warren Klein. Page 23: Divaldo Gregorio. Page 24: Mikel Flamm. Page 25: (top) Tim 
Brandenburg; (bottom) Pradonggo. Page 26: Michael Ramsey/Spoken Image. Page 27: Marilyn Hulbert. Page 29: (top) Marilyn Hulbert; (bottom) Mikel Flamm. Page 30: Marilyn Hulbert. Page 31: 
Divaldo Gregorio. Page 32: Trukhin Georgy. Page 33: Paul S. Howell. Page 34: Peter Cannon/GEOmedia. Page 36: Chuck Gathard. Page 37: Courtesy of Qatar Science and Technology Park. Page 38: 
Tory Field. Page 40: unknown employee. Page 42: Murad Ahmed. Inside Back Cover: Lisa Takagi. 

 Learn more online 
The Annual Report, the Supplement to the Annual 
Report and the Corporate Responsibility Report are 
available on the Internet at Chevron.com/Publications.

C
H
E
V
R
O
N

C
O
R
P
O
R
A
T

I

O
N

2
0
0
9

A
N
N
U
A
L

R
E
P
O
R
T

2009 Annual Report

 2009 Supplement 
to the Annual Report

Chevron Corporation 

6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA 

www.chevron.com

Recycled Recyclable

91 2- 0953

2009 Annual Report

2009 Supplement to the Annual Report

2009 Corporate Responsibility Report

The Value
of Partnership

2009 Corporate Responsibility Report

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA  94583-2324
www.chevron.com

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–
certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent 
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental 
chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar 
panels are expected to offset the company’s energy 
demands by 30 percent.

Design: Sequel Studio, New York

© 2010 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.

913-0386G	5/10

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
