212363A4_CVR_K  20/4/06  7:23 pm  Page 1

Corporate Responsibility Report 2005

212363A4_CVR_K  20/4/06  7:23 pm  Page 2

A view of the Pascagoula, Mississippi, refinery six months after hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the U.S. Gulf Coast.

Front cover, right More than 120 Indonesian youth from Aceh and Nias – areas devastated by the December 2004
tsunami – received training sponsored by Chevron to learn vocational skills that they will use in reconstruction 
efforts. The training was held at Politeknik Caltex Riau, the company-funded, first-ever polytechnic university in
central Sumatra, whose classes began in 2001 in such fields as telecommunications, electronic engineering, computer
science and, recently, robotics. Front cover, left During construction of the Benguela Belize compliant piled tower and
topsides, installed offshore Angola, Chevron successfully managed the engineering challenges within budget, ahead 
of schedule and in a safe manner. This is the first compliant piled tower to be installed outside the U.S. Gulf of Mexico
and is one of the tallest structures in the world. The tower and topsides were built in Angola, South Korea and the
United States. In December 2005, the Offshore Energy Association awarded it Project of the Year. 

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 1

Welcome

This Corporate Responsibility Report describes Chevron’s performance
during 2005 in the eight priority areas we identified and covered in our
2004 report. The report contains our most recent annual performance
data as well as descriptions of new and ongoing initiatives in a range of
socioeconomic and environmental areas. Together, they provide a picture
of how the vision, values and strategies described in The Chevron Way
guide our business success.

Additional information can be found on the corporate responsibility
section of our Web site [1]. The three previous editions of our corporate
responsibility report are also available on the site.

We welcome your comments and feedback, which may be directed to
CRReport@chevron.com.

Overview

1 Welcome

Priorities, Progress and Plans

Case Study

10 Summary of Priorities, Progress and Plans

27 Chevron’s Response to the U.S. Gulf 

2 A Message From Our CEO

12 Integration

3 Chevron at a Glance

14 Stakeholder Consultation 

4 Performance Overview

16 Community Engagement

6 A World-Class Workforce

18 Human Rights

8 The Chevron Way and

Corporate Responsibility

19 HIV/AIDS

20 Health and Safety

22 Environmental Management

24 Climate Change, Energy Efficiency 

and Renewables

Coast Hurricanes

–After the Asian Tsunami: Chevron’s

Commitment to Recovery and Rebuilding

32 About This Report

32 Glossary

IBC GRI and API/IPIECA Index

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/

1

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 2

A Message From Our CEO

In 2005, the people of Chevron were tested by multiple
hurricanes and the challenge of a major acquisition, yet 
we delivered world-class performance across our business. 
That performance reflected an enduring commitment to 
our employees, customers, stockholders, partners and the
communities in which we operate. 

Dave O’Reilly, Chairman and CEO of 
Chevron Corporation. 

I am particularly proud of the men 
and women of Chevron who showed
tremendous courage and commitment 
in their response to last year’s natural
disasters when many of them, like so
many others, lost everything.

At the core of our corporate responsibility
performance are the company’s ongoing
business investments to develop
affordable, reliable energy supplies in a
safe, environmentally responsible way.
Highlights of our business performance
are included in our 2005 Annual Report,
titled Human Energy. We leverage those
investments in a manner intended to
create social and economic value in the
communities and countries where we do
business. Our progress in doing that – and
areas for improvement – are highlighted
in this report and on our Web site [ 1].

We made progress in a number of areas.
Among our accomplishments were our
safest year ever; a relaunch of The
Chevron Way, our statement of values
that drive all our actions and business
decisions; deployment of a global HIV/AIDS
policy; the development of a Human
Rights Statement; and meeting our goal
for greenhouse gas emissions. We’re
particularly pleased to note that Lloyd’s
Register Quality Assurance determined
that our management system for
operational excellence in health, safety

and the environment met or exceeded
the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001
international standards. 

Going forward, we will continue to focus
on areas of improvement, with safe and
reliable operations being foremost among
them. We deeply regret that six people
died in 2005 working on behalf of Chevron.
We will not rest until we achieve our goal
of zero injuries across the company. 
We also recognize and share the concerns
of governments and the public about
climate change, and we will continue to
implement the climate change strategy
we developed four years ago. Human 
and institutional capacity building will
remain at the center of our community
engagement programs. Other areas of
focus include global implementation of
our HIV/AIDS policy and the deployment 
of our new Human Rights Statement.

The past year was one of great change 
in the energy industry. Growing demand,
difficult-to-access resources and complex
operating environments make delivering
reliable, affordable energy one of the
biggest challenges we face as an industry
and as a global community. As part of 
a continuing dialogue on this dynamic
energy future, we launched a unique
corporate advertising campaign. 
It includes an interactive forum at
www.willyoujoinus.com to encourage a

global conversation about the critical
issues that will shape the future of
energy, such as the development of new
energy sources and energy conservation.
Since its launch in September 2005,
several hundred thousand people from
170 countries have visited the site. 

We believe dialogue of this kind is the first
step on the path toward real solutions.
But, ultimately, the creation of a secure
energy future will require responsible,
informed leadership from everyone in the
energy value chain – producing countries,
consuming countries, energy companies,
policy makers and communities. This
leadership must be rooted in action. 
We stand ready to work with our
stakeholders to build that future.

The success of our business rests on the
confidence and trust put into our company
by employees, stockholders, business
partners and communities. The corporate
responsibility efforts detailed in this
report are focused on contributing to 
and enhancing that trust. We hope you’ll
find it informative and useful. 

Sincerely,

Dave O’Reilly

2

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 3

Chevron at a Glance

Caltex™ service station, Singapore.

At the Hawaii Refinery and across the company, a main tenet of operation is “Do it safely or not at all.”

Overview
Chevron is the fifth-largest integrated
energy company in the world, measured
by market capitalization. Headquartered
in San Ramon, California, and conducting
business in approximately 180 countries,
we are engaged in every aspect of the 
oil and natural gas industry, including
exploration and production; refining,
marketing and transportation; chemicals
manufacturing and sales; and power
generation. Chevron has a diverse,
multicultural workforce of more than
53,000 employees whose experience,
talent and creativity enable the company
to achieve and sustain world-class
performance.

Chevron’s acquisition of Unocal
Corporation in August 2005
complemented our existing upstream
positions in key strategic regions,
including Southeast Asia, the Caspian
and the deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico.

In 2005, we produced an average of 
more than 2.5 million barrels per day 
of crude oil and oil-equivalent, with
approximately 70 percent of the
production occurring outside the United
States in more than 20 different countries.

Upstream
Major producing areas include Angola,
Australia, Canada, Indonesia, Kazakhstan,
Nigeria, the Partitioned Neutral Zone
(between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait), Thailand,
the United Kingdom, the United States and
Venezuela. Major exploration areas include
Angola, Australia, Nigeria, the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico, Thailand and the Gulf of Thailand.

Chevron holds vast natural gas resources 
in some of the world’s most prolific basins,
including Australia, where we are the largest
holder of undeveloped natural gas resources.
Plans are under way to commercialize these
resources through liquefied natural gas and
gas-to-liquids technologies.

Downstream
With 20 wholly owned and affiliated
refineries, Chevron processed approximately
1.9 million barrels of crude oil per day 
in 2005 and averaged approximately 
3.8 million barrels per day of refined
products sales worldwide. Strategic focus
areas are Asia, the West and Gulf coasts 
of North America, Latin America and 
sub-Saharan Africa. Worldwide, we market
products under the Chevron, Texaco and
Caltex motor fuel brands. Our products are 
sold through a network of approximately 
26,500 retail outlets, including those 
of affiliated companies.

Other Businesses
Our businesses extend beyond production,
exploration, refining, marketing and
transportation and include:

(cid:2) Chevron Energy Solutions Company,
which helps businesses and public
institutions conserve energy and
develop renewable and conventional
power projects.

(cid:2) Chevron’s geothermal business, which
develops and produces geothermal
energy in various countries. Chevron 
has developed more than a quarter 
of the world’s geothermal energy 
and is currently the world’s largest
geothermal energy producer.

(cid:2) Chevron Global Power Generation, which
develops and markets commercial power
projects worldwide.

(cid:2) Chevron Technology Ventures LLC, which
develops and commercializes emerging
technologies and new energy systems.

(cid:2) Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC,

one of the leading manufacturers of
commodity petrochemicals. Chevron
owns 50 percent of the company.

(cid:2) Chevron Oronite Company LLC, which
markets more than 500 performance-
enhancing products and supplies 
one-fourth of the world’s fuel and
lubricant additives.

Chevron is a publicly traded company listed
on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Pacific Exchange. More information on our
structure, operations and brands can be
found on our Web site [2]. 

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/
[2] www.chevron.com/about/

www.chevron.com/operations/
www.chevron.com/brands/

3

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 4

Performance Overview

Key Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators 
[Goals, shown in brackets, were established prior to Chevron’s acquisition of Unocal]

2004

2005

Change over 
the year

Socioeconomic

Fatalities (workforce)

Days Away From Work Rate (workforce)

Total Recordable Incident Rate (workforce)

Employee Motor Vehicle Incidents (per million miles driven)

Percent of female and non-Caucasian males at the senior-executive level worldwide

Percent of females at midlevel positions and above worldwide

Total corporatewide spending in community investment (US$ million)

Environmental

Number of petroleum spills

Volume of petroleum spills (barrels)

Global SOx emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Global NOx emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Global VOC emissions (thousands of metric tons)

Number of environmental, health and safety fines and settlements

Total GHG emissions (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent)

GHG emissions from flaring and venting (millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent) 

Total energy use (trillions of Btu)

Energy efficiency (Chevron Energy Index)

17

6 [0]

0.18

0.12 [0.14]

0.51 0.41 [0.40]

3.01

20.8

9.9

63.8

986

15,514

133

114

427

469

3.65

19.4

10.0

73.1

846

47,934

119

122

469

577

60.7 59.7 [61.5]

14.9

873

76

14.8

853

76

-11

-33%

-20%

21%

-7%

1%

15%

-14%

209%

-1 1%

7%

10%

23%

-2%

-1%

-2%

0%

(cid:3)

(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)

NOx (nitrogen oxides)  SOx (sulfur oxides)  VOCs (volatile organic compounds)

Area of improvement

Area of decline

(cid:3)

Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline

The following are capsule summaries of
achievements and events we have identified
as significant to our corporate responsibility
performance in 2005 and challenges we
face in 2006 and beyond.

Response to Natural Disasters 
We provided immediate and long-term
response and assistance to communities
affected by such natural disasters as
hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf Coast and 
in Central America and the Caribbean; the
tsunami in South Asia; and the earthquake
in Pakistan. Along the Gulf Coast, we safely
evacuated all offshore employees and
contractors, encouraged those working
onshore to evacuate to safe locations, 
and shut down and secured onshore and
offshore facilities. We pledged immediate
relief and supported short-term recovery
efforts, including $8 million in contributions
to relief agencies and nearly $9 million in
grants and loans to employees.

Management Systems 
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance reviewed
our Operational Excellence Management
System (OEMS) and concluded that “the
design of OEMS fully addresses, and in some

respects goes beyond, the requirements 
of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.” These 
are leading international standards for
environmental management, and health and
safety management. We also made progress
on developing global standards in select
areas to make sure OE expectations are 
met across the company. One example is 
the Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) newly developed by 
our international upstream organization 
for major capital projects.

Human Rights 
We approved a Human Rights Statement in
early 2006. Grounded in The Chevron Way,
it makes clear our commitment to human
rights, provides guidance to employees 
and acts as a framework for constructive
dialogue. Deployment will begin in 2006.

Challenging Situations 
Together with others, we continue to seek
constructive solutions to the complex issues
we face in countries where we operate. 
In the Niger Delta, Chevron Nigeria Limited
(CNL) began working with multistakeholder
Regional Development Councils that will
design and implement their own community

development projects. Like many other
companies that operate in the Delta and
whose employees live there, CNL also has
been affected by the violence in the region.
A serious incident involving a nonworkforce
fatality occurred at CNL’s Escravos facility 
in February 2005.

Revenue Transparency 
We began participating in the newly
established International Advisory Group, 
a panel of representatives from across
sectors who are working to internationalize
the scope of the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative. We also engaged
with the government of Kazakhstan in its
endorsement of the initiative.

Renewable Energy 
With the acquisition of Unocal, we are now 
the largest renewable energy producer
among global oil and gas companies. 
We produce 1,152 megawatts of renewable
energy, primarily from geothermal sources 
(1,150 megawatts). In 2005, operation of these
geothermal assets avoided the generation
of 1.88 million tons of greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions (CO2 equivalent) compared with
conventional coal-fired operations.

4

(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 5

Financial Highlights
US$ million, except per-share amounts

Net income

Sales and operating revenue

Capital exploratory expenditures

Total assets at year-end

Felicia Hernandez is an employee at a Texaco™
station in Lake Jackson, Texas, United States.

2004

2005

Operating Highlights

2004

2005

$13,328

$14,099 

$150,865

$193,641

$8,315

$11,063

$93,208 $125,833

Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids
(thousands of barrels per day)

Net production of natural gas 
(millions of cubic feet per day)

Net oil-equivalent production
(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day)

Total debt and capital lease obligations at year-end

$11,272

$12,870

Stockholder equity at year-end

$45,230

$62,676

Refinery input (thousands of barrels per day)

Per-share data

– Net income – diluted

– Cash dividends

– Common stock price at year-end

Return on capital employed

Return on stockholders’ equity

Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio

Tax expense

– U.S. income taxes

– International income taxes

– Income taxes on discontinued operations

– Taxes other than on income

Research and development

Stock repurchases

$6.28

$1.53

$52.51

25.8%

32.7%

19.9%

$2,301

$5,216

$100

$6.54

$1.75

$56.77

21.9%

26.1%

17%

$2,435

$8,663

$0

Sales of refined products (thousands of barrels per day)

Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate 
and natural gas liquids (millions of barrels)

– Consolidated companies

– Affiliated companies

Net proved reserves of natural gas 
(billions of cubic feet)

– Consolidated companies

– Affiliated companies

Net proved oil-equivalent reserves (millions of barrels)

– Consolidated companies

– Affiliated companies

$19,821

$20,782

Number of employees at year-end

$242

$316

Total payroll (millions of dollars)

$2,100

$3,000

Employee benefit costs (millions of dollars)

1,850

1,812

3,958

4,233

2,509

2,517

1,958

3,908

1,883

3,768

5,511

2,462

5,626

2,374

16,128

3,547

20,466

2,968

8,199

3,053

9,037

2,869

47,265

1

53,440

2

$2,858

$1,386

$3,151

$1,777

1 Excludes approximately 9,600 service station employees
2Excludes approximately 6,000 service station employees

Performance Recognition
During 2005, several independent
organizations recognized Chevron for 
our practices and performance.

Chevron was included in the newly launched
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for North
America and for the United States, which
evaluate the top 20 percent of each
industry sector in terms of economic,
environmental and social criteria. The
indexes were compiled by SAM Group
(Sustainable Asset Management), which
analyzed 600 companies using an approach
that considers such issues as corporate
governance, climate change, supply chain
standards, human capital development 
and labor practices.

For the second consecutive year, the
Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Climate
Leadership Index ranked Chevron in the top

five of all global energy companies. 
The CDP is sponsored by 155 institutional
investors with a combined $21 trillion in
assets. It recognizes best-in-class
companies according to management
structure, climate strategy and capabilities.

Chevron placed in the top quartile of the
Goldman Sachs Environment, Social and
Governance Index, which ranks energy
companies for environmental and social
performance and overall management
quality. The ranking, announced in 2005, 
is based on 2004 data.

The Human Rights Campaign recognized
Chevron for earning a perfect score on 
its 2005 Corporate Equality Index. The
index is a tool to measure how equitably
companies are treating their gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender employees,
consumers and investors.

Flaring 
The Sanha Condensate Project, which
became operational in 2005 in Angola,
addresses the largest single source of flaring
from our operations. It will reduce our 
flaring and venting, cutting GHG emissions
by more than 2 million tons per year. We also
established an environmental performance
standard to ensure operational excellence 
in the management of upstream flaring and
venting across all operations outside North
America. The standard, which is aligned with
international best practices, will help lower
our greenhouse gas emissions.

Global Supplier Development 
During 2005, we increased spending 
with small businesses to $1.8 billion, 
or 27.5 percent of total U.S. domestic
expenditures. This increase from $1.4 billion
in 2004 reflects our commitment to build 
a supplier base that reflects the diversity 
of our customers, host communities and 
the markets we serve. Overall, we spent
approximately $20 billion globally on 
goods and services. To learn more about 
our global supplier development, please
visit our Web site [ 1]. 

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/stakeholder/

5

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 6

A World-Class Workforce

Chevron’s vision to be “the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership
and performance” guides us in creating an inclusive company culture that helps attract, retain
and inspire our diverse global workforce. More than any other asset, the creativity and talent
of our people enable the company to achieve and sustain world-class performance.

employees. At the senior-executive level,
women and non-Caucasian men held
approximately 19.4 percent of the positions
at the end of 2005, down from 20.8 percent
in 2004. We will continue to focus our
efforts on the global people strategies to
address our goal of increasing diversity at
the senior-executive level.

To succeed in diverse operating
environments, we need a skilled global
workforce who represent the communities
in which we operate and the markets we
serve. At the end of 2005, approximately
94.6 percent of Chevron’s employees were
working within their home countries. 

Employee Feedback
Several mechanisms exist for our employees
to provide their feedback to the company.
The Chevron Hotline is a 24-hour resource
available to employees to share their
concerns or report issues (see page 12).
Employees can also speak confidentially 
to a Chevron ombudsperson who provides
problem-solving assistance.

To assess our employees’ level of engagement,
as well as their perspectives of our overall
performance, we conduct a global employee
survey approximately every two years. 
The next survey is scheduled to take place 
in 2007. On a more frequent basis, we
conduct Pulse Surveys, which draw on a
representative sample or subset of employees
for feedback on a particular issue.

In 2005, we invited nearly 6,000 randomly
selected employees from around the world
to complete one such survey, which included
their views about working for Chevron. 
The overall response rate for the survey was 
65 percent. Results from this most recent
survey were compared with earlier results
from our 2004 Global Employee Survey 
and are presented in the table to the right.

Invest in People
Our Invest in People strategy, which builds 
on previous work, continued to be the focus
of our efforts in 2005. Its broad emphasis 
is on increasing the global nature and
nationalization of our workforce, building the
talent pool of our leadership worldwide, and
developing the core skills and competencies
of our employees. We believe that this
strategy will help us maintain and strengthen
the diverse workforce that has made us 
the partner of choice around the world. 

Metrics have been identified to track our
performance over time in achieving the
objectives of our strategy. For example, we
track our progress in increasing the diversity
of our total non-U.S. workforce who work
outside their countries of origin. We also
capture the percentage of senior-level
leaders who have completed assignments
outside their home countries. In addition, 
we evaluate the key drivers that lead to a
highly engaged workforce, whose level of
motivation and commitment to our business
is an important competitive advantage.

While developing a strategy and metrics 
to assess our progress are important, a
number of projects and initiatives are 
now under way to support our strategy. 

Examples include:

(cid:2) Implementing programs at the corporate
and business unit level to incorporate
staffing requirements into business
planning and capital budgeting in order 
to better forecast our short- and long-
term workforce needs.

(cid:2) Progressing on a talent sourcing initiative

to recruit from a wider range of
universities and colleges worldwide 
as well as to increase global hiring of
experienced people.

(cid:2) Creating new-leader development

programs across the company in addition
to supporting existing programs.

(cid:2) Continuing the Horizons and Chevron

Technical University training programs for
newly hired engineers and earth scientists.

In addition to the measurements described
above, we continue to track metrics that
reflect our efforts to increase the
representation of women and non-Caucasian
men in senior-level positions companywide.
At the end of 2005, women represented
approximately 21.1 percent of our total
global workforce. At midlevel and above,
women represented 9.8 percent of 

Global Workforce at Year-End 2005 – Geographic Breakdown

North America 45.7%

Asia-Pacific 25.6%

Africa 13.0%

Europe/Middle East 9.6%

South America 6.1%

At the end of 2005, our worldwide staffing was 53,440, excluding service station employees.
This represents an 11.6 percent increase in staffing from the previous year. The increase is 
due primarily to the addition of employees who joined the company as a result of the Unocal
acquisition. Unocal had approximately 6,300 employees prior to the acquisition, and about
5,800 continue to work for Chevron. At the end of 2005, approximately 700 employees were
granted or were to be granted severance packages, or otherwise had chosen to leave the
company. Approximately 17.2 percent of our U.S. workforce is represented by unions.

6

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:17 pm  Page 7

Right Fabio Teixeira in Lagos, Nigeria, is a member
of the XYZ Network, geared toward younger
employees. XYZ is one of 10 diverse, interregional
employee networks. Below Representatives from 
the San Ramon, California, XYZ Network meet with
group adviser Don Paul, Chevron vice president and
chief technology officer.

Employee Networks
As a way of supporting diversity and
fostering inclusion in the workplace,
Chevron has 10 officially recognized
employee networks; each is open to any
employee who wants to support its
mission. There are established networks
for women, Asian, Black, boomers, Filipino,
lesbian and gay, Hispanic, Native American,
and disabled employees. The XYZ Network
is geared specifically for younger-
generation employees.

Profile: XYZ Network’s Fabio Teixeira 
As a younger employee, Fabio Teixeira looks at
Chevron’s more seasoned employees and seeks
to someday attain their level of experience
and knowledge. Fabio’s interest in developing
his own career motivated him to get involved
in our XYZ Network, an organized group of
younger employees who network across
organizational boundaries to explore career
development opportunities. In 2005, the XYZ
Network hosted a Career Expo that featured
Chairman Dave O’Reilly as the keynote
speaker and offered a number of career
development workshops for participants.

Until his recent reassignment to Nigeria,
where he is the joint-venture planning
manager for the Nigeria/Mid-Africa
business unit, Fabio served as the
coordinator of the network’s Houston
branch, the largest of 15 XYZ sites across
the company. Now settled, Fabio has
reconnected with the company’s local XYZ
branch in Nigeria so that he can continue 
to achieve his own career goals and help 
his peers advance theirs. Worldwide, the
network has approximately 2,280 members.

Comparison Between Employee Surveys

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics

Employees rate their level of 
agreement with these statements

2004 Global 
Employee Survey 

2005 Employee 
Pulse Survey 

I believe strongly in the goals 
and objectives of Chevron.

I am proud to be a part of Chevron.

Chevron is a company that 
cares about the health and 
well-being of employees.

87%

87%

80%

91%

89%

83%

Minorities among total employees 

Women among total employees 

Minorities among officials and managers 

Women among officials and managers

Minorities among professionals 

Women among professionals 

2004

2005

34%

28%

23%

23%

24%

24%

31%

29%

20%

21%

24%

28%

We continued to post very positive results on most survey items compared
with norms identified by International Survey Research, a leading employee
research firm, for high-performing companies across all industries as well
as the oil and gas industry alone. The improvement was made in specific
targeted areas, and we will continue to concentrate our efforts on
engagement, retention and performance.

The decreases in percentages for 2005 are due to a number of factors,
including attrition and the inclusion of employees from Unocal, which had a
less diverse workforce. While our recruitment efforts have yielded positive
results, we have yet to achieve the diversity we seek in our workforce. We
will continue to pursue our current staffing initiatives to address this issue.

7

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 8

The Chevron Way and
Corporate Responsibility

The Chevron Way establishes a common understanding of our vision, values and strategy for
everyone who works at Chevron and for all who interact with us. It forms the core around
which our corporate responsibility priorities are integrated into our overall business. The first
priority, integration, refers to the use of our existing business systems, processes and policies
to effectively manage the other priority areas and drive measurable progress in each.

Integration

• Corporate Governance

• Strategic & Business
Planning Process

•BC&E Code1

• OEMS 2

Climate Change, 
Energy Efficiency
and Renewables 

Stakeholder
Consultation 

Environmental
Management

The Chevron Way
• Vision
• Values
• Strategy

Community
Engagement

Health and Safety

Human Rights

HIV/AIDS

1 BC&E Code – Business Conduct and Ethics Code
2OEMS – Operational Excellence Management System

The Chevron Way

Vision
At the heart of The Chevron Way is our
Vision... to be the global energy company
most admired for its people, partnership
and performance.

Values
Our company’s foundation is built on our
Values, which distinguish us and guide 
our actions. We conduct our business in 
a socially responsible and ethical manner.
We respect the law, support universal
human rights, protect the environment and
benefit the communities where we work.

These Values are: Integrity, Trust, Diversity,
Ingenuity, Partnership, Protecting People 
and the Environment, and High Performance.

Global Downstream: Improve returns 
by focusing on areas of market and 
supply strength.

Strategy
Our Strategic Plan translates our Vision 
into action. It aligns and integrates our
organization, inspires confidence and
differentiates us from the competition.

Major Business Strategies 
Global Upstream: Grow profitability in 
core areas and build new legacy positions. 
Global Gas: Commercialize our equity gas
resource base by targeting North American
and Asian markets. 

Enabling Strategies
Three enabling strategies apply to all 
parts of the company:
Invest in people to achieve our strategies.
Leverage technology to deliver superior
performance and growth.
Build organizational capability to deliver
world-class performance in operational
excellence, cost reduction, capital
stewardship and profitable growth.

To read more, please visit The Chevron 
Way Web site [ 1]. 

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/about/chevron_way/

8

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 9

Priorities, Progress and Plans 

This section describes our progress in eight priority areas we first identified
through internal and external consultation for the 2004 Corporate
Responsibility Report. These priorities, which reflect the core elements 
of our corporate responsibility framework, may change over time as our
business and business environment change.

Tengizchevroil is constructing new homes for families affected by a government-mandated move from
Sarykamys, Kazakhstan, a village south of the Tengiz Field. The relocation is being conducted according 
to World Bank guidelines. Chevron is a 50 percent partner in Tengizchevroil.

9

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 10

Summary of Priorities, 
Progress and Plans

PRIORITY AREA

Integration
Page 12

Stakeholder Consultation
Page 14

Community Engagement
Page 16

Human Rights
Page 18

HIV/AIDS
Page 19

Health and Safety
Page 20

WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO IN 2005

(cid:2) Conduct training with business units on the Corporate Responsibility (CR)

Expectations, beginning in 2005.

(cid:2) Continue to consult regularly with stakeholders on key issues at all

levels, as well as develop a more systematic approach to stakeholder
consultation at the corporate level.

(cid:2) Develop tools that will encourage a more consistent approach to

stakeholder consultation, where appropriate, across our businesses.

(cid:2) Continue annual CR reporting, with the goal of continual

improvement.

(cid:2) Continue deployment of our community engagement strategy; 

target an increased portion of our community investment toward
capacity building and economic development programs.

(cid:2) Initiate a plan to develop the additional internal capacity and

competencies to manage these programs.

(cid:2) Continue to explore mechanisms to monitor and measure the

execution and impact of these programs.

(cid:2) Complete consultation on our Human Rights Statement and training

materials with major business units.

(cid:2) Begin corporatewide deployment of the statement by early 2006.

(cid:2) Target completion of implementation of companywide, global HIV/AIDS

policy by the end of 2006. High-risk countries with high or rising
prevalence rates will be the initial implementation priorities.

(cid:2) Continue to focus on safety, aiming to meet short-term performance

targets and the long-term goal of zero incidents.

(cid:2) Expand our motor vehicle safety effort to look at opportunities to 

help address road safety more broadly in the communities in which 
we operate.

Environmental Management
Page 22

(cid:2) Implement our enhanced environmental expectations over the 

next five years, focusing on continued development of operating
standards, measuring and communicating performance, and
demonstrating continuous performance improvement.

Climate Change, Energy Efficiency 
and Renewables
Page 24

(cid:2) Continue implementation of climate change strategy, focusing on reducing
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and increasing energy efficiency.

(cid:2) Develop long-term GHG emissions forecast based on our portfolio and

business strategy; use forecast to develop longer-term emissions
management plan that aligns with our fourfold climate change strategy. 

(cid:2) Comply with the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; explore

development of projects under Clean Development Mechanism.

1010

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 11

WHAT WE DID IN 2005

WHAT WE PLAN TO DO NEXT

(cid:2) Updated The Chevron Way and printed it in 14 languages to make it easier 

(cid:2) Deploy a self-assessment process that business unit leaders

for our employees to apply our vision and values to their work.
(cid:2) Revised CR training and conducted peer review in early 2006.
(cid:2) Continued Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) training 

will use to assess their OEMS implementation against
expectations; this supplements corporate reviews.

(cid:2) Make CR training available to business units.

and certification.

(cid:2) Adopted a standard process for Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) for major, proposed international upstream projects.

(cid:2) Consulted with stakeholders at the local level and on global issues such as HIV/AIDS. 
(cid:2) Drafted and tested a stakeholder engagement guide.
(cid:2) Launched willyoujoinus.com to engage the public in a dialogue on the development

(cid:2) Continue regular stakeholder consultations on key issues. 
(cid:2) Make stakeholder engagement guide available to business units.
(cid:2) Participate in formulating IAG recommendations for presentation 

and supply of energy. 

(cid:2) Integrated stakeholder engagement into our new international upstream ESHIA process.
(cid:2) Participated in the International Advisory Group (IAG), to promote the Extractive

Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and supported the governments of
Kazakhstan and Nigeria on their efforts.

(cid:2) Published 2004 CR report.

(cid:2) Directed nearly 65 percent of our support toward creating economic growth

through human and institutional capacity building.

(cid:2) Provided relief and recovery assistance and support to communities affected
by the tsunami disaster in South Asia; hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf Coast 
and in Central America and the Caribbean; and the earthquake in Pakistan.

(cid:2) Established Regional Development Councils in the Niger Delta.

to the global EITI conference in late 2006 to promote wider
acceptance of EITI among resource-rich nations. 

(cid:2) Continue to improve annual CR reporting and align its

publication with Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 

(cid:2) Increase the portion of our community investment targeted

toward capacity building and economic development programs.

(cid:2) Continue to develop measurement tools that enable

evaluation of our community engagement efforts, including
engagement through the ESHIA process.

(cid:2) Continue to develop workshops and training to build the

capability to effectively implement our community
engagement strategy.

(cid:2) In early 2006 adopted a Human Rights Statement to provide guidance to

(cid:2) Develop practical training to support statement’s

employees and act as a framework for constructive dialogue with stakeholders.

deployment. The training will be designed to enhance
awareness of human rights and further explain Chevron’s
support for universal human rights. 

(cid:2) Launched a companywide, global HIV/AIDS policy, and in 2006 published

(cid:2) Develop action plans and timelines that will focus on the

HIV/AIDS policy on www.chevron.com.

(cid:2) Hired two employees dedicated to implementing the policy.
(cid:2) Appointed 33 regional coordinators who conducted local situation analyses.
(cid:2) Shared best practices internally.

HIV/AIDS-related needs of our local workforces.

(cid:2) Develop standardized training curricula for management

and employees, and develop principles for offering
HIV/AIDS testing and treatment to employees and their
dependents.

(cid:2) Achieved our safest year on record, as measured by workforce Total

Recordable Incident Rate.

(cid:2) There were six fatalities in 2005 compared with 17 in 2004.
(cid:2) Continued our focus on motor vehicle safety, expanding areas of focus 

and countries of implementation for Project Preserve.

(cid:2) Continue to focus on safety, aiming to meet short-term

performance targets and the long-term goal of zero incidents.

(cid:2) Approved an updated environmental strategy focused on world-class performance. 
(cid:2) Confirmed alignment of OEMS with leading standards for the environment 

(ISO 14001) and health and safety (OHSAS 18001).

(cid:2) Adopted international upstream standard processes for flaring and venting, 

as well as ESHIA for major capital projects.

(cid:2) Continue implementation of environmental expectations through
OEMS, including global collection of data on hazardous waste and
oil discharges to water.

(cid:2) Develop and deploy additional standards as needed.
(cid:2) Demonstrate continual improvement in environmental performance. 

(cid:2) Met our 2005 GHG emissions goal; established a 2006 goal.
(cid:2) Established carbon markets team to lead participation in carbon trading, 

(cid:2) Complete GHG emissions forecast.
(cid:2) Begin operation of the 110-megawatt Darajat Unit 3 geothermal

including Clean Development Mechanism.

(cid:2) Met our 2005 energy efficiency target, maintaining our highest-ever level 

of efficiency; established 2006 goal. 

(cid:2) Continued development of a long-term emissions forecast as the basis for

emissions management.

project in Indonesia; startup is scheduled for late 2006. 
(cid:2) Continue to install energy efficiency improvements and
alternative energy technologies at U.S. institutions and
businesses through Chevron Energy Solutions Company.

11

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 12

Integration
Integrating Corporate Responsibility Into Our Business

As populations increase and living standards rise, more energy is needed. Our role as a company
is to provide the clean, affordable energy needed to fuel economic growth around the world. 
At the same time, we recognize that supplying the energy for economic growth must take place
in a manner that is sustainable from an environmental and socioeconomic perspective.

The values described in The Chevron Way,
which include conducting our business 
“in a socially responsible and ethical
manner,” are essential to our thriving as a
business. We must be the partner of choice
for governments, communities and other
businesses. We must attract and retain
people with the ingenuity and insight to
tackle the tough issues we encounter. We
must protect people and the environment,
on which we all depend. These are among
the reasons corporate responsibility is
integrated into our business. 

At Chevron, corporate responsibility is
defined as:

(cid:2) Consistently applying our core values, 

set out in The Chevron Way.

(cid:2) Maximizing the positive impact of our 

operations on current and future 
generations.

(cid:2) Integrating social, environmental and 

economic considerations into our core 
practices.

(cid:2) Engaging with and balancing the needs 

of our key stakeholders.

Business Ethics
The Chevron Business Conduct and Ethics
Code (BC&E Code) outlines our policies 
on how we conduct ourselves and operate
around the world. In 2005, we completed 
a routine update of our BC&E Code to
ensure that it clearly conveys our principles
to our global workforce. The revised BC&E
Code was translated from English into 11
other languages and deployed throughout
the company on July 1, 2005. All Chevron
directors and employees are required to
read and acknowledge that they will abide
by, or be trained on, the code every two
years. We also review the code every two
years, updating it as necessary in response
to new laws and regulations. 

In 2005, we took a number of steps,
described below, to do this. In the balance of
this report, you will find additional examples
of how we are integrating corporate
responsibility into our business through
existing business systems and processes.

Enhancing OEMS
The Operational Excellence Management
System (OEMS) is our standard approach to
systematic management of safety, health,
the environment, reliability and efficiency 
in order to achieve world-class performance.
OEMS is comprised of three major parts:

(cid:2) Leadership Accountability
(cid:2) Management Systems Process
(cid:2) Operational Excellence Expectations

In 2005, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance
reviewed OEMS. It concluded that the
design of OEMS meets and in some 
cases goes beyond the requirements 
of leading international environmental,
health and safety management standards.
The environmental management system
standard is ISO (International Organization
for Standardization) 14001. The health and
safety management system standard is

Ensuring Compliance With Our Ethics Code
Chevron has an effective compliance program
with a structure of shared responsibility 
in which each business unit is responsible
for compliance. The Compliance Policy
Committee, which reports to the Executive
Committee, governs the companywide
compliance program. The chief compliance
officer reports to the company’s vice
chairman and is responsible for the
worldwide deployment and overall 
operation of the compliance program.

Reporting Violations Any director, employee
or contractor who believes another director,
employee or contractor has violated our
policies or local laws is obligated to report
the violation to management, legal counsel,
the appropriate operating organization’s
compliance committee or the Chevron
Hotline. We uphold our policy of protecting

OHSAS (Occupational Health and Safety
Assessment Series) 18001. As such, these
standards provide a benchmark for
excellence in managing performance in
these areas (see page 22).

By the end of 2005, more than 7,000
employees, including management and 
key operations personnel, had completed an
OEMS leadership training course designed
to help leaders better understand their roles
and responsibilities regarding operational
excellence. In addition, more than 2,200
managers and employees had completed
certification requirements for OEMS. We
also conducted corporate reviews of 24
units worldwide – about 30 percent of all
units – to assess the design and effectiveness
of OEMS implementation.

In 2006, we will deploy a self-assessment
process that business unit leaders will 
use annually to supplement the corporate
reviews by assessing their OEMS
implementation against expectations.

whistle-blowers from retaliation. Any
matter submitted to the Chevron Hotline
may be made anonymously if the caller so
chooses. The hotline is operated offsite by
Global Compliance Services (AlertLine®),
an independent agent. In 2005, AlertLine®
received 275 hotline calls, including calls
received following the Unocal acquisition 
in August, compared with 185 calls in 2004.
The increase is largely attributable to the
deployment of the revised Business
Conduct and Ethics Code, which created 
a heightened awareness of the hotline’s
existence. While the calls covered a wide
variety of concerns, the largest percentage
pertained to three classifications:

(cid:2) Employee issues (55 percent)
(cid:2) Legal and Regulatory (12 percent)
(cid:2) Environment, Health and Safety (10 percent)

12

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 13

Left Mohamed Al-Marri is manager of asset
development in the Partitioned Neutral Zone
(between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait) for Saudi 
Arabian Texaco Inc.

Right Chevron’s revised Business Conduct and Ethics
Code was deployed to employees companywide. 
From left are Matt Dodson, Kate Edwards and
Christina Orluck.

Standardized Assessments
We have been conducting environmental
and social impact assessments for select
projects for several years. In 2005, our
international upstream organization
adopted a standard process – the
Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) – for evaluating
proposed projects. ESHIA will help us
understand and reduce or eliminate a
project’s potential negative impacts as 
well as enhance positive ones.

The process requires that major capital
projects greater than $25 million, including
joint ventures in which Chevron has
operational control and an interest worth
more than $25 million, conduct an initial
screening for potentially significant 
impacts early in project development,
followed by more extensive scoping and
impact assessment steps if needed.

The end result of the process is an ESHIA
management plan approved by project 
and business unit management that
assures commitments made in the ESHIA
are carried into project construction and
operations. Our international upstream
organization is responsible for most of 
our significant new project growth, and 
the majority of our projects are
implementing the standard in 2006.

The ESHIA process draws on best practices
in the field, including guidance developed 

by industry associations and the World
Bank. It also builds on our extensive
knowledge, our existing practices and
leading industry practices in this area.

Key features of the ESHIA process include:

(cid:2) Performing an integrated analysis of

environmental, social and health impact,
allowing evaluation of tradeoffs in project
alternatives and mitigation strategies.

(cid:2) Standardizing the role of the ESHIA

process in project decision making and
evaluation and selection of project
alternatives.

(cid:2) Engaging stakeholders throughout the
assessment and the life of the project.

The ESHIA process is designed to support
continual learning and improvement, as 
are all processes in OEMS. This includes 
the formation of an ESHIA “community 
of practice” in which practitioners share
experiences and lessons learned from
across our businesses, functions and regions.

Management of Corporate Responsibility
To further integrate corporate responsibility
objectives into our existing systems,
processes and decision making, we continued
our work on developing a set of Corporate
Responsibility (CR) Expectations. The CR
Expectations, which are based on and
support our Operational Excellence
Expectations, articulate our vision of

“Chevron is a company that is up and coming relative to its oil and gas peers on 
a combination of environmental, social and corporate governance performance;
exposure to the industry’s Top 100 legacy assets; and cash returns on investment, 
in our opinion.* We see potential for improvement on a sustainable investing basis.

Chevron is in the top quartile of the Goldman Sachs Energy ESG Index and ranks 
in the middle of the majors. We have seen improvement in environmental and social
reporting and policies and performance in the areas of employee safety, human 
rights and business ethics from 2002 to 2004.

We believe environmental performance is the area where Chevron has the most
potential for development, such as resource use intensity, waste and emissions
intensity, and carbon impact. Along with a continued focus on employee safety 
and compensation, human rights and local communities, together with clear and
consistent reporting, this would allow Chevron to access and operate the industry’s
best new legacy assets.”

Sarah Forrest, Head of the ESG Research Team
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

* From “Global Energy – Integrating ESG,” a report by

Goldman Sachs analysts Anthony Ling, Sarah Forrest
and others, published in August 2005.

corporate responsibility and provide
operational guidance. During 2005, we
revised training materials that will be used to
continue to build awareness and a common
understanding of corporate responsibility.
These materials were peer reviewed in early
2006. We will make the training available to
business units later in the year.

Corporate Governance
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines
provide the foundation for how we operate
our company to ensure that it is responsive
and accountable to our stockholders. 
For example, we have a lead independent
director, we rotate committee memberships
and chair positions every four to six years,
and only independent directors serve on
board committees. All directors are elected
annually. Our Corporate Governance
Guidelines and structures are described in
detail on our Web site [1]. 

In 2005, the board adopted a “majority
vote” policy for electing directors to the
board. Under the policy, when a nominee 
for director receives a greater number of
“withheld” votes than “for” votes, he or 
she must submit an offer of resignation 
for consideration by the board’s 
Nominating and Governance Committee.
The committee then considers the facts 
and circumstances regarding the vote and
makes a recommendation to the board
regarding the offer of resignation. A number
of companies with strong governance
practices have adopted majority vote
policies, which have become an important
issue to many investors.

We continue to implement globally the
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
For more information, see our 2005 Annual
Report, available online [2]. 

For More on Integration
Please visit our Web site [3] for more
information on: 

(cid:2) Our Management Systems Approach
(cid:2) OE Operating Elements
(cid:2) Business Ethics
(cid:2) Corporate Governance

Also available are diagrams that provide an
overview of the socioeconomic contributions
and challenges as well as the environmental
issues of our core business activities.

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/corporate_governance/
[2] www.chevron.com/investor/annual/2005/
[3] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/integration/

13

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 14

Stakeholder Consultation

We are committed to building productive, collaborative and trusting relationships with the
company’s stakeholders, defined as those who affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate
interest in Chevron’s performance. Stakeholder consultation is an established practice in many
areas of our business. 

We took a number of steps in 2005 to
further our stakeholder consultation and
engagement efforts, including the following:

willyoujoinus.com We launched an online
forum designed to engage the public in
open and honest dialogue about the
important and complex issues surrounding
the development and supply of energy.
During the last six months of 2005, several
hundred thousand people from 170 countries
visited willyoujoinus.com, and more than
1,500 postings were made that offered
different viewpoints. Visit the Web site 
for more information [ 1]. 

ESHIA We made stakeholder engagement 
an integral and systematic component of
our international upstream organization’s
Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) (see page 13).

Stakeholder Engagement Guide We created
a stakeholder engagement guide and
facilitator training materials. The guide
outlines the process involved in conducting
successful stakeholder engagement and
emphasizes several overarching principles:
inclusiveness, respect, transparency,
openness and clarity. We provide training
and tools that support these principles,
including participatory needs assessments
and project planning and execution tools 
for social programs. In October 2005, we
held an internal stakeholder engagement
workshop to test these tools. Ongoing
efforts to promote the use of these materials
across the company will continue in 2006. 

Stockholder Proposals We engaged with
various parties who filed stockholder
proposals. Following discussions on progress
being made to implement Chevron’s
companywide HIV/AIDS policy, filers agreed

to withdraw their proposal. Other issues 
we engaged in, but were not successful in
reaching agreement on, included proposals
on human rights and the ongoing litigation in
Ecuador (see page 23). These proposals will
be put to stockholder vote on April 26, 2006.

Revenue Transparency
Throughout the world, countries rich in
natural resources have negotiated a range 
of contractual agreements with energy
companies, the terms of which have often
been subject to confidentiality clauses
insisted upon by host governments. Greater
disclosure has been advocated by multiple
stakeholders, including governments,
industry and nongovernmental
organizations. We support transparency 
and believe it is a necessary component –
though not the only answer – to good
governance. We believe that disclosure of 
all payments to a host-country government

Stakeholder

Profile

How we engaged in 2005

Stockholders

Registered and beneficial stockholders of record

(cid:2) Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
(cid:2) Stockholder proposals

Employees

53,440 Chevron employees (as of Dec. 31, 2005)

(cid:2) Employee Pulse Survey
(cid:2) Ethics hotline
(cid:2) Chevron ombudsperson
(cid:2) Worldwide employee teleconference with senior management
(cid:2) Monthly chairman’s letter
(cid:2) Employee networks

Business partners

Spent approximately $20 billion globally on goods
and services in 2005 with a network of suppliers
that range from multinational companies to small,
locally owned businesses

(cid:2) U.S. and non-U.S. small business, supplier diversity and local-content 

programs (see chart on page 15)

(cid:2) Supplier development forums
(cid:2) Participation in supplier-oriented organizations

Host governments

Governments in approximately 180 countries where
we conduct business

(cid:2) Negotiating production contracts
(cid:2) Collaborating on global initiatives (see page 15)

Customers

Commodity markets, wholesale and retail customers

Local communities

Numerous communities around the world where
Chevron’s facilities are located

(cid:2) Centralized trading center
(cid:2) Regional and in-country customer service support offices
(cid:2) U.S. Retail Marketing Center and U.S. Consumer Connection Center

(cid:2) Community engagement programs and outreach 
(cid:2) Employee volunteerism
(cid:2) Involving communities before and during new major capital projects 

Civil society
organizations

Business forums, multilateral institutions,
philanthropic foundations, academic institutions,
think tanks, faith-based groups, and
nongovernmental and development organizations 

(cid:2) Participation in multistakeholder forums and initiatives
(cid:2) Attendance at conferences and meetings 
(cid:2) Partnerships 
(cid:2) Direct dialogue

14

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 15

by any business has to be done with the
agreement of that government and results
in higher levels of accountability to citizens
for the effective use of these revenues.

EITI As an advocate for greater
transparency, Chevron actively supports the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI). Originally launched by U.K. Prime
Minister Tony Blair in 2002, EITI is now a
global coalition of governments, companies,
international financial institutions, asset
managers and nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs). EITI’s goal is to
increase the transparency of payments 
by the extractive industry to governments
of resource-rich nations that have agreed 
to implement EITI. Through increased
transparency, EITI aims to help countries
improve their governance, thereby
promoting and strengthening development.

In 2005, we worked closely with authorities
in Kazakhstan on their endorsement of EITI
and applaud their efforts. We continued 
to work closely with the government in
Nigeria, a country that has exhibited 
strong leadership in its commitment to
transparency. We commend the decision 
of the Angolan government to publish the
Block 0 signature and social bonuses. We
also support the inclusion of a transparency
clause in the Production Sharing Contract
for Block 1 of the Nigeria–São Tomé e
Príncipe Joint Development Zone.

U.S. Small Business and
Supplier Diversity Spending
US$ million

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

Small business 

1,015

1,364

1,310

1,360

1,800

Women-owned

178

Minority-owned

229

212

209

223

202

222

226

258

310

Chevron Australia Pty. Ltd.’s Jo Newland works at
the Perth office, which supports the company’s field
operations on Barrow Island – a Class A nature
reserve offshore Western Australia and the
proposed site of the Gorgon Gas Project. Chevron
has been acknowledged for its 40-plus years of
excellence in environmental management while
producing on the island. 

We believe that advancing the goals of EITI
will best be realized through an inclusive,
multistakeholder process. In 2005, we
began participating in the newly established
International Advisory Group (IAG), a panel
of representatives from across sectors who
are working to internationalize the scope
and develop recommendations for achieving
wider acceptance of EITI among resource-
rich countries. The IAG plans to present 
its recommendations at a global EITI
conference in 2006. The recommendations
will address key issues related to the
following three areas:

(cid:2) Incentives for Implementation: Identify

the economic, social and political drivers
that encourage resource-rich countries 
to participate in the initiative.

(cid:2) Verifying Implementation: Outline clear

rules for transparency that can be
universally applied and develop practical
and effective criteria for measuring
compliance by producer countries and
companies.

(cid:2) Future Governance: Determine the future
governance structure of EITI, identifying
the appropriate organizations and defining
specific roles, ensure the management
structure does not become overly
bureaucratic, outline key functions that
require a multistakeholder approach, and
identify sources of future funding for EITI.

More information is available on EITI’s 
Web site [2].

The recommendations are focused on
developing incentives for implementing 
EITI and mechanisms for verifying its
implementation and guiding future
governance.

Political Contributions
Political contributions are only made where
permitted by law and are subject to strict
internal approval processes and procedures.
In 2005, Chevron made nearly $1.53 million
in corporate political contributions, of which
46 percent went to politically affiliated
candidates and organizations and the
remaining 54 percent went to ballot
initiatives or organizations not affiliated
with a political party.

Also in 2005, the Chevron Employees
Political Action Committee (CEPAC)
contributed $165,000 to U.S. federal, state
and local candidates. A list of contributions
made during 2005 can be viewed on the
Federal Election Commission Web site. 

Visit our Web site to read more about
political contributions and our approach 
to engaging in the political process [3].

Lobbying for Energy Efficiency
In August 2005, President George Bush
signed into law the Energy Policy Act
covering a range of issues significant 
to our business. Chevron supported 
many of the conservation and technology
provisions in the bill that, in our view, 
will help address future energy supplies,
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 
and promote energy efficiency and
conservation. We dedicated substantial
time and effort lobbying on a provision to
extend the Energy Savings Performance
Contracting (ESPC) program, described in
our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report.
The program, which saves energy and
taxpayer dollars, was set to expire in 2006.

ESPC allows the U.S. federal government –
the largest energy consumer in the United

States – to install energy-efficient equipment,
with no upfront funds, in government
buildings and military facilities. Using the
cost savings generated by more energy-
efficient operations, the government then
repays private contractors after installation.

A unique coalition of environmental, labor,
business, good-government and energy
efficiency groups succeeded in gaining
support for the program, including a 10-year
authorization. Chevron was the only major 
oil and gas company to participate, reflecting
our commitment to conservation and to
Chevron Energy Solutions Company (CES), a
leader in energy efficiency and performance
contracting. For more information, please
visit the CES Web site [4].

[ 1 ] www.willyoujoinus.com/
[2] www.eitransparency.org/
[3] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/ 

stakeholder/political_process/

[4] www.chevronenergy.com/

15

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:18 pm  Page 16

Community Engagement

Chevron conducts business in communities around the world where our employees, customers,
suppliers and business partners live and work. Our ability to gain and maintain access to new
and existing resources is critical for our long-term success and depends on the strength of our
relationships with key stakeholders. 

Thus, we are committed to contributing to
the social and economic development of 
the communities in which we operate. We
believe that doing so is fundamental to the
broader success we seek to achieve as a
business. Most of our community initiatives
and investments are focused on building
human and institutional capacity in ways
that help stimulate economic growth and
enable communities to prosper. 

We have identified three areas we consider
critical to economic development:

(cid:2) Basic human needs
(cid:2) Education and career training
(cid:2) Small- and medium-size business

development, including access to credit

In 2005, we invested $73.1 million in
community initiatives, nearly 65 percent 
of which was directed toward long-term,
sustainable, capacity building projects 
in communities around the world. While
having a strong focus on economic growth
initiatives helps guide our ongoing efforts,
we also remain flexible in our approach. 
This allows us to respond quickly in times 
of crisis or when circumstances change. 

We continue to look for ways to measure
and evaluate our initiatives as well as our
impact on communities. In 2005, our
international upstream organization adopted
a new integrated standard process designed
to assess the environmental, social and
health impact of our major capital projects
(see page 13). 

Being Responsive to Community Needs
Given complex operating environments, being
responsive to community needs sometimes
requires new approaches and the ability 
to respond quickly to unforeseen events. 
In Nigeria, this required us to re-examine our
community engagement model. In Myanmar,
where humanitarian needs are acute and
human rights concerns exist, we will engage
with stakeholders on initiatives that benefit
the intended communities within the confines
of applicable U.S. laws and regulations.

In late 2004 and throughout 2005, natural
disasters devastated communities in South
Asia, in Pakistan and along the U.S. Gulf
Coast. Other communities in the United
States, Honduras, Mexico, Guatemala and
the Caribbean also felt the impact of one of
the most destructive hurricane seasons in
years. In each instance, we responded by
helping employees, their families and their
communities with relief and recovery
efforts. The largest of these efforts focused
on the U.S. Gulf Coast, where the impact on
our employees and operations was greatest
(see page 27 for a detailed case study on
Chevron’s response and recovery efforts).

In response to these natural disasters, 
we contributed a total of $12 million for
immediate relief efforts and long-term
recovery projects in 2005.

Customizing Our Approach in Nigeria
The Niger Delta is a region with complex
and deep-rooted issues that have eluded
many attempts at resolution over the years.
Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) has invested
more than $130 million in community
initiatives over the past 10 years and 
$143 million over the past five years to 
the Niger Delta Development Commission.
These funds are in addition to the tax and
royalty payments made to the government.
CNL also provides more than 2,000 jobs
locally, about 90 percent of which are filled
by Nigerians. Against this backdrop, CNL,
acting on the conviction that companies 
can play a constructive role in contributing
to sustainable solutions, initiated a new
community engagement model that
promotes accountability and participation
by multiple stakeholders.

In 2005, Chevron worked with state
governments and local communities to
establish Regional Development Councils
(RDCs), each of which comprises members
from different communities in Niger Delta
areas where CNL has operations. Each 
RDC has a management board made up 
of stakeholder representatives from state

and local government, nongovernmental
organizations, CNL and the RDC. The 
boards are to oversee the planning and
implementation of development programs
and activities.

This participatory approach should help
deliver sustainable projects that meet the
needs of individual communities. CNL
provided the initial funding, and plans are
under way to secure external support from
state and federal agencies and other donors.
Through this inclusive approach, CNL is
hopeful that communities will become
empowered to design and implement projects
that ultimately strengthen their local capacity
and begin to address the development needs
they face. CNL plans to support this process
by continuing to invest funds and resources
in ways that generate positive outcomes. 

Funding Sustainable Outcomes
Chevron funded hundreds of programs and
projects in 2005. In doing so, we want to know
that our investments lead to positive and
sustainable outcomes, which are often difficult
to measure. This is the impetus behind our
ongoing efforts to develop measurement tools
that will allow us to evaluate our community
engagement initiatives.

Global Community Investments
Amount spent in US$ million in 2005

North America 39.6

Latin America 4.1

Africa 10.3

Asia-Pacific 9.1

Eurasia 7.6

Middle East 1.6

Europe 0.8

Total $73.1 

Includes Chevron’s share in Chevron Phillips Chemical
Company, the Tengizchevroil joint venture, and the
Karachaganak Petroleum Operating Consortium.

16

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 17

To help build the technical capabilities of young
Nigerians, Chevron Nigeria Limited sponsors training
programs at the Ogere Training Facility. Here, student
Metseaghbarum Toriseju Yotan participates in the
Operator/Maintenance Technician program.

To help make the country’s 2005 National Health
Week a success, on Aug. 30, PT. Chevron Pacific
Indonesia’s hospitals and clinics in Rumbai
administered polio vaccines to 1,351 children 
under age 5.

Investing in Communities
Below are some examples of projects we
supported in 2005.

New Homes in Kazakhstan Tengizchevroil
provided about $35 million for the
construction of 430 new houses and 
a school for families originally from
Sarykamys, Kazakhstan, a village south 
of the Tengiz oil field. The village was
determined by the government to be too
close to the field, where future plans call
for an expansion of operations. The
families are being relocated to new homes
just inside the city of Atyrau, where many
residents work in the local oil industry. 
The relocation, which the government 
said is mandatory, is being conducted
according to World Bank guidelines, which
include compensation, consultation and 
a grievance process. The first group of
families moved in during the fall of 2005.
The Atyrau development is part of a larger
$73 million relocation project for residents
of Sarykamys, some of whom have chosen
to move to a more rural location, known 
as New Karaton. That project is expected
to be completed by the end of 2006.
Tengizchevroil is a joint-venture
partnership in which Chevron holds a 
50 percent interest.

Educating Youth in Aboriginal Communities 
In the Mackenzie Delta of Canada’s
Northwest Territories, Chevron’s Canada
business unit is a major supporter of 
a vocational training program for high 
school students living in several remote
communities in the Inuvialuit Settlement
Region. The Youth Entry-Level Skills
Program is aimed at keeping high school
students in school and building their skills
to promote access to jobs with energy
companies. The program was developed
through extensive consultations with the
community and in partnership with the local
school board and other energy companies.
This five-year-old program has served
approximately 230 students, placed
students in jobs with the business unit’s
contractors, and contributed to the number
of students completing high school and
pursuing post-secondary education.

Niger Delta Clinic Resumes Operating 
The River Boat Clinic serves as a mobile
hospital along the remote Benin and Escravos
rivers in Nigeria’s Delta State, delivering
critically needed free health care to the
doorsteps of many communities. After a
two-year suspension due to civil unrest, 
the clinic resumed operations in April 2005. 

Chevron’s alliance with the Discovery Channel Global
Education Partnership has helped establish learning
centers in Venezuela and several provinces in
Angola. Here, Discovery Channel’s Marithza
Aldazabal trains a group of teachers in Maracaibo,
Venezuela, in how to use the educational videos to
achieve curricular objectives. 

It currently serves about 40 river
communities and attends to an average 
of 2,500 patients every month, most of
whom are women and children with no
other access to health care facilities. CNL
and its joint-venture partner, the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation, provide
funding for the clinic.

Caring for Alaska’s Kenai Peninsula 
Building on Unocal’s 15 consecutive years
of support, Chevron in 2005 continued 
to support the publicly recognized Caring
for the Kenai competition. High school
students on the Kenai Peninsula in Alaska
compete for cash awards by developing
ways to improve the environment in South
Central Alaska. In some cases, students
have been able to implement their ideas
by securing resources from a range of
nonprofit, community, and local and state
government sources.

To read additional examples of how we
invest in communities, please visit our 
Web site [1].

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/ 

community_engagement/

17

212363A4_K  22/4/06  8:23 pm  Page 18

Human Rights

Chevron’s support for universal human rights is a core value in The Chevron Way. We believe
we have a role to play in promoting human rights that is consistent with our role as a business.
We engage with key stakeholders, including representatives of governments and civil society,
to contribute to an environment in which human rights are respected. We are committed to
supporting human rights for our employees and in the many communities where we operate.

Early in 2006, we adopted a Human Rights
Statement. Grounded in The Chevron Way,
the statement provides guidance to our
employees and acts as a framework for
constructive dialogue with stakeholders.
The statement makes clear our support for
human rights, consistent with the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. It also
recognizes internationally accepted labor
principles articulated in the International
Labor Organization’s Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
These include prohibitions on child labor,
forced labor and discriminatory behavior as
well as recognition of the rights of freedom
of association and collective bargaining. 
The text of the statement can be found on
our Web site [ 1]. Wherever we operate, we
will use the statement as a framework to
guide our decision making and engagement
in this issue. 

An important part of developing the
statement included a series of in-country

consultations during 2005 with key upstream
and downstream operating organizations 
and business units around the globe. 

The consultations provided an opportunity to
continue building our employees’ awareness
regarding human rights.

Training
Practical Training on human rights is being
developed to support the statement's
deployment. It will be designed to enhance
awareness of human rights and further
explain our support for universal human
rights and the Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights. Deployment 
will begin in 2006.

Continued Engagement
In addition to this work, we are participating
in initiatives that seek to support human
rights. We continue to support the Voluntary
Principles and actively participate in the
dialogue process with other extractive
companies, nongovernmental organizations

and governments. As is consistent with our
past practice, we communicate our security
expectations to key stakeholders and the
security providers with whom we work. 
Part of this process includes engaging the
U.S. government on the importance of
promoting human rights and the rule of law.

We also supported the relaunch of the Global
Sullivan Principles in 2005. The principles
retain their original objective of addressing
a wide range of human rights issues. 
Two strategic objectives of the relaunch 
are to promote the principles in order to
provide a leading voice for responsible
development and to advocate for strong
national governance. These two objectives
underscore the Rev. Leon H. Sullivan’s vision
of corporate responsibility.

Finally, as part of our ongoing dialogue 
and efforts on this issue, we will continue 
to engage with a wide range of stakeholders
and participate in events focused on 
human rights.

18

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 19

HIV/AIDS

Dr. Jose Van-Dunem, Angola’s vice minister of health,
addressed a Chevron gathering in Luanda on World
AIDS Day. Educational events were held in company
locations worldwide. World AIDS Day is one of many
HIV/AIDS-related education and prevention activities
that we support.

In January 2005, Chevron formally launched a companywide, global HIV/AIDS policy that
strives to address the serious health risk this disease poses for our employees, their dependents
and the communities in which they live and work. Implementation of this policy will continue
throughout 2006 and beyond.

“All of us at Pangaea have been
tremendously impressed by the
businesslike way Chevron has tackled 
the implementation of their global
HIV/AIDS policy and the strong
commitment the entire Chevron team 
has shown in developing a program 
that will be meaningful to employees 
and their managers around the world.
Active participation in the process by 
the regional managers in Africa and other
parts of the world has definitely enriched
the training programs under development.
Chevron’s ongoing effort to incorporate
best practices in HIV/AIDS training, 
testing and treatment into their global
effort is setting a high standard that other
multinational companies should follow.”

Eric Goosby, M.D., CEO and Chief Medical Officer
Pangaea Global AIDS Foundation

In brief, our global policy on HIV/AIDS
affirms that employees suffering from
HIV/AIDS are protected by the company’s
existing policies on discrimination and
harassment. It also states that employees
and their dependents, where provided under
the terms of the employees’ respective
benefit plans, will have access to treatment
and support. In addition, under the policy,
we plan to offer workplace and community-
based education, awareness, prevention 
and treatment programs reflective of local
needs and immediate priorities. The full text
of our global policy on HIV/AIDS can be
viewed online [2].

Our efforts in 2005 to implement our global
HIV/AIDS policy led to the following outcomes:

(cid:2) Full-time employees were hired for the

companywide implementation of the policy.

(cid:2) Thirty-three regional coordinators were

appointed to help oversee implementation
of the policy in areas where our employees
are concentrated.

(cid:2) Regional coordinators conducted situation

analyses at the local level to assess
infection rates; available support and
medical benefits; and whether education,
awareness, prevention and treatment
programs already exist.

(cid:2) A Web site was established to enable
coordinators to share best practices. 
This allows earlier successful initiatives
conducted for more than a decade by our
business units in South Africa, Angola,
Nigeria and Southeast Asia to be shared
throughout the company.

Developing Plans and Timelines in 2006
Based on findings from each situation
analysis, coordinators are working with
business units to develop action plans 
and milestone timelines that will focus on
the HIV/AIDS-related needs of our local
workforces. In regions where high levels 
of malaria and tuberculosis exist, the need
for education, prevention and treatment
programs will also be addressed.

We recognize that the success of any effort
will depend on the support of local
management. Therefore, we are working
with Pangaea Global AIDS Foundation to
develop standardized training curricula
specifically tailored to our management 
and employees. Our approach to offering
employees and their dependents HIV/AIDS
testing and treatment will be guided by a
set of principles currently being developed
by our global team in conjunction with
HIV/AIDS treatment experts at Pangaea. 
A nonprofit consultancy, Pangaea helps
corporations, nongovernmental organizations,
national health ministries and other
organizations broaden access to HIV/AIDS
antiretroviral treatment and care, with
special emphasis on work in resource-
limited settings.

During 2005, Chevron received a Program
of Note award from the Global Business
Coalition on HIV/AIDS (GBC), an upper-
echelon distinction, due in large part to
work we have done in Angola. This was the
second award from the GBC, a nonprofit
organization that works with businesses to
leverage their assets, skills and networks 
to tailor localized campaigns to prevent 
and control the spread of HIV/AIDS.

More information about some of our
localized efforts aimed at preventing the
spread of HIV/AIDS can be found on our 
Web site [2]. 

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/human_rights/
[2] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/hiv_aids/

19

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 20

Health and Safety

Protecting the health and safety of our employees and all those who work on our behalf is our
highest priority at Chevron. We have sharply cut our rate of incidents and injuries through an
intense focus on improving health and safety performance. Regrettably, six people died in
2005 while working on behalf of the company. Any fatality is unacceptable. We are committed
to reducing fatalities – and all incidents – to zero.

Safe Operations
As measured by the Total Recordable
Incident Rate (TRIR), 2005 was our safest
year on record and our seventh straight
year of improvement. Over a seven-year
period, our workforce TRIR improved more
than 70 percent.

To drive safety performance improvement,
we set aggressive targets for key safety
indicators. In 2005, we met our target to
reduce our workforce Days Away From Work
Rate (DAFWR). The total on-the-job injury
rate improved 20 percent from 2004, and
the rate of injuries severe enough to require
days away from work improved 30 percent.

Motor vehicle crashes have been a leading
cause of fatalities in our industry. We have
developed several programs and initiatives
to improve road safety. In 2005, one fatality
resulted from a motor vehicle crash,
compared with six fatalities in 2004.

These improvements also reflect our
commitment to operational excellence (OE)
and to the continued disciplined integration
of OE into everyday operations and
activities. For example, our downstream

operations have deployed standard
processes addressing behavior-based 
safety, contractor safety management,
motor vehicle safety, early incident
management and incident investigation.

Promoting a Healthy Workforce 
We value the health and well-being of our
employees as well as their safety. During
2005, we enhanced the health-related
content of our Operational Excellence
Management System (OEMS) by adopting 
a global standard for benzene exposure.

To assist employees with a range of
personal, family and work-related concerns
and problems, our Employee Assistance and
WorkLife Services (EAP/WorkLife) provide
confidential programs and consulting
services. These programs and services 
are being adapted to meet the needs of
employees in communities and cultures as
diverse as South Africa, Singapore, the
United Kingdom and the United States by
using local resources. Regardless of location,
the programs are focused on the primary
purpose of EAP/WorkLife: to help employees
sustain a safe workplace and stay healthy.

Avian Flu
The recent appearance and spread of avian
influenza has raised concerns that this virus
may mutate and become capable of human-
to-human transmission. If that were to occur,
avian influenza could pose a threat to our
workforce and businesses around the globe.

To assess the risks and plan a coordinated
response, a cross-functional Chevron team
developed a phased avian influenza plan. 
It builds on and updates existing crisis
management capabilities to account for the
unique aspects of an influenza pandemic.
The plan includes three major strategies:

(cid:2) Prevent exposure to and transmission of
the virus by implementing education and
hygiene programs.

(cid:2) Contain the spread of the virus in the

workplace by taking measures to reduce
workplace exposure.

(cid:2) Update business continuity plans to

address pandemic influenza scenarios.

Total Recordable Incident Rate
Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hours

Days Away From Work Rate
Days away per 200,000 work hours

Lost-Time Incident Frequency
Incidents per million work hours

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

0.72

0.93

0.88

0.90

0.68

0.90

0.74

0.84

0.60

0.84

0.59

0.76

0.46

0.66

0.53

0.73

0.38

N/A

0.42
N/A

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

0.34

0.22

0.26

0.21

0.25

0.23

0.25

0.21

0.25

0.22

0.18

0.17

0.21

0.19

0.16

0.19

0.16

N/A

0.10

N/A

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

1.70

1.10

1.37

1.10

1.26

1.20

1.30

1.10

1.26

1.08

0.95

0.90

1.07

0.95

0.87

0.95

0.84

N/A

0.49

N/A

American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks.

20

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 21

Left PT. Chevron Pacific Indonesia employee 
Mela Erlania trains on a portable fire extinguisher
during a routine fire-fighting drill at Duri 
operations in April 2005. The company holds 
drills at such diverse settings as gas plants, 
medical buildings and the kindergarten at the
company complex in Rumbai.

Right GATOR (Generating Awareness Through
Observation and Review) is an ongoing safety
program on offshore platforms in the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico. Mike Richoux, a GATOR coordinator in 2005,
says that 96 percent of the observations that year
were of safe, rather than at-risk, behaviors.

During the first quarter of 2006, we began
to deploy education and hygiene programs.
Our business units will also assess and tailor
their business continuity and containment
strategies. In preparing our plans, we have
been working with other companies to help
build an informal coalition of businesses
that are planning to take similar actions
should an outbreak occur.

Product Stewardship 
Chevron seeks to manage the
environmental, health and safety impact 
of our products throughout their life 
cycle. This concept is known as “product
stewardship” and is formally integrated 
into OEMS. As part of OEMS, business units
are required to implement processes and
systems to identify, minimize, manage and
communicate potential risks throughout 
the product life cycle.

Motor Vehicle Safety Classifications
As indicated in the chart below, our motor
vehicle incident rate increased in 2005. 
To help understand the underlying cause,
we participated in the development of new
classifications for industry motor vehicle
incidents through the International
Association of Oil & Gas Producers, whose
classifications are similar to the injury
classifications we currently report. These
new metrics will help us understand the
causes of the most serious crashes and 
help us prevent them.

Promoting Road Safety
Safe roads help preserve the health and
safety of our workforce and the reliability
of our operations. They also benefit 
the communities in which we operate. 
We are promoting road safety through 
two unique programs.

Arrive Alive In several communities that
host our operations, we are developing
collaborative nonprofit entities to develop
and implement road safety action plans
though our Arrive Alive program. In 2005,
we hosted stakeholder workshops in
Guatemala, Nigeria, South Africa and
Uganda and pursued opportunities to
collaborate with others in the private
sector as well as with the appropriate
government agencies in each country. 
The plans address such high-priority issues
as speeding, impaired driving, motorcycle
and bicycle safety, and pedestrian safety.

Project Preserve The successful truck
transport safety program begun in Nigeria
in 2004 is being implemented selectively in
other countries in Africa and other regions
of the world where transportation safety

poses a high risk. Project Preserve seeks 
to eliminate serious truck crashes in all 
22 countries of Chevron Global Marketing’s
Africa-Pakistan region by training contract
drivers in defensive driving and by setting
and enforcing standards for truck safety.
The accomplishments in the region at 
year-end 2005 include:

(cid:2) 6,063 drivers trained in defensive

driving skills.

(cid:2) 252,241 spot inspections conducted prior

to loading trucks, with 2,687 trucks
failing inspection, thus not being loaded.

(cid:2) 98 percent of drivers wearing seat belts
upon approaching the terminal gate for
departure, compared with 48 percent at
year-end 2004.

The Project Preserve team has shared
practices, tools and lessons learned from
the program’s implementation throughout
the company. Our Latin America Logistics
and Africa Global Lubricants operations
have adopted the approach and have
begun implementation.

Work-Related Fatalities

Motor Vehicle Safety
Employee motor vehicle incidents per million miles driven

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

Employees

Contractors

Total

2

21

23

1

15

16

0

12

12

2

15

17

2

4

6

Employees

3.29

2.94

3.31

3.01

3.65

Contractor mileage will be tracked in 2006, enabling reporting 
of contractor incident rates.

21

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 22

Environmental Management

In 2005, we made measurable progress on each of the three strategic priorities for environmental
performance established in 2004 and outlined in last year’s Corporate Responsibility Report. 
These priorities are: defining world-class standards, measuring and communicating performance, 
and demonstrating continual performance improvement.

Progress on these priorities, described
below, reflects disciplined application of our
Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS), which also encompasses efficiency,
natural resources conservation, product
stewardship and emergency management.

OEMS Meets International Standards
To confirm that OEMS is aligned with
international standards, we asked Lloyd’s
Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) to
review OEMS. LRQA attested that OEMS
design fully addresses, and in some respects
exceeds, the requirements of ISO 14001 and
OHSAS 18001. The full text of the statement
is available on the Web [ 1]. As part of the
review, in late 2005 we made our Operational
Excellence policy publicly available on our
Web site [2].

At the operating organization level, our
international upstream organization, which
represents most of Chevron’s significant
new project growth, approved a significant
new standardized process for identifying
and addressing the environmental, social
and health impact of major capital projects
(see page 13).

Measuring and Communicating Performance
During 2005, we developed internal metrics
for companywide tracking of key water and
waste performance. We will begin gathering
and assessing companywide data in these
areas in 2006. These steps reflect our
commitment to continual improvement in
environmental performance and in measuring
and communicating results. We also are
working to fully integrate data from former
Unocal operations and update our targets to
reflect our changing portfolio of operations.

OEMS Leads to Improvement
In 2005, we met our goals for energy
efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions
(see Climate Change, Energy Efficiency and
Renewables section). We had no spills from
our operated fleet of tankers. Excluding
hurricane-related spills, oil spill performance
matched our 2004 performance. As discussed
in our case study, beginning on page 27, 
we plan for emergencies such as hurricanes.
We believe that our extensive emergency
preparedness and response efforts, as well
as prior investments in subsea well-shutoff
capabilities, significantly minimized

environmental releases during the 2005
hurricane season. We continue to learn
important lessons from such events and
build those into future preparedness plans.

Our performance in air emissions and
petroleum spills is summarized in the data
charts below. Environmental fines and
settlements are described on page 26.
Regarding chemical spills, we had 35 such
accidental releases in 2005, with a total
volume of 178,000 kilograms, less volume
than in 2004. A total of 70,200 kilograms 
of chemicals were recovered, and the
remaining chemicals were contained and
disposed of properly. Chemical spills
encompass accidental releases of all
nonpetroleum materials, which include
drilling fluids, contaminated water and other
chemicals, such as those used as catalysts.

To view a diagram that provides an overview
of our core business activities and the key
environmental issues we face, please visit
our Web site [3]. 

Global Air Emissions 
Metric tons 

U.S. Refining Air Emissions
Metric tons

Upstream

Downstream

Other

2003

2004

2005

2003

2004

2005

2003

2004

2005

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

NOx

Nitrogen oxides

100,046

89,764

97,829

13,109

13,877

15,837

SOx

Sulfur oxides

111,050

96,809

87,455

29,010

26,091

23,986

VOCs

Volatile organic
compounds

N/A

402,362

445,049

N/A

24,330

23,442

12,475

11,907

N/A

10,656

10,499

80

8,250

7,433

212

NOx

11,358

SOx

11,295

VOCs

7,793

8,213

11,356

8,535

7,990

10,501

8,555

7,303

11,637

7,153

6,675

10,416

7,443

Globally, NOx and VOC emissions increased, compared with 2004. This is attributable primarily 
to the acquisition of Unocal assets. In 2005, SOx emissions decreased over 2004 estimates. 
This decrease was primarily due to lower sulfur content in fuel and flared gas.

22

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 23

Left A coyote thrives at the Guadalupe Dunes on 
the California coast. Chevron is continuing the work
Unocal began in 1994 to restore this site, once an
active oil field. 

Right Chevron has embarked on a seven-year, 
$1 billion program to evaluate and replace, if necessary,
3,500 underground storage tanks at our sites
worldwide. This old, single-walled tank is being lifted
from a service station in Nandaime, Nicaragua, and
will be replaced with a double-walled tank.

Biodiversity Conservation
During 2005, we expanded our efforts to
support biodiversity conservation through
a threefold approach.

First, we continued to integrate
biodiversity conservation into OEMS to be
more consistent across the company. For
example, our ESHIA process (see page 13)
incorporates the identification and
evaluation of a wide range of biodiversity
impacts and mitigation activities.

Second, we continued to promote broader
understanding and sharing of best practices
across the industry through participation
in the multistakeholder Energy and
Biodiversity Initiative [4] and the

Biodiversity Working Group (BDWG) 
of two major industry associations: 
the International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association 
and the International Association of Oil & Gas
Producers. We also sponsored the Central
Africa Regional Workshop of the BDWG 
in Luanda, Angola, in September 2005. 
In collaboration with Conservation
International and Wildlife Conservation
Society, the event attracted more than 
50 regional participants from industry,
government and nongovernmental
organizations. The primary objective was 
to build trust among stakeholders involved
in biodiversity.

Third, we continued to work with and
provide financial support to global and
local organizations engaged in efforts to
conserve sensitive ecosystems or species.
The 2005 Unocal acquisition also brought
important new biodiversity conservation
partnerships to the company, including 
a multiyear Ridges to Reefs® project with 
The Nature Conservancy in Indonesia. 
This project involves building awareness
and promoting conservation and sustainable
livelihoods with local communities in
threatened marine and terrestrial areas
near Berau in the Indonesian province of
East Kalimantan.

Environmental Litigation
Chevron continues to vigorously defend
against litigation alleging environmental
damage from Texaco Petroleum Company’s
(TexPet) former operations in Ecuador.
TexPet was part of an oil producing
consortium from 1964 to 1992 with state-
owned oil company Petroecuador. The
company is challenging the lawsuit on 
both scientific and legal grounds.

At the close of 2005, the court had completed
35 of 122 scheduled field inspections. The
overwhelming body of evidence from the

inspected sites clearly shows the areas
remediated by TexPet pose no human 
health or environmental risks due to
TexPet’s operations. In early 2006, a panel
of court-appointed experts issued its first
site inspection report, concluding that
TexPet’s remediation of the Sacha 53 site
was effective and in accordance with legal
standards of the time. The panel also 
found that the remediated areas posed no
significant risk to human health. The TexPet
remediation program was approved by the
government of Ecuador, and TexPet was

fully released from any further claims by
the government. As such, TexPet met all of
its obligations and performed in accordance
with Ecuadorean government requirements.
Furthermore, documents, witness testimony
and field observations have proved that
Petroecuador, the state-owned oil company
that has operated the fields for the past 15
years, is responsible for numerous oil spills
throughout the region. We continue to 
keep the public informed about this lawsuit
through updates, in both English and
Spanish, on our Web site [5]. 

U.S. Refining Air Emissions
Metric tons per million barrels processed

Petroleum Spills
Volume in barrels

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

NOx

SOx

VOCs

33

32

22

24

33

25

24

31

25

23

36

22

22

35

25

Total volume

Spills recovered

54,834

54,696

26,540

15,514

47,934

48,348

27,805

10,659

9,905

11,202

Nonhurricane related*

Hurricane related*

Number of spills

*Applies only to 
2004 & 2005

12,414

12,755

3,100

35,179

1,428

1,502

1,145

986

846

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/about/docs/2005/attestation.pdf 
[2] www.chevron.com/about/operational_excellence/
[3] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/

environment_mgmt/

[4] www.theebi.org/
[5] www.texaco.com/ecuador/

23

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 24

Climate Change, Energy Efficiency
and Renewables

At Chevron, we recognize and share the concerns of governments and the public about 
climate change. The use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs has contributed to 
an increase in greenhouse gases (GHGs) – mainly carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane – in the
earth’s atmosphere. There is a widespread view that this increase is leading to climate change,
with adverse effects on the environment. We took early action to create a comprehensive plan
to reduce GHG emissions and increase energy efficiency. 

We believe energy efficiency is the easiest,
cheapest and most reliable source of 
“new energy” available today and one 
of the easiest, cheapest ways to reduce 
GHG emissions.

Our climate change fourfold action plan is
now in its fourth year of implementation.
We are:

(cid:2) Reducing emissions of GHGs and
increasing energy efficiency.

(cid:2) Investing in research, development and 

improved technology.

(cid:2) Pursuing business opportunities in 

promising, innovative energy technologies.

(cid:2) Supporting flexible and economically
sound policies and mechanisms that
protect the environment.

Each of these areas encompasses a range 
of activities. In this report, we focus on our
progress and performance in reducing
GHGs, flaring and venting and in increasing
energy efficiency and renewable energy.
Additional information is available on our
Web site [ 1].

Climate Change Performance and Progress 
In 2005, we met our goal of no net increase
in GHG emissions from our operations
compared with 2004, despite the addition 
of new production capacity and exploring 
for and producing energy in more complex,
remote and energy-intensive operating
environments. Our 2005 emissions were 
59.7 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent
emissions. In 2005, 90 percent of CO2-
equivalent emissions were from CO2 and
approximately 10 percent from methane, with
trace amounts of nitrous oxide. Combustion,
flaring and venting remain the largest
contributors to our GHG emissions.

For 2005, our products resulted in emissions
of 374 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent,
or 1.5 percent of global emissions, based on
International Energy Agency estimates. 

We are continuing to develop a long-term
emissions forecast as the basis for an
emissions management plan that aligns with
our fourfold climate change strategy. For
2006, our preliminary goal is 68.5 million
metric tons of CO2 equivalent, which

includes legacy Unocal assets. This number
is higher than that for 2005 because of two
major factors: hurricane-related and other
shutdowns in 2005 decreased emissions,
which are expected to return to previous
levels in 2006, and Unocal assets will be
counted for a full year. They were included
for five months in 2005.

During the past year, Kyoto Protocol
implementation and other initiatives
prompted increased activity in carbon
markets, generally. To respond to these
developments, we established a carbon
markets team in 2004. This team, which
coordinates Chevron’s carbon-related
policies and activities throughout the world,
assists our units in achieving cost-effective
carbon regulatory compliance. The team
also leads efforts to secure credits for
voluntary carbon emissions reduction under
the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development
Mechanism. For example, we are seeking to
realize the value of avoided emissions at
our Darajat, Indonesia, geothermal facility
through the Clean Development Mechanism.

GHG Emissions by Source
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

GHG Emissions by Sector
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

Total GHG Emissions by Type
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent

2002

2003

2004

2005

2002

2003

2004

2005

2002

2003

2004

2005

Combustion

Flaring/venting

Other

38.8

15.8

7.1

38.9

16.2

7.0

38.1

14.9

7.7

37.4

14.8

7.5

Upstream

Downstream

Other

34.8

24.3

2.6

35.2

23.7

3.2

33.4

24.0

3.2

34.4

22.6

2.7

Direct*
Indirect*
Grid Credits*

62.8

-0.2

-0.9

62.6

0.3

-0.9

61.8

-0.2

-0.9

61.7

-1.3

-0.7

GHG emissions and targets have been restated to reflect an error in the equity share of one business unit.

Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported on an equity-share basis in all businesses where we have an interest, with the exceptions listed here. Total 2005 emissions include the equity
share of assets operated by legacy Unocal for August through December. Totals generally exclude emissions from Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc., Caltex Australia
Limited’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, other refineries where we have an equity interest ranging from 4 percent to 16 percent, and entities over which we do not have full operational
control and which do not follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible protocol. 

* Direct emissions come from sources within a facility. Indirect emissions come from electricity and steam Chevron imports, less the emissions credits from electricity and steam Chevron

exports. Grid credits account for the electricity Chevron exports that is produced more efficiently than electricity from the regional or national grid.

24

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 25

Design engineer Edward Shelton is seen here at the
El Segundo, California, refinery’s No. 6 H2S plant.
When fully operational, the plant is expected to
enable the refinery’s fuel-gas system to meet 
the 40-part-per-million total sulfur limit set by 
the South Coast Air Quality Management District.

We require proposed projects over $5 million
to analyze the financial impact of carbon
emissions within a range of costs per metric
ton of CO2 equivalent. By doing so, planning
for our capital projects accounts for the
costs associated with GHG emissions
reduction policies and for the potential
eligibility for emissions reduction credits.

Instead, it focuses on the efficiency of 
each type of activity, from production and
shipping to refining and marketing. Through
a consistent focus on energy efficiency, we
have reduced our energy consumption per
unit of output by 24 percent since 1992. 
For further details on our CEI performance,
see our Web site [2].

At the same time, the reduction of flaring
and venting in overseas operations offers 
a significant opportunity to cut GHG
emissions and utilize the gas resources.
Flaring and venting totaled approximately
25 percent of our total GHG emissions in
2005, accounting for 14.8 million tons of
CO2-equivalent emissions.

Energy Efficiency Performance
Our exploration, production and refining
operations require significant amounts of
energy to supply products to the customer
– whether natural gas, propane, gasoline, jet
fuel, diesel or home heating oil. Maturing
crude oil and natural gas fields, more
challenging production environments – 
for example, deepwater and enhanced oil
recovery – and demand for cleaner fuels
also increase the amount of energy needed
to run our operations. The cost of this
energy is substantial, averaging $2.7 billion
annually from 2001 to 2004. With the
escalation of energy prices, our 2005
energy costs totaled $4.4 billion.

In 2005, we met our companywide Chevron
Energy Index (CEI) goal of 76. CEI, established
in 1992, measures energy use at each facility
and for each business activity. CEI measures
the energy required today to produce our
products compared with the energy that
would have been required to produce the
same products in the base year. As an index,
CEI factors out many variables that affect
total energy consumption. 

Chevron Energy Index
1992 = base 100

100

95

92 91 87 87 84 82 83 79 79 78 76 76

92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05

To meet our energy efficiency goals, we
implemented many improvements and
completed planned maintenance at key
facilities. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita 
forced the shutdown and startup of 
U.S. Gulf of Mexico production facilities 
and the Pascagoula Refinery. This required
significant additional energy use and also
cut production. Nevertheless, we met our
year-end CEI target of 76 because other
parts of the business exceeded expectations
for efficiency improvement. Our total energy
consumption in 2005 was 853 trillion Btu
(excludes non-U.S. Unocal assets).

Flaring and venting reduction is an important
part of our climate change strategy. 
During 2005, our international upstream
organization established an environmental
performance standard to drive operational
excellence in the management of flaring 
and venting in our operations. The standard
is aligned with the objectives of the Global
Gas Flaring Reduction Public-Private
Partnership coordinated by the World Bank.
The standard requires that all new capital
projects be developed without continuous
associated gas flaring and venting unless 
it is infeasible to do so.

Through our subsidiary Chevron Energy
Solutions Company (CES), we also provide
engineering and project management
expertise to businesses, institutions and
government entities to help them conserve
energy. CES is the fourth-largest U.S.
company of its kind and unique among
global energy companies. In 2005, it saved
its customers 177 million kilowatt hours 
of electricity and 1.2 billion cubic feet of
natural gas. For more information, visit 
the CES Web site [3]. 

Flaring and Venting
When crude oil is brought to the earth’s
surface, natural gas associated with the 
oil also comes to the surface. The lack of
infrastructure and nearby gas markets 
in many parts of the world where oil is
produced means that associated natural 
gas is released into the atmosphere ignited
(flared) or unignited (vented). In the United
States, through voluntary efforts such 
as participation in the Environmental
Protection Agency’s Natural Gas STAR
program, we have reduced natural gas
emissions by more than 20 billion cubic 
feet since 1991. 

The Sanha Condensate Project in Angola
became operational in 2005. This project
addresses the largest single source of
flaring from our operations and will be
delivering a 10 percent to 20 percent
reduction in companywide flaring and
venting while reducing GHG emissions 
by more than 2 million tons per year. The
project will increase crude oil production
by approximately 100,000 barrels per day
without additional flaring. 

At full production, it will also significantly
reduce routine flaring from existing
neighboring operations by capturing and
injecting produced gas underground for
future use. In addition, a Chevron-led
consortium is working to utilize associated
gas and further reduce flaring from
production operations in Angola (the
Angola Liquefied Natural Gas Project).
Other projects that will reduce flaring 
and venting include the West African 
Gas Pipeline (from Nigeria to Benin, 
Togo and Ghana) and various projects
being developed in Kazakhstan, Venezuela
and Indonesia.

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/environment/ 

www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/energy_conservation/ 
www.chevron.com/technology/new_energy_technologies/ 
renewable_energy.asp 

[2] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/energy_conservation/
[3] www.chevronenergy.com/

25

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:19 pm  Page 26

With the Unocal acquisition, including this Mak-Ban
geothermal power plant in the Philippines, Chevron
became the largest producer of renewable energy 
in the oil and gas industry and the world’s largest
producer of geothermal energy.

We currently are involved in four major
geothermal energy projects that produce
clean electricity for Indonesia and 
the Philippines.

In West Java, Indonesia, we are involved 
in two projects. The 377-megawatt Gunung
Salak project is among the largest in 
the world. The Darajat project produces 
145 megawatts of geothermal energy. 
An additional 110-megawatt unit, Darajat
Unit 3, is scheduled for startup by late 2006.

In the Philippines, we produce geothermal
energy at two fields that, together, supply 
15 percent of the electricity required by
Luzon, the most populous Philippine island.
The Makiling-Banahaw (Mak-Ban) project 
in the Laguna and Batangas provinces,
produces 422 megawatts. The Tiwi project, 
in Albay province, produces 206 megawatts
of geothermal energy. These generating units
have performed reliably for nearly 30 years.

Visit our Web site to learn more about how
geothermal energy works [1]. 

Ethanol In January 2006, we announced 
a collaboration with the state of California,
General Motors and Pacific Ethanol to
evaluate E85, a blend of 85 percent ethanol
and 15 percent gasoline. The project will
study performance, efficiency and
environmental issues using reformulated
E85, a renewable fuel that Chevron will make
available at various demonstration stations
for a fleet of 50 to 100 state vehicles.

Hydrogen Chevron operates the largest,
most complex hydrogen infrastructure in 
the United States. In 2005, we added fueling
stations in Florida, New Mexico and Michigan.
The fueling stations demonstrate the safe,
practical application of hydrogen technology.
For more information, visit our Web site [2].

To read about Chevron’s wind, solar and
other renewable energy efforts, visit our
Web site [3].

Renewable Energy and Clean Energy
Technologies
In order to meet the world’s growing need
for energy, we believe all potential sources
must be considered. New technologies and
new energy sources, including conservation-
related technology, must be able to compete
in the marketplace. As part of our portfolio,
we have been making targeted investments
in renewable and clean-energy projects. 
We committed more than $300 million 
a year to renewable and clean energy in 
2004 and 2005.

Geothermal Energy With the acquisition 
of Unocal, we now produce 1,152 megawatts
of renewable energy, primarily geothermal,
making us the largest renewable energy
producer of any global oil and gas company.
It also makes us the largest producer of
geothermal energy. For more than 30 
years, we have been helping countries
harness their geothermal resources to 
meet sustainable development objectives.
Compared with coal-fired systems, which
tend to be the lowest-cost option in many
developing countries, geothermal energy
emits only about 10 percent of the GHG
emissions, produces limited other emissions
and waste, and requires a significantly
smaller physical footprint. Chevron has
been a leader in developing the world’s
operating geothermal fields, accounting 
for more than half of all privately developed
capacity (see chart below).

World Geothermal Energy Developed

Government 50%

Chevron 27%

Other private 23%

Chevron is the world’s largest geothermal energy producer.

Environmental Expenditures
Using definitions and guidelines established
by the American Petroleum Institute, we
estimated our worldwide environmental
spending in 2005 at approximately 
$1.3 billion for our consolidated companies.
Included in these expenditures were 
$341 million of environmental capital
expenditures and $979 million in 
costs associated with the prevention,
control, abatement or elimination of
hazardous substances and pollutants 
from operating, closed or divested sites,
and the abandonment and restoration 
of sites, which includes $14 million and 
$66 million, respectively, for Unocal
activities for the last five months of 2005.

Fines and Settlements
At times in 2005, some of our facilities
may not have met all government
environmental, health and safety
requirements, which resulted in fines 
and penalties. We remain committed 
to improving performance and learning
from these instances. The number of 
fines and settlements increased to 577 
in 2005 from 469 in 2004. The cost of
environmental health and safety fines 
and settlements dropped to $4.3 million 
in 2005 from $6.3 million in 2004. 
Health and safety accounted for 459 of
the total, representing just over $142,000;
the remaining 118 were for environmental
issues, representing most of the cost.

EPA New Source Review Consent Decree
In 2003, as part the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency’s (EPA) Petroleum
Refinery Initiative to reduce air emissions
from the nation’s refineries, Chevron
U.S.A. Inc. entered into a voluntary
agreement with the EPA and several state
agencies. This agreement, or Consent
Decree, was approved by a U.S. court in
2005; Chevron then paid an associated
civil penalty of $3.5 million.

Environmental, Health and Safety Fines
and Settlements US$ million

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

Total paid

0.95

4.28

3.99

6.33

4.27

Total number

388

278

470

469

577

26

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/geothermal/
[2] www.chevron.com/technologyventures/ 

commercialize_tech/hydrogen_infrastructure.asp

[3] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/wind_solar/

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:20 pm  Page 27

Chevron’s Response to the 
U.S. Gulf Coast Hurricanes

The U.S. Gulf Coast region is vital to our business and is where more than
4,300 Chevron employees live and work. In 2005, communities along the
Gulf Coast endured one of the most destructive, unrelenting hurricane
seasons in history. More than 1,000 people died, hundreds of thousands
were displaced, and countless homes and businesses were destroyed.

Chevron Shipping Company regional marine superintendent Doug McCormick studies a map of the
Pascagoula Channel with members of the U.S. Coast Guard and Navy at a Jackson County Port Authority
meeting on Sept. 6, 2005. Before electricity was returned to Pascagoula, the daily meetings were held in 
the Port Authority’s parking lot. With Chevron’s help, the port reopened for incoming ships just 10 days 
after Hurricane Katrina made landfall. 

27

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:20 pm  Page 28

Left At the Jackson County Emergency Operations Center in Pascagoula, Mississippi, Chevron’s Steve
Renfroe (far right) discusses Port of Pascagoula reopening plans with a member of the U.S. Coast Guard, 
as Jackson County Supervisor Tim Broussard greets Chevron Chairman and CEO Dave O’Reilly. 
Right Just 12 days after Hurricane Katrina slammed into the Mississippi Gulf Coast, construction was
completed on family living units and dormitories, such as the men’s dormitory shown here, to hold up 
to 1,500 displaced employees and family members.

When Hurricane Katrina first made landfall on Aug. 29, 2005, it hit the Louisiana and
Mississippi coastlines with overwhelming force. Three weeks later, the Gulf Coast suffered a
second blow when Hurricane Rita struck. Prior to the hurricanes, we took precautions to safely
evacuate all offshore employees and contractors and to strongly encourage those working
onshore to evacuate to safe locations. We also safely shut down and secured all onshore and
offshore facilities within the hurricanes’ probable paths, including our largest U.S. refinery in
Pascagoula, Mississippi.

In the midst and aftermath of both storms, communication
systems went down, which caused widespread confusion 
and havoc, especially following Katrina. The magnitude of
unfolding events made it difficult to initially assess how our
employees, business operations and communities were
affected by the storms.

As information was gathered, Chevron employees stepped up
and immediately leveraged their organizational and technical
capabilities, used company resources, and responded to each
critical situation that emerged, of which there were many. 
Our first priority was locating employees and their families and
being sure they were safe. While many employees have been
significantly affected by one or both hurricanes, fortunately
there were no fatalities.

The following pages summarize Chevron’s response to hurricanes
Katrina and Rita and our efforts to support the immediate
relief and short-term recovery efforts. Also discussed are our
plans to contribute to the long-term rebuilding of the affected
communities, which will draw on our experiences of helping
communities recover after the 2004 tsunami in South Asia.

Immediate Response to the Hurricane Disasters

Taking Care of Employees In the event of a natural disaster, 
our first concern is to locate our employees and bring aid 
to them and their families. To help account for employees
affected by Hurricane Katrina, we established a corporate 
toll-free line, used radio and Web communications, and took
out advertisements in newspapers across the Gulf Coast urging
employees to contact the company. Employees in Pascagoula
went door to door in search of their co-workers who were still
missing. By Sept. 16, the company had accounted for the safety
of all affected employees in the region.

By the time Hurricane Rita struck on Sept. 23, we had improved 
our toll-free telephone system and implemented a mandatory
communications plan that required employees to contact 
the company with news of their whereabouts and safety.
Consequently, it was only a matter of days before we were able
to locate and verify the safety of all evacuated employees.

Pascagoula, where our refinery employs 1,200 people, was in the
direct path of Katrina. Early reports indicated that up to 300 of
our refinery employees and contractors lost their homes in the
hurricane. We responded by setting up a 12-acre (4.8-hectare)
tent camp capable of housing nearly 1,500 employees and
contractors and their families. The air-conditioned tent facility
provided a range of services such as catering, laundry, showers
and a recreation area. Additional support came from a
contingent of 30 employees from our California refineries 
who headed to Pascagoula and assisted in the relief.

28

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:20 pm  Page 29

The Gautier Academy is one of 39 licensed day 
care facilities in Jackson County, Mississippi, that
Pascagoula Refinery employees helped restore 
after the hurricanes.

The extraordinary efforts of Bryan Thrailkill (above)
and Jay Butts, two Chevron operators at the Galena
Terminal near Houston, Texas, were unseen by the
public but felt by customers desperately in need 
of motor fuel. To read the account, please visit our
Web site [2]. 

During Hurricane Katrina, Chevron’s Larry Kirchner,
a manufacturing specialist, took refuge in
Meadowcrest Hospital outside New Orleans,
Louisiana, along with his son and wife, a hospital 
lab technician. He relied on his instincts and 
skills for four gut-wrenching days to help keep 
the hospital operational and patients secure. 
To read the account, please visit our Web site [3].

Providing Relief to Our Communities Two days following
Hurricane Katrina, we committed $5 million toward relief efforts,
directing $3 million of these funds to the American Red Cross
and earmarking $2 million for local organizations that serve
communities close to the company’s operations. This amount
was later supplemented with an additional $3 million pledge,
bringing our total contribution to $8 million in support of local
recovery efforts. A complete list of all our hurricane-related
contributions is available on our Web site [ 1]. 

The company offered many forms of urgently needed assistance,
such as transporting 79 pallets of blankets, more than 2,000
cots and hundreds of comfort kits to a staging area in Alabama.
Waivers were obtained from Mississippi authorities to allow
Chevron truck drivers through areas that bypassed impassible
roads in order to deliver water and ice to Pascagoula and
nearby communities. Tetanus and hepatitis A shots also were
donated to these communities. After Hurricane Katrina, many
evacuees relocated initially to Houston. We worked with the
local school district and other partners to provide shoes, socks,
backpacks and school supplies for students enrolling in two
elementary schools that were reopened to accommodate the
massive influx of children. In addition, we provided more than
40,000 meals from our mobile barbeque in Houston and 
Port Arthur, Texas. The combined value of all donated goods
and services Chevron contributed was estimated at more 
than $500,000.

In Jackson County, Mississippi, where Pascagoula is located,
Chevron’s day care recovery effort restored 39 licensed day
care facilities. Five of the centers had to be completely
reconstructed, requiring new furniture, appliances, books 
and developmental toys.

Our most critical role in the community is to reliably supply
energy, and one of our first priorities was to supply fuel to
police, sheriff and fire departments, the Red Cross, and
hospitals to help ensure their ability to support relief efforts.
Fuel was also supplied to the Mississippi Power Company to
help restore power to local communities.

Minimizing Environmental Damage In anticipation of any
significant storm, Chevron employees follow a series of 
pre-established steps to safely shut down crude oil and 
natural gas production, refineries, pipelines, other petroleum
operations, and office facilities. The majority of our sites
withstood the force of both storms, thereby avoiding
widespread environmental damage. Safety devices on
numerous types of facilities, including oil platforms and
pipelines, also prevented or minimized environmental impact 
to equipment that did sustain major damage.

The overpowering force of Hurricane Katrina, however, caused 
two oil spills. The largest spill took place when a Chevron
storage tank in Empire, Louisiana, was ripped apart and
released an estimated 33,900 barrels of crude oil. A smaller
spill, approximately 1,300 barrels, involved a Chevron pipeline 
at Port Fourchon, Louisiana. With the approval of appropriate
federal and state environmental agencies, teams of specially
trained emergency response personnel immediately went to
work containing and cleaning up these spill areas.

“ I express the deepest appreciation and admiration for

what the people of Chevron have done for this community
and for what you have enabled the Red Cross to do for 
our clients. Cell phones, a copier/fax machine, generators,
shelter supplies – our needs were met with a simple phone
call. You are a stellar example of what ‘community’ truly
means. It is an honor to call Chevron our partner.”

Paige Roberts, Director 
Jackson County, Mississippi, Chapter of the American Red Cross

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/hurricanes/
[2] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/galena/
[3] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/hospital/

29

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:20 pm  Page 30

After the Asian Tsunami: Chevron’s
Commitment to Recovery and Rebuilding
We responded to the 2004 tsunami with
immediate disaster assistance as well 
as sustained support. We are investing 
$10 million over three years to be used for
long-term recovery and rebuilding efforts 
in South Asia and specifically targeting
resources to areas that were hardest hit.
Prior to being acquired by Chevron, Unocal
invested more than $3 million in long-term
recovery projects in Thailand and Indonesia.
Following are two examples of long-term
projects initiated in 2005.

Managing Mangrove Resources (Thailand)
We are supporting research on the benefit
of mangroves, salt-tolerant trees and shrubs
that serve as a coastline buffer, because
tsunami-related damage was less where
mangrove conservation existed. The
Thailand Environment Institute will initially
create three community demonstrations
addressing mangrove rehabilitation and
sustainable use. Best practices will then be
used to expand the project to at least 10
more village clusters. Our project funding
totaled $430,000.

Managers Yanto Sianipar (front) and Fred Nelson in Indonesia participated in a routine emergency
response exercise, and any gaps found were closed. The training, which took place just a few weeks
before the tsunami hit, allowed the managers to act quickly to locate employees after the devastation.

Assisting in Short-Term Recovery Efforts

Addressing Numerous Employee Needs To help meet the
ongoing short-term needs of employees facing hurricane-
related hardships, several initiatives were launched. These
included setting up additional temporary housing facilities 
near Chevron Oronite Company’s Oak Point plant just 
outside New Orleans; in Lafayette, Louisiana, where many 
New Orleans–based employees were stationed; and in 
Picayune, Mississippi, where company aircraft operations are
located. At year-end 2005, we were still providing temporary
housing for 756 employees and family members in seven
separate locations.

Chevron also provided nearly $9 million in assistance to
approximately 3,100 employees in need of cash, which included
tax-free payments and loans through the company’s Natural
Disaster Assistance for Employees program. In addition, the
company’s Employee Assistance and Work/Life Services were
expanded to provide support and counseling services for
employees and their family members dealing with the
psychological impact of the disasters.

Throughout the company, there was an outpouring of concern
among employees wishing to help their fellow employees. 
The Chevron Humanitarian Relief Fund was activated, providing
employees and retirees an avenue to donate funds that would
directly benefit affected employees. Contributions made by 
Nov. 30, 2005, were matched dollar for dollar by Chevron. 

Employees and retirees in at least 30 countries donated to the
fund, which totaled more than $1.5 million after the company’s
donation. The funds were distributed to more than 300
employees in grants of $5,000 each. We established an
intranet site to facilitate offers of help from employees, 
which included rooming accommodations for displaced
employees. An online bulletin board also was launched so 
that employees could exchange information on colleagues’
well-being and whereabouts.

Former Unocal employees also made contributions through the
Unocal Foundation Worldplace Giving Program just as a deadline
for post-acquisition donations approached. In just three days,
these employees contributed nearly $47,000 to the American
Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund. The foundation matched these
contributions, making the total contribution $94,000.

Resuming the Supply of Energy Ensuring our employees’ needs
were being met was essential in order to support a critical
community priority: the safe and incident-free resumption of
crude oil and natural gas production and refinery operations,
and the delivery of motor fuel and energy products to the
communities needing them the most.

Following Hurricane Katrina, the oil industry experienced a 
25 percent shutdown of all U.S. crude oil production and more
than 14 percent of natural gas production. In addition, U.S.
gasoline supplies were reduced by approximately 10 percent.
Notably, Hurricane Rita did greater harm to the nation’s energy
markets than Katrina, closing down virtually all Gulf of Mexico
production of crude oil and 80 percent of natural gas. Refinery
production capacity in the Gulf Coast region was diminished as
a result of both hurricanes.

A number of significant disruptions to the company’s operations
occurred during and after both storms. One challenge was
repairing damage done to the Pascagoula Refinery and its
marine terminal. Six weeks of incident-free work resulted in
fully restoring operations ahead of schedule, enabling it to
resume production of typically 5 million gallons of gasoline
daily, as well as other petroleum products. Operations at our
Empire and Fourchon pipeline terminals in Louisiana were
restored after several weeks.

Following both hurricanes, we worked with federal and state
governments to help them understand the impact of the storms
on fuel supplies and infrastructure, and we recommended steps
that would help restore supplies as quickly as possible. The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and state agencies provided

30

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:20 pm  Page 31

Vocational Training Alliance (Indonesia)
We have pledged up to $5 million to a
partnership with the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID). 
We earmarked $1 million for a vocational
training program for more than 120
students, aged 18 to 22, selected from
dozens of tsunami-affected villages in
Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam and on Nias.

In July 2005, students began arriving at
Politeknik Caltex Riau in Pekanbaru for 
the first session of a three-month training
program in areas such as building

construction, electrical wiring, welding,
bookkeeping and computer applications.
These skills were identified as necessary 
for the reconstruction of tsunami-affected
areas. Upon completion of the program,
students received a certificate that 
identified their skill level, tools and
equipment for their line of business, and a
list of references that potential employers
could contact. We provided participating
students with transportation, training, 
room and board, and clothing. By the end of
2005, more than 120 students had graduated.

Young people from tsunami-devastated areas of
Indonesia learn computer and accounting skills 
at the Chevron-supported training program at
Politeknik Caltex Riau.

numerous emergency waivers of localized fuel specifications
that made fuel supplies more fungible and significantly
reduced the severity of the supply disruptions.

Meanwhile, offshore employees on drilling platforms worked
around the clock to restore production. In three weeks, they
reached 56 percent of pre-Katrina levels while sustaining very
few minor incidents. Hurricane Rita did further damage to a
number of production facilities, including the Typhoon tension-
leg platform, which was severed from its mooring. The platform
was located and secured shortly after the storm. By the end 
of 2005, 70 percent of overall capacity had been restored in
the Gulf.

Prepaying Taxes to Support Local Municipalities As local
government agencies in Louisiana and Mississippi responded 
to the immediate and prolonged crisis, their cash reserves 
were quickly drained, and incoming tax revenues slowed to 
a trickle. To provide some funding stability, we elected to
prepay more than $18.4 million toward the company’s local
property taxes to the city of New Orleans and to Cameron,
Vermilon and Plaquemines parishes in Louisiana, and to
Jackson County, Mississippi.

Impact on Our Business As a result of the hurricanes, we
estimated that earnings were reduced by approximately 
$1.4 billion in 2005. About half of the impact occurred in the
company’s fourth quarter. The hurricane effects included 
a reduction in crude oil and natural gas production, costs 
for repairs and maintenance of both offshore and onshore
facilities, asset write-offs, and expenses for other uninsured
storm-related items.

Our Commitment to Long-Term Recovery

Helping Employees Rebuild Their Lives We established a
Hurricane Case Management Center to provide employees a
central resource for resolving long-term, complex issues beyond

what our current system could support. Employees who contact
the center are assigned a case manager who offers assistance 
on accessing resources – from pre-qualified home contractors 
to information about the Chevron Humanitarian Relief Fund. 
By providing a single point of contact, the center has helped
alleviate much of the frustration and confusion employees face 
as they work to rebuild their lives. By early 2006, more than 300
employees had used the center.

Lending Support to Chevron and Texaco Retailers Many Chevron
and Texaco fuel stations suffered hurricane-related damage,
and some were declared a total loss. In response, the Chevron
and Texaco Hurricane Recovery program was launched to
provide financial assistance to dealers so they could rebuild
their stations and make necessary repairs. More than 320
dealers received this assistance.

Rebuilding Local Communities We have begun exploring ways
to support the long-term reconstruction of communities in 
the Gulf Coast region. Our efforts will align with our broader
community engagement approach and focus on critical areas,
which may include community rebuilding efforts, education and
economic redevelopment.

We have already begun consulting with key stakeholders – from
government agencies to community representatives – in order
to identify potential partnerships and coordinate our efforts
with other emerging reconstruction plans. Our approach will
also include conducting a needs assessment in the affected
communities where our employees live and work. This will help
determine the best ways for us to invest funds, resources,
technical support and expertise. Metrics will be established to
evaluate outcomes and successes. Lastly, we will openly share
the results and lessons learned from our ongoing efforts with
our employees, business colleagues and the local communities
so they are informed of our firm commitment to help revitalize
this region.

31

212363A4_K  20/4/06  7:20 pm  Page 32

About This
Report

Glossary

This report covers 2005 data and activities. 
We also occasionally mention events that took
place in early 2006 when they help provide a
clearer picture of our performance. This report
covers our owned or operated businesses and
does not address the performance of our
suppliers, contractors or partners unless
otherwise noted. All financial information is
reported in U.S. dollars. Our previous report 
was published in August 2005 and covered 
2004 data and activities.

Information contained in this report has not been
subject to external assurance, with the exception
of data included in the company’s consolidated
financial statements and our 2002 and 2003
greenhouse gas emissions data.

We continue to be informed by reporting
frameworks and guidelines that include the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and
Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability
Reporting, published in 2005 by the International
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum
Institute (API). We have included an index to help
readers find information corresponding to the
GRI and API/IPIECA indicators (see facing page).

In August 2005, Chevron completed a major
acquisition of the energy company Unocal
Corporation. We have integrated Unocal data as
of Aug. 1, 2005, wherever parallel information
existed for both companies, following Chevron’s
practice for consolidated financial reporting.
Where this was not possible, it is noted in the
data charts.

Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-
Looking Information
This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron
Corporation contains forward-looking statements
relating to the manner in which Chevron intends
to conduct certain of our activities, based on
management’s current plans and expectations.
These statements are not promises or guarantees
of future conduct or policy and are subject to a
variety of uncertainties and other factors, many
of which are beyond our control. 

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities,
including the development, implementation 
or continuation of any program, policy or initiative
discussed or forecast in this report may differ
materially in the future. The reader should not
place any undue reliance upon such forward-
looking statements, which speak only as of the
date of this report. Chevron undertakes no
obligation to publicly update any statements
contained in this report.

Legal Notice 
As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and
such terms as “the company,” “the corporation,”
“their,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may refer 
to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated
subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken
as a whole. All of these terms are used for
convenience only and are not intended as a
precise description of any of the separate
entities, each of which manages its own affairs. 

Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A unit of measure
to quantify crude oil and natural gas amounts
using the same basis. Natural gas volumes are
converted to barrels on the basis of energy
content. See Production. 

Nongovernmental organization (NGO)
An organization that is independent from
government, generally a nonprofit organization
devoted to providing assistance to or advancing
a particular cause or issue. 

Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on 
earth. It encompasses genes, species, habitats and
ecosystems, and the processes that support them. 

Business Conduct and Ethics Code Describes
proper business conduct within Chevron and
includes an overview of several of the most
important laws and policies governing that
conduct. All employees and board members
must understand and comply with the code.

Capacity building A key area of focus for
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which
means targeting support toward programs that
help individuals and institutions develop the skills,
capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.

The Chevron Way Explains our values: who we
are, what we do, what we believe and what we
plan to accomplish. 

Condensates Liquid hydrocarbons produced with
natural gas, separated by cooling and other means. 

Downstream The industry term used to refer 
to all petroleum activities, from the process of
refining crude oil into petroleum products to the
distribution, marketing and sales of the products. 

Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) A process implemented 
by our international upstream organization 
to identify, evaluate and mitigate potential 
project-related environmental, social and 
health impacts; directly linked to our project
development process, the ESHIA process
improves life-cycle project decision making,
incorporates stakeholder engagement, and 
helps make sure project impacts are eliminated
or mitigated and benefits enhanced.

Flaring and venting The burning or release of
natural gas that is often produced in association
with crude oil, a process that typically occurs
when there is no market or onsite use for the gas.

Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts
natural gas into high-quality transportation fuels. 

Geothermal energy A renewable source of
energy that uses the heat energy of the earth to
produce electricity or to use directly for heating.

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
A multistakeholder process and independent
institution whose mission is to develop and
disseminate globally applicable sustainability
reporting guidelines. 

Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap 
heat in the earth’s atmosphere; such gases
include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and 
sulfur hexafluoride. 

ISO 14001 Environmental management system
standard developed by the International
Standards Organization.

Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to
facilitate storage or transportation in specially
designed vessels. 

Operating company A major Chevron company
organized for a specific business purpose. 

Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to
systematic management of safety, health, 
the environment, reliability and efficiency in
order to achieve world-class performance. 

OHSAS 18001 An international Occupational
Health and Safety Assessment Series
management system specification.

Operator Term used to describe a company
appointed by venture stakeholders to take
primary responsibility for day-to-day operations
for a specific plant or activity.

Partner In this report, partner is used in its
broad sense to mean a person or organization
associated with another in a common activity 
or one that shares a mutual interest. It does 
not imply a member of a contractual partnership
in which the partners jointly own and carry on 
a business and proportionally share in liabilities,
profits or losses of the business. 

Production Total production refers to all the
crude oil and natural gas produced from a property.
Gross production is the company’s share of 
total production before deducting royalties. 
Net production is gross production minus royalties
paid to landowners. See Barrels of oil-equivalent. 

Renewable energy Energy resources that are
not depleted when consumed or converted 
into other forms of energy (for example, solar,
geothermal, ocean and tide, and wind). 

Reserves Crude oil or natural gas contained in
underground rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities
that geologic and engineering data demonstrate
can be produced with reasonable certainty 
from known reservoirs under existing economic
and operating conditions. Estimates change as
additional information becomes available. 

Revenue transparency Refers to the practice of
disclosing certain financial arrangements related
to energy industry operations by industry and
host governments. 

Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate
interest in our company’s performance. 

Transparency Making relevant and accurate
information available to those with a legitimate
interest in the organization. 

Upstream Industry term for crude oil and
natural gas exploration and production activities.

Voluntary Principles on Security and Human
Rights Principles developed by extractive-sector
companies, human rights organizations, trade
unions and the U.S. and U.K. governments to
guide companies in maintaining the safety and
security of their operations within a framework
that ensures respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms.

32

212363A4_CVR_K  20/4/06  7:23 pm  Page 3

GRI and API/IPIECA Index

This index refers to: 
(cid:2) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially reported. 
(cid:2) American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (API/IPIECA) sustainability reporting indicators.

Some of the information responsive to these indicators appears in the Web version of this report [ 1] or on www.chevron.com.
Specific references to those sites are included on the pages noted. For a more detailed indicator index, please visit our Web site. 

VISION AND STRATEGY

PROFILE

GRI
(Additional indicators in italics)
1.1  1.2

Organizational Profile   2.1 2.2 2.3  2.4 2.5–2.9 
Report Scope  2.10 2.11–2.13 2.14 2.15  2.16  
Report Profile  2.17  2.18 2.19 2.20 2.21 2.22

API/IPIECA 
(Additional indicators in italics)

GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Structure and Governance  3.1  3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6  3.7 3.8
Stakeholder Engagement  3.9–3.11  3.12 
Overarching Policies and Management Systems  3.13 3.14
3.15 3.16  3.17 3.18 3.19  3.20
GRI Content Index  4.1

ENV-6  H&S-1

ECONOMIC

ENVIRONMENTAL

Customers  EC1 EC2
Suppliers  EC3 EC4
Employees  EC5
Providers of Capital  EC6 EC7
Public Sector  EC8 EC9 EC10
Indirect Economic Impacts  EC13

Materials  EN1  EN2
Energy  EN3 EN4 EN17
Water  EN5  
Biodiversity  EN6 EN7  EN27
Emissions, Effluents and Waste  EN8 EN9 EN10 EN11  EN12
EN13 EN30
Products and Services  EN14 EN15
Compliance  EN16
Transport  EN34
Overall  EN35

ECO-A2
ECO-2  ECO-3 ECO-A3
ECO-1  ECO-A1 SOC-A4

ENV-5  ENV-A8
ENV-A7
ENV-A9
ENV-1 ENV-A1 ENV-2 ENV-A2 ENV-3 ENV-A3
ENV-4 ENV-A4  ENV-A5 ENV-A6

SOCIAL
Labor Practices and Decent Work

Human Rights

Society

Product Responsibility

Employment  LA1  LA2
Employee Satisfaction
Labor/Management Relations  LA3 LA4
Health and Safety  LA5  LA6 LA7  LA8
Training and Education  LA9
Diversity and Opportunity  LA10  LA11
Strategy and Management  HR1 HR2 HR3  
Nondiscrimination  HR4
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  HR5
Child Labor  HR6
Forced and Compulsory Labor  HR7
Disciplinary Practices  HR10
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Community  SO1
Bribery and Corruption  SO2
Political Contributions  SO3  SO5
Competition and Pricing  SO7
Customer Health and Safety  PR1
Products and Services  PR2
Respect for Privacy  PR3

SOC-A3
SOC-A2

H&S-2  H&S-3 H&S-4
SOC-5

SOC-1
SOC-4
SOC-7

SOC-6
SOC-9
SOC-A6
SOC-A4  SOC-A5  SOC-A7 SOC-8
SOC-2
SOC-3 SOC-A1

H&S-5

Where reported

2, 8, 10–14

1, 3
1, 2, 32
1, 32

8, 12, 13
4, 14, 15
5, 8, 10–14, 16–17 

33

5
5
5
5
4–5, 16–17, 27–31
5, 16–17, 27–31

–
24–26
–
13, 23, 27–31
22–25, 29

13
23, 26
13
26

6
6–7
6
2, 19–21
6–7
6–7
18
18
18
18
18
6, 12
18
–
14, 16–17
12
15
12
21
21
–

Key to Indicators
Fully Reported in 2005
Partially Reported in 2005
Not Covered in 2005
Not Applicable

[ 1 ] www.chevron.com/cr_report/2005/

212363A4_CVR_K  20/4/06  7:23 pm  Page 4

Chevron’s Jackson County, Mississippi, Day Care Recovery Team, shown here, restored 39 licensed day 
care facilities in the months following Hurricane Katrina. Team members (from left) are Chevron retirees 
Don Hansford and Ray Dunnam and employees Amy Brandenstein and Steve Renfroe. 

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
www.chevron.com

This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine–free and produced using wind energy.

© 2006 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.  

913-0386C  25M  4/06

l
f
.

w
w
w
g
a

l

F

y
b

n
g
i
s
e
D

.

k
u
o
c
g
a

.

 
 
 
