2018  
corporate responsibility  
report highlights

human energy

for complete reporting,  
visit chevron.com/cr

we are in the business of progress

At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global  
energy company most admired for its people, partnership  
and performance. We enable human progress by developing the  
energy that improves lives and powers the world forward.

read more  chevron.com/chevronway

Since our industry’s inception, energy has continued to evolve on 
different paths, at different speeds in different geographies.  
Chevron partners with one of the longest-serving international  
nongovernmental organizations in Myanmar, Pact, to deliver affordable, 
renewable solar energy to homes and communities. The Ahlin Yaung 
program, meaning “light” in Burmese, has enabled over 240,000  
people to benefit from solar energy, including helping households to 
shift from kerosene and wood-based energy sources to solar.

On the cover: Daw Win Mar, a crop farmer in the Kyauk Se Lay  
village of Myanmar, is a beneficiary of the Ahlin Yaung program.  
To learn more about our social investments worldwide, see  
chevron.com/creatingprosperity.

a message from our  
chairman and  
chief executive officer

This year, Chevron celebrates  
an important milestone  
in our company’s history— 
our 140th anniversary  
of enabling human progress 
around the world.

We strive to uphold this proud legacy every day as we deliver  
the affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy that life depends 
on. We are in the business of progress, and our work helps billions 
of people achieve better living standards, access to education, 
longer and healthier lives, and social and economic opportunities.

Helping people improve their quality of life is a tremendous 
responsibility. It’s why we work. And it’s why Chevron supports  
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to deliver  
value for global societies.

Today, about 40 percent of the world’s citizens, or 3 billion people, 
have access to only rudimentary forms of energy. Each of these 
people deserves better access to energy and the better quality of 
life it provides. In the decades ahead, energy demand is expected 
to surge more than 25 percent, driven by rising incomes and 
population growth.

As more energy—and more different forms of energy—is required  
to power the world forward, more of the population will depend  
on Chevron and our people, partnerships and performance.

We partner with thousands of business, government and nonprofit 
organizations to expand health, education and economic develop-
ment in the communities where we operate. To further promote 
prosperity in these communities, Chevron has spent $154 billion on 
goods and services and more than $1 billion on social investments 
globally in the past five years. 

Our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights includes  
key environmental, social and governance advancements we have 

Above: Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth engages with colleagues during a visit to  
Chevron’s offices in Angola.

achieved by honoring The Chevron Way—the touchstone that 
guides our actions. We do business the right and responsible way, 
and in this report, you will read about the actions we’re taking to 
engage our diverse workforce; manage risks; keep people healthy 
and safe; protect the environment; respect human rights; and 
address climate change.

Protecting the environment is at the core of The Chevron Way.  
We share society’s concerns as governments pursue the  
goals expressed in the Paris Agreement. Every day, we work to 
make the world’s energy ever-cleaner and our environmental 
footprint smaller. Those opportunities range from ensuring robust 
water management techniques to reducing plastic waste in the 
environment to partnering with companies and investing  
in technology that directly removes carbon dioxide from the air.

Chairman’s letter continues on Page 2

chevron.com/cr
1

Above: Wirth received a briefing on our Angolan field operations during a visit in 2018.

Delivering those opportunities will require Chevron’s greatest  
asset—our people. How we work and how we respond to 
challenges must continue evolving, to ensure we continue 
delivering human progress.

Chevron has always been defined by our problem solvers—
innovators driven to help enable economic, social and individual 
opportunity for people who aspire to better lives. Affordable, 
reliable and cleaner energy is essential to enabling this human 
progress. And just as Chevron has provided the energy that  
helped our world prosper over the past 140 years, we will continue 
to partner with you—our stakeholders and shareholders—to  
deliver energy in the future.

Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer
May 2019

chevron.com/cr
2

awards and recognition

corporate responsibility 
Dow Jones Sustainability  
North America Index

Forbes and JUST Capital JUST 100

Ministry of Thailand 
Thailand Energy Awards 2018  
Outstanding Energy Conservation in Transport 

workforce
Corporate Equality Index  
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 

Glassdoor Employees’ Choice  
Best Places to Work in 2019

National Business Inclusion Consortium  
Best-of-the-Best Corporations for Inclusion

Rigzone Ideal Employer Rankings

Women’s Choice Award  
Best Companies for Women

Women's Business Enterprise National Council  
Top Corporation Hall of Fame  
for Women’s Business Enterprises

identifying issues  
through continuous  
engagement

environment

social

governance

our corporate responsibility 
reporting focuses on  
environmental, social and  
governance (ESG) issues that 
matter to our stakeholders—
investors, customers,  
host governments, local  
communities and employees

learn more  chevron.com/ESGreporting 

issue prioritization process 

To select content for our 2018 Corporate Responsibility  
Report Highlights and the corporate responsibility section of 
chevron.com, we interviewed subject matter experts from  
across our business segments to identify and validate relevant  
ESG topics. In addition, Chevron worked with a research firm  
that conducted anonymous surveys of institutional investors, 
nongovernmental organizations and other external stakeholders. 
These stake holders identified the same issues highlighted in  
the previous year’s report. Chevron’s Global Issues Com mittee,  
a subcommittee of Chevron’s Executive Committee, reviewed  
and validated our assessment and prioritization.

stockholder engagement 

Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder 
trust and goodwill are core Chevron values. Through our Investor 
Relations and Corporate Governance departments, we engage 
with stockholders to discuss operational, financial, governance, 
executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and  
policy issues. 

In 2018, our ESG Engagement team had substantive engagements 
representing more than 52 percent of Chevron’s outstanding 
common stock. This team met with all stockholders who submitted 
proxy proposals to discuss their concerns and potential areas  
for agreement.

employee engagement 

Chevron employees have solved some of history’s most complex 
energy challenges. Today we are equipping and inspiring our  
workforce to do the same while also anticipating those on the  
horizon. Through continuous engagement and increased connec-
tivity, we are nurturing our greatest resources—human ingenuity, 
creativity and imagination—to shape our ESG contributions  
around the world.

In order to bring together minds from around the world, we 
launched an internal social network, Workplace by Facebook, to 
create a more connected, inclusive work environment. By the end 
of 2018, more than half of our workforce had created accounts, and 
more than 2,000 discussion groups had been created to enable 
people to connect, share, collaborate and innovate for the future.

chevron.com/cr
3

the ESG issues  
that matter to our  
stakeholders  
and our business

vision

environment

social

governance

performance

1
a message from our 
chairman and chief 
executive officer

3
identifying issues 
through continuous 
engagement
We identify ESG issues that 
matter to our stakeholders.

6
protecting 
the environment
We protect the environment 
through innovative and 
responsible operations.

8
addressing 
climate change
We take prudent and  
cost-effective actions to 
manage climate change 
business risks and pursue 
opportunities to lower 
our emissions and develop 
lower-carbon energy.

10
managing 
water resources
Water is a societal, 
environmental and 
economic resource.

26
getting results 
the right way
We are committed to 
strong governance and the 
highest standards of ethics.

35
performance 
data
Our quantitative 
environmental, safety 
and social performance.

40
additional 
information

28
prioritizing 
our culture of 
operational
excellence
We manage health, safety 
and environmental risks. 

30
operating safely 
and reliably
We keep our people, 
our partners and 
the environment safe.

32
engaging our 
stakeholders
We are committed to 
working the right and 
responsible way.

13
valuing diversity 
and inclusion
Our people are our most 
valuable resource.

16
creating 
prosperity
We believe our business 
succeeds best when 
our communities succeed. 

20
contributing to 
the united nations 
sustainable 
development goals
We continue to help 
solve the world’s most 
complex challenges.

22
respecting 
human rights
Enabling human progress 
begins with respecting 
human rights.

chevron.com/cr
chevron.com/cr
4
4

focusing on 
environmental 
issues

6
protecting 
the environment

8
addressing 
climate change

10
managing 
water resources

chevron.com/cr
5

protecting  
the environment

we protect the environment  
through innovative  
and responsible operations

learn more  chevron.com/environment

We are committed to pursuing innovations that improve our  
environmental performance and reduce the potential environ-
mental impacts of our operations. 

This commitment is built into the way we manage our operations. 
Our Operational Excellence Management System establishes 
standards and objectives that extend from the corporate level  
to local management, allowing our businesses to focus on the  
risks and potential environmental issues that affect specific 
operating locations.

innovating to reduce our environmental impact

Innovative technologies help us assess and manage our 
environmental performance. Here are some examples from  
across our company.

Leak imaging 
Leak imaging provides real-time visuals to help find gas and  
liquid leaks that might otherwise go undetected. Hand-held, port-
able leak imagers, also called gas detection cameras, are used  
for proactive leak detection and regulatory compliance. Chevron 
is an industry leader in piloting new automated leak detection 
imagers that monitor around the clock. This technology enables 
earlier detection, more ground coverage and better source 
identification than traditional methods, improving Chevron’s 
environmental performance. 

Remote sensing 
Remote sensing from satellites and aerial platforms provides 
crucial data to support effective oil spill responses. In 2018, we 
conducted an oil spill drill in the Gulf of Mexico that tested remote 
sensing approaches to evaluate their capabilities and enhance  
our ability to respond. Technologies tested included:

•  Satellite radar and optical sensors

•   A high-resolution real-time aerial imaging system

•  An airborne multispectral oil imaging sensor

•  Robotic aerial systems

•  Aerostat-based capabilities

This drill provided emergency responders with hands-on 
experience in how to use and incorporate these technologies  
into our operations.

environmental DNA

Chevron uses biodiversity monitoring to identify  
and manage the potential impacts of our operations 
on sensitive biological resources. 

Traditional methods rely on observation or collection 
of species, both of which are labor-intensive and  
are representative only of the point in time they were 
taken. Recent advances in rapid DNA sequencing 
technology have unveiled a powerful biodiversity 
monitoring tool called environmental DNA (eDNA).  
By analyzing DNA fragments in seawater, fresh water, 
soil and sediment, eDNA can provide advanced 
warning of potential threats, such as invasive species 
and changes in biodiversity composition well before 
they could be detected by traditional methods. 
Chevron is using this technology to more efficiently 
and effectively: 

•   Develop pre-operational baseline assessments 

•   Detect rare, endangered and/or invasive species

•  Monitor subterranean fauna

explore how  
we protect the  
environment  
in australia

chevron.com/habitat

Previous page: Mangroves are a group of trees or shrubs in tropical coastal areas that 
are flooded at high tide. Their roots typically form dense thickets and support a wide 
variety of species. In Australia, our engineers developed a unique micro-tunneling 
technique to bore underneath the Ashburton River Delta and protect this habitat while 
connecting the Wheatstone production field with the liquefied natural gas facility.

chevron.com/cr
7

addressing 
climate change

we take prudent and cost-effective actions to  
manage climate change business risks,  
pursue opportunities to lower our emissions  
and develop lower-carbon energy

learn more  chevron.com/climatechange

explore more on our  
ongoing efforts to  
address climate change

addressing concerns about climate change

Chevron shares the concerns of governments and the public 
about a rapidly changing climate. We integrate climate change 
into our business decisions to help us analyze potential risks 
and identify new opportunities to lower emissions and develop 
cleaner energy. In February 2019, we published Update to Climate 
Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making. The update 
builds upon our two previous reports and describes our voluntary 
reporting on climate-related issues involving governance, risk 
management, business strategy, actions and investments. As the 
world’s energy needs grow and change, we remain focused on 
improving current sources of energy and scaling future solutions  
to deliver greater benefit to communities, with fewer environ-
mental impacts.

Managing greenhouse gases
We’re seeking ways to reduce emissions while improving our 
operations. In 2018, our Board of Directors established greenhouse 
gas emissions performance measures, targeting a 20 to 25 percent  
reduction in methane emissions intensity and a 25 to 30 percent  
reduction in flaring intensity by 2023, in line with the first “stock-
take” under the Paris Agreement. Beginning in 2019, we will tie 
compensation for executives and nearly all other employees to the 
results of these efforts. We will report our progress in the 2020 
Annual Proxy Statement.

chevron.com/cr
8

Chevron has invested approximately $1.1 billion in carbon capture, 
utilization and storage projects. These projects are expected  
to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by about 5 million 
metric tons per year, roughly equivalent to the GHG emissions of 
620,000 U.S. homes’ annual electricity usage. In 2018, we joined 
the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a global collaboration to address 
energy industry climate change issues. Metrics for our GHG 
emissions are on Pages 35–36. 

Investing in emerging energy sources
To help us make the best decisions about emerging energy sources, 
we are conducting research and development and collaborating 
with government, academia and other stakeholders on alternative 
fuels and emission reduction opportunities. Renewable energy 
sources are part of the equation. Biofuels, such as renewable diesel, 
complement conventional transportation fuels and can help reduce 
overall carbon emissions. For example, in 2018 we began selling 
a renewable diesel product, R99, to commercial customers. It is 
made of nonpetroleum sources, such as natural fats, vegetable oils 
and greases.

Chevron Technology Ventures established the Future Energy  
Fund to invest in emerging technologies that reduce carbon  
emis sions. An initial commitment of $100 million launched the  
fund. A first investment went to ChargePoint, one of the largest 
operators of electric-vehicle charging networks, with 57,000 
locations. ChargePoint is using this investment to expand its 
network in North America and Europe. 

We are scanning the landscape for the next opportunity to lower 
our emissions, discover smarter and cleaner energy, and apply talent  
and expertise to push the boundaries of energy’s next frontier.

~45,000

of our employees around the world 
will have a portion of their variable 
compensation tied to reducing  
GHG emissions intensity through our 
flaring and methane metrics

See Pages 35–36 for climate-related  
performance data.

chevron.com/cr
9

researching carbon  
capture technologies

Betty Pun (pictured), a carbon capture specialist in 
Chevron’s Energy Technology Company, is part of 
a team that researches carbon capture and storage 
as a way of effectively reducing the footprint of 
hydrocarbons. Her team focuses on capturing CO2 
directly from the air, and they work with other oil 
companies on research they hope one day will have 
broad applications for industry.

“We’re simply trying to put the carbon back where we 
got it from,” she says. The scale of the CO2 challenge 
will require more than one solution and more than one 
technology. “Our research could benefit everyone,” 
she says.

Much of Pun’s work is on joint industrial projects,  
which involves strategic thinking to ensure good out-
comes for all participating companies. Another part  
of her job is the evaluation of new technologies, 
including those funded by government, that need 
additional work before finding applications in oil and 
gas and other industries.

“I like to look at things from many angles,” she says 
of the value she brings to the job. “That is how we 
find win-win solutions to complicated challenges.”

managing  
water resources

water is a societal, environmental  
and economic resource

learn more  chevron.com/water

reducing fresh water use

Our Upstream operations have reduced  
the amount of fresh water withdrawn from the 
environment by 25 percent since 2014.  
See Page 35 for more on Chevron’s water usage.

s
r
e
t
e
m
c
i
b
u
c
n
o

i
l
l
i

M

100

75

50

25

0

Above: Our Upstream operations reuse approximately 75 percent of the water that is 
brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas. In California (pictured) and Indonesia, 
we reuse this water by heating and reinjecting it into another well to enhance production 
processes, rather than using fresh water.

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

Upstream
Upstream

Reﬁning
Refining

Other
Other

chevron.com/cr
10

 
 
Our ability to partner with communities around the world and 
deliver affordable, reliable and cleaner energy depends on  
access to water. We employ management systems, processes  
and standards to manage this critical natural resource. 

To promote responsible management of water resources, we:

•  Integrate water conservation and efficiency into our  

decision-making processes.

•  Strive to conserve, reuse and recycle water in water- 

constrained areas.

•  Use appropriate metrics to analyze water use.

•  Engage with governments, partners, local communities  
and other stakeholders to protect water resources in  
areas where we operate.

•  Build partnerships and participate in industry water  

resource initiatives to share and promote best practices,  
assist with the development of industry standards and  
shape relevant policy.

creating sustainable water use strategies

In Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO) developed a water use 
strategy that increased conservation, improved water recycling 
and enhanced the flexibility of the water system to meet local 
demand for potable water. To develop this strategy, TCO applied 
water system modeling and scenario analysis to evaluate water 
use in the region. Working in partnership with the regional 
water supplier, TCO analyzed infrastructure limitations, demand 
fluctuations and pricing issues that help ensure sustainable  
water use for the community, particularly in the summer months.  
Sharing TCO’s water management strategy and understanding 
regional issues have resulted in a valuable working relationship, 
benefiting both TCO and the regional population.

collaborating with conservation international  
to limit biodiversity risks

Working with Conservation International, Chevron sponsored 
the design and development of an online tool that identifies 
biodiversity risks to freshwater species. With the new freshwater 
component in the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool  
(IBAT), users can learn about native species, the risks they face  
and how their habitat is connected to sites where we operate.

reducing consumption through innovative  
water reuse practices

Our Upstream operations manage our water resources responsibly 
by reusing approximately 75 percent of the water brought to  
the surface when extracting oil and gas. In California and Indonesia, 
we reuse water by heating and reinjecting it into another well to 
enhance production processes, rather than using fresh water.  
In addition, most of our refineries around the world reuse treated 
wastewater at their locations. These and other practices enable  
us to reduce the amount of fresh water we consume.

water use in  
well completions

In the Permian Basin, more than 99 percent of the  
water used in our well completions in 2018 was  
from nonfresh and recycled produced water sources.

100%

75%

50%

25%

0%

nonfresh  
water

99%+

nonfresh water used  
in well completions in  
2017 and 2018

fresh  
water

2015

2016

2017

2018

additional resources
chevron.com/waterpositionstatement

chevron.com/cr
11

focusing on 
social issues

13
valuing diversity 
and inclusion 

16
creating 
prosperity

20
contributing to 
the united nations 
sustainable 
development goals

22
respecting 
human rights

chevron.com/cr
12

valuing diversity  
and inclusion

our people are our  
most valuable resource

learn more  chevron.com/diversity

Q&A

Chevron’s commitment to  
diversity and inclusion 
includes a set of initiatives  
to ensure all employees  
are empowered to realize 
their full potential.

Rhonda Morris, vice president  
and chief Human Resources officer, 
discusses diversity and inclusion  
with Lee Jourdan, chief diversity  
officer, and Brian Chase, manager of  
strategy and planning for the Office  
of Global Diversity.

Q:    How does Chevron foster 
diversity and inclusion?

A: Attracting and developing individuals  
with different talents, ideas and experiences 
is needed in order to solve the world’s most 
complex problems and challenges. After 
launching The Chevron Way in 1995, we accel-
erated our journey and developed programs  
to leverage the talents of our diverse workforce 
and create a culture of inclusion. Among our 
many initiatives, we’re proud to be the first oil 
and gas company to offer same-sex domestic 
partner and transgender benefits to our U.S. 
employees. We also developed mentoring and 
sponsorship initiatives, as well as programs  
to help employees manage work-life priorities.  
This includes more flexible schedules and 
support for dual-career couples employed  
by Chevron.

A: Accountability is also vital to fostering 
a diverse and inclusive environment. It is 
fundamental to ensuring the proportion of 
women and minorities in leadership increases. 
We hold ourselves accountable in a variety 
of ways. For example, diversity action plans 
are required for nearly every employee, 
including the chairman, and are part of annual 
performance reviews. In addition, each major 
business unit has dedicated committees 
responsible for talent development and  
job selection.

first

We were the first oil and  
gas company to offer  
same-sex domestic partner 
and transgender benefits  
to our U.S. employees.

chevron.com/cr
14

100%

2018 marked the 14th  
consecutive year  
we achieved a score of  
100 percent on the  
Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index.

Q:   How do you describe  

Chevron’s performance  
in this area?

A: We’re making progress, but we’re always 
working to do more. We are proud that for 
the 14th consecutive year, we achieved a 
100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index—a rating focused on 
LGBTQ workplace equality. We are committed  
to providing equal pay for equal work. In the 
U.S., women and minorities at Chevron earn  
99.9 percent of what men and nonminorities  
are paid. However, we recognize there is  
more work to be done.

Q:   Is Chevron doing anything 

unique to improve diversity  
and inclusion? 

A: We are continually looking for ways to 
improve and build a more inclusive culture 
through innovative programs. One key initiative 
is Men Advocating Real Change (MARC),  
which engages men as partners and advocates 
in supporting greater gender inclusion. This is 
especially important in our industry, where men 
make up nearly two-thirds of the workforce.  
We expect to have 17 active MARC chapters in  
11 countries with around 3,000 members by the 
end of 2019, with plans to launch 12 more over 
the next two years on six different continents. 
We believe MARC has the power to create a 
more gender-inclusive workplace, not just at 
Chevron, but across the entire industry.

A: Our commitment to diversity and inclusion 
includes our C-suite. In 2018, Mike Wirth and 
the leadership team held the first meeting with 
our Inclusion Council. This gave 12 employee 
network leaders representing the wide diversity 
of our workforce the opportunity to discuss 
diversity and inclusion issues at the highest levels  
of the company. We also launched our Inclusive 
Leaders Learning Series to equip leaders with  
practical tools to create a more inclusive work  
environment. More than 1,000 leaders partici-
pated in these sessions, and we will expand the 
program even further in 2019. 

additional resources
chevron.com/culture

“We’re making progress,  
but we’re always  
working to do more.” 

— Lee Jourdan  
Chief Diversity Officer

Q:   How does Chevron develop  
a diverse talent pipeline?

A: Our pipeline begins with investing in 
education with a focus on science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics. We actively 
recruit diverse candidates from industry and 
our many university partnerships. We have 
instituted dedicated personnel committees 
responsible for identifying and developing our 
diverse talent. Employees have the opportunity 
to participate in a mentoring program and  
more than 20,000 are involved in employee 
networks that provide support, advice and 
team-building. Chevron also has more than  
15 diversity councils across its business units 
that help management align diversity and 
inclusion efforts with business strategies. 

A: We hire the best and the brightest— 
ranging from college students who enter 
our internship program, to candidates with 
experience outside Chevron. Through our 
University Partnerships and Association 
Relations program, we work with colleges and 
universities to attract and develop talented 
students who will become the next generation 
of leaders and problem solvers. We also 
partner with more than 30 diversity-focused 
professional associations, provide scholarships 
to students every year and have supported 
historically black colleges and universities for 
more than 40 years.

chevron.com/cr
15

creating  
prosperity

we believe our business  
succeeds best when  
our communities succeed

learn more  chevron.com/creatingprosperity

chevron.com/cr
16

$154 billion 
spent

In the past five years, Chevron  
has spent $154 billion globally on 
goods and services, helping  
grow economies, create jobs and  
develop workforces. 

See Page 38 for more information on  
our goods and services spending.

Above: Drill Site Manager Gulzhan Abdukalikova is seen here working in the Tengiz 
Field. Abdukalikova is employed by one of our partners, Fircroft Engineering Services 
Limited, in Kazakhstan.

Our work has made human progress a reality for millions of  
people in the communities where we operate by helping to reduce 
poverty, drive economic and social opportunity, and enable the 
benefits of modern life. We focus on building local capacity  
and making social investments that help communities succeed.

building local capacity

Chevron’s supply chain and workforce investments help develop 
the skills and capabilities needed to boost local economies and 
incomes for years to come. In 2018, we spent $25.1 billion on total 
goods and services, much of it on “local content” with companies 
based in the countries where we operate. We also complement  
this spending with investments of time and technical capabilities  
to help build the capacity of these local companies. 

Investing in Kazakhstan 
By developing and utilizing local goods and services, Tengizchevroil 
(TCO) helps drive Kazakhstan’s economic development. In 2018, 
TCO spent more than $3.5 billion with local businesses.

Previous page: Chevron’s Songkhla Old Town Renovation Project is committed to 
helping local businesses, such as this confectionery store in Songkhla, Thailand.  
The initiative aims to draw local and international visitors to Songkhla Old Town by  
reviving the recently deserted neighborhood into a tourist hot spot, helping existing 
local businesses and opening doors for new enterprises. Chevron has operated at  
the Songkhla shore base since 1981. The company strives to drive economic and social  
development in Songkhla Province, develop quality of life and empower people in  
the local communities.

$3.5 billion+

In 2018, TCO spent more  
than $3.5 billion on  
local goods and services.

In addition to spending on local goods and services, TCO  
also engages our strategic partners, such as Schlumberger, 
Weatherford, KISCO and Compass ESS, to support local 
development. In 2018, we supported local manufacturers that 
produce G-type cement, railcar sulfur covers and industrial 
chemicals. These local content partnerships not only improved 
community development and lowered costs, but they enable  
a more responsive supply chain.

local economic impact

Chevron’s Pascagoula Refinery in Mississippi generated a direct 
economic impact of more than $925 million in 2018. As Jackson 
County’s largest taxpayer, the refinery contributed $20.5 million in 
property taxes to the county and $26.8 million to the Pascagoula-
Gautier School District for 2018.

chevron.com/cr
17

partnership with pact 
improves lives

Over the past 16 years, Chevron’s partnership with  
Pact, one of the longest-serving international NGOs  
in Myanmar, has improved the lives of more than  
1.25 million adults and children through improved  
access to health care, sanitation and electricity, 
microfinance training for women, and the establish-
ment of more than 1,400 village development  
funds. Chevron’s $9 million commitment catalyzed  
an additional $10 million from other organizations.

livelihoods

Almost 15,500  
women meet weekly  
in savings groups

1,476 village 
development funds 
have been established

natural resource  
management

339 villages  
use solar lampposts

More than 240,000 
people have improved 
access to electricity

health

Almost 19,000 
malnourished children 
improved weight

More than 850,000 
people have improved 
access to health care

Above: NDPI works with cassava farmers, such as Kingsley Ojeah (pictured),  
to improve their practices, facilitate the adoption of new technologies, improve 
efficiencies and grow their businesses.

social investment

By partnering with host governments, NGOs, and public and 
private international organizations, our social investments can 
achieve our common goals and improve the quality of life in 
communities where we work. We focus on economic development, 
health and education.

Economic development
Our investments in economic development span the globe, 
including partnerships in communities as diverse as the Niger 
Delta, Myanmar, New Mexico and Appalachia. 

The Niger Delta Partnership Initiative (NDPI) helps break the  
cycle of poverty and conflict by creating strong and stable 
communities. We work at the intersection of economic develop-
ment and peace because one cannot thrive without the other. 
Thanks to the NDPI, we have driven investment of more than  
$100 million within the delta, grown our local peace network to 
more than 7,000 members, facilitated the creation of more  
than 8,000 jobs and increased farmers’ income by $28 million. 
The NDPI also complements Chevron’s community empowerment 
program, known as the Global Memorandum of Understanding,  
in its neighboring communities.

Health
Chevron invests in programs aimed at improving health to unlock 
progress and prosperity in the communities where we operate. 
Over the past six years, Chevron and CrescentCare’s NO/AIDS 
Task Force have partnered to strengthen HIV/AIDS prevention, 
education and care in the greater New Orleans area. We support 
multiple programs, such as the mobile CareVan, which provides 
testing and education at various events throughout New Orleans. 
CrescentCare tests around 500 individuals annually in the medical 
mobile unit, which is powered and maintained by Chevron.

chevron.com/cr
18

Education 
We develop innovative education programs that help nurture  
and position the next generation of problem solvers to tackle  
the most complex challenges of the future.

Chevron’s support for education has exceeded $480 million 
worldwide since 2013. Our Fuel Your School (FYS) program 
supports public education in local communities by helping  
teachers and students get the classroom supplies they need. 
During 2018 in the United States, FYS helped fund more than  
$5.7 million for classroom projects in 2,883 public schools, 
benefiting nearly 800,000 students. We also extended the 
program into Latin America, helping provide local teachers  
with the tools to prepare students for the jobs of the future. 
Meanwhile, in Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, Hong Kong  
and Singapore, FYS benefited approximately 43,000 people. 
In these countries, employees, family members, retailers and 
business partners recorded almost 1,400 volunteer hours.

bolstering STEM education

Above: The plight of a young sports team trapped in the flooded caves of Chiang Rai, 
Thailand, captured the world’s attention during summer of 2018. Sixteen Chevron 
employees and 18 contractors mobilized to the cave site and were supported by 
nearly 100 employees and contractors working remotely around the clock as part of 
the Emergency Management team. Within 24 hours of the Thai Navy SEALs’ request 
for resources, Chevron committed hundreds of oxygen tanks, dozens of tank packs 
and several gas detectors to monitor air quality in various cave chambers.

thailand partnership initiative

volunteerism and giving

The Thailand Partnership Initiative, locally known as the Chevron 
Enjoy Science Project, is a five-year, $30 million public-private 
partnership to strengthen Thailand’s economic competitiveness  
and innovation. It promotes and improves vocational and science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. The project  
has greatly exceeded its five-year targets for number of students 
reached (1.38 million vs. 425,000) and community members reached 
(615,000 vs. 31,700). In terms of teaching practices, the results 
are just as impressive: a benchmark study found that in all metrics, 
program teachers delivered better-quality output than their peers.

appalachia partnership initiative

Our Appalachian business unit works with the nonprofit organi  zation 
Project Lead The Way (PLTW) to support educational programs in 
southwestern Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia and eastern Ohio. 
PLTW provides transformative learning experiences for pre-K 
through 12th-grade students and teachers through curriculum and 
professional development in computer science, engineering and 
biomedical science.

Chevron’s support of PLTW in the Pennsylvania/Ohio/West Virginia  
region forms part of its Appalachia Partnership Initiative, a long- 
term, $20 million social investment that addresses educational and 
work force development challenges. To date, Chevron has provided 
more than $3.5 million in grants to sustain existing programs and 
imple mented new PLTW initiatives in 107 elementary, middle and  
high schools.

274,200+

U.S. volunteer hours

In the United States, Chevron encourages employee 
and retiree volunteerism and giving through Chevron 
Humankind. In 2018, 7,301 employees and retirees 
contributed 274,217 volunteer hours to 2,185 charitable 
organizations in the United States, and contributed 
$35.2 million to U.S. nonprofit organi za tions through 
a combination of employee and retiree giving and 
company-matching funds.

additional resources

chevron.com/economicdevelopment
chevron.com/health
chevron.com/education

chevron.com/cr
19

contributing to the  
united nations sustainable 
development goals

Chevron is proud of its efforts to contribute to the  
United Nations Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs). Chevron safely develops and delivers  
the affordable, reliable and cleaner energy  
that is necessary for social and economic progress.

learn more  chevron.com/SDGs

our contribution to  
meeting SDG 7

ensure access to 
affordable, reliable, 
sustainable and  
modern energy  
for all

Energy is critical for creating opportunity for all people. Emerging 
countries need affordable, reliable and cleaner energy to create 
jobs, provide access to health and education, and improve lives. 
Chevron plays a vital role in helping meet the world’s energy needs 
by improving energy access, increasing energy efficiency and 
supporting sustainable energy technologies. Our partnership with 
Pact in Myanmar (see statistical infographic on Page 18) has helped 
supply solar-powered lights to more than 10,000 house holds  
and connected more than 240,000 people to energy through solar 
home systems and electrified communal locations.

Above: A local resident of the Mway Pon Kan South village outside her home. The village is 
one of many in Myanmar to enjoy the benefits of new solar home systems. Small business 
owners are reporting greater productivity and efficiencies in their operations, while children  
are enjoying extended hours of education through improved energy access.

chevron.com/cr
20

We also contribute to the SDGs through our work in  
protecting people and the environment and through our  
investments in health, education and economic development. 
Here are some examples from across our company.

our contribution to 
meeting SDG 3

our contribution to 
meeting SDG 4

our contribution to 
meeting SDG 8

ensure healthy  
lives and promote 
well-being for all  
at all ages

ensure inclusive  
and equitable  
quality education 
and promote 
lifelong learning 
opportunities  
for all

promote sustained, 
inclusive and sus- 
tainable economic 
growth, full and  
productive employ-
ment and decent 
work for all

In Australia, we partnered with Telethon 
Speech & Hearing to improve ear health among 
aboriginal children, increasing school readiness 
and engagement across the West Pilbara.  
Since the partnership began in 2011, the  
number of aboriginal children under the age  
of 7 affected by middle-ear diseases in the 
Pilbara has dropped from 51 to 33 percent.

chevron.com/creatingprosperityaustralia

In Myanmar, our funding of Pact’s health 
programs empowered communities to adopt 
behaviors to improve their health status and 
increase access to livelihood opportunities. 
Through these partnerships, the programs 
reached more than 1.25 million people in the  
Dry Zone region of Myanmar, and trained  
more than 12,400 village-based volunteers, 
known as change agents, who now serve  
as health volunteers and village development 
fund managers. Of these change agents,  
9,200 health volunteers were specially  
trained to detect, refer and treat cases of 
tuberculosis, malaria and childhood illnesses.

chevron.com/creatingprosperitymyanmar

In 2016, Chevron Philippines launched the Caltex 
Training in Occupational Opportunities for 
Life Skills, or the Caltex TOOLS project. Caltex 
TOOLS provides world-class skills training in 
welding and scaffolding to disadvantaged 
youth from the host community of San Pascual, 
Batangas, where demand for these skills is high. 
Training is based on international standards to 
create highly skilled workers who will satisfy 
those demands. The program has a 95 percent 
passing rate and a 100 percent employment 
rate after graduation. Caltex TOOLS not only 
provides technical training to the scholars, but it 
also includes financial-management sessions to 
equip graduates with a well-rounded skillset.

chevron.com/creatingprosperityphilippines

The Jibika project, part of the Bangladesh 
Partnership Initiative (BPI), was launched in  
2015 to promote entrepreneurship and 
sustainable income among poor and margin-
alized farming households located near  
our operations.

chevron.com/creatingprosperitybangladesh

BPI jibika project

successes have included the following: 

106 village development organizations (VDOs) 
have registered as cooperatives

Women make up 58 percent of those who serve 
on VDO executive committees

Nearly 780 women received leadership training

Nearly 2,000 micro-entrepreneurs are 
supported with training and access to financing

70 high-yielding plots have been  
established and demonstrated

44 health workers have been trained

chevron.com/cr
21

respecting  
human rights

enabling human progress begins with  
respecting human rights 

learn more  chevron.com/humanrights

Respect for human rights is 
foundational to who  
we are and our purpose of 
enabling human progress.  
This approach applies  
to all our employees and 
contractors and requires 
ongoing, proactive two-way 
communication with  
community members in 
operating and project areas.

Chevron’s Human Rights Policy complies with international 
standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles  
on Business and Human Rights, the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour  
Organi zation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights  
at Work, that are applicable to business. We expect our busi-
ness partners to demonstrate their respect for human rights by 
complying with these standards.

Chevron supports the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of 
Indigenous Peoples and is committed to working with indigenous 
communities in a way that respects their history, culture and 
customs, within applicable legal and constitutional frameworks.

protecting the rights of indigenous peoples

Canada 
Building mutually meaningful and beneficial relationships with  
the more than 40 indigenous groups with whom the Chevron 
Canada business unit (CBU) partners is consistent with our 
Chevron Way values. To enable a strategic, comprehensive and 
transparent approach to these critical relationships, the CBU 
developed its Indigenous Relations Policy (IRP). Employees and 
contractors are expected to support and implement the IRP,  

Previous page: Access to education is a fundamental human right and enables 
human progress. Since 2006, Chevron has provided merit-based scholarships  
for financially disadvantaged high school students in its gas-field communities in 
Bangladesh. In 2018, 63 percent of those scholarship recipients were girls.

which is aligned with Canada’s constitution and existing legislation, 
Chevron policies, and industry best practices.

A multifunctional working group manages the IRP, with over-
sight provided by a steering committee composed of senior 
management. Success is measured against multiyear performance 
goals in indigenous employment and training, supplies and 
services procurement, social investment, environmental 
stewardship, and engagement.

In acknowledgment that reconciliation can only begin with a 
recognition of the past, indigenous awareness training for all CBU 
staff is one of our performance goals.

hearing and addressing community concerns  
across our company

Chevron operates in many countries with one approach: we put 
people at the center of all we do and make human rights a priority. 
That approach is consistent from Kazakhstan to Bangladesh to  
the United States. 

United States
In 2016, Chevron’s Pascagoula Refinery implemented a com-
munity complaint process, which provides an avenue for 
individuals in the surrounding areas to call the refinery if they  
have an environmental complaint. Scenario-based training, 
involving refinery leadership and local agencies, is held to test  
and evaluate processes and procedures. To read a feature on  
the initiative, visit chevron.com/pascagoula.

Bangladesh 
The Bangladesh Profit Center (BPC) operates a community 
grievance mechanism that enables neighboring communities to 
report their complaints and concerns, which in turn enables the 
BPC to address community grievances in a timely, transparent 
manner, with resolution occurring because of collective efforts. 

Kazakhstan 
Tengizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron-operated entity in Kazakhstan, 
was one of the first Chevron business units to develop a grievance 
mechanism. TCO receives community input on its existing 
operations and major capital projects, including the next phase 
of TCO expansion, the Future Growth Project. After consulting 
with communities about the most effective manner for receiving 
their grievances, TCO implemented email, mail and comment box 
mechanisms, as well as Kazakhstan’s first toll-free telephone line. 

For a summary of Chevron’s Grievance Mechanism Guidance, visit 
chevron.com/grievancemechanism.

chevron.com/cr
23

chevron human rights policy 520

employees
We treat all of our  
employees with respect  
and dignity, and  
promote diversity in  
the workplace.

security
We protect personnel,  
assets and provide  
a secure environment for 
business operations.

communities
We engage the  
community in two-way, 
ongoing consultation  
to build trust.

Our company policies and  
procedures adhere to all appli-
cable domestic laws and are 
consistent with core international 
labor principles, including:

•   Freedom of association and 

collective bargaining

•   Nondiscrimination at  

the workplace

•   Decent working and  
living conditions

our focus areas

We conduct our operations 
and execute our projects in 
accordance with the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and  
Human Rights.

We build upon our understanding 
of human rights issues in our 
operating and project areas as  
it relates to:

•   Indigenous peoples 

•   Resettlement

•   Grievances 

•   Livelihoods 

suppliers
We expect our suppliers 
to adhere to all applicable 
domestic laws as well as 
the International Labour 
Organization’s Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work.

We engage with key suppliers to 
reinforce awareness of potential 
human rights issues such as:

•   Working and living  

conditions

•  Forced labor 

•  Child labor 

•  Trafficking

•   Environmental matters

•  Conflict minerals

and investigation of allegations of security and human rights 
incidents. The company’s contracts also reserve the right for 
Chevron to audit contracting companies to determine whether 
they adhere to these and other requirements.

additional resources

chevron.com/CAsupplychainsact

ensuring secure operating environments 

Chevron’s Human Rights Policy ensures that we are especially 
cognizant of potential human rights issues in sensitive operating 
environments. We comply with the Voluntary Principles on  
Security and Human Rights (the Voluntary Principles), designed  
to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of  
their operations within a framework that encourages respect for 
human rights.

Myanmar
In Yangon and Naypyidaw, Myanmar, Chevron participated  
in workshops on the Voluntary Principles. The workshops were 
coordinated by the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. 
Representatives from government agencies, NGOs and private 
security companies attended.

Chevron’s standard security services contracts incorporate  
the company’s expectations regarding training on the Voluntary 
Principles, background screening of contract personnel,  

chevron.com/cr
chevron.com/cr
24
24

focusing on 
focusing on  
governance issues
governance  
issues

26
getting results 
the right way

28
prioritizing our 
culture of 
operational 
excellence

30
operating safely 
and reliably

32
engaging our 
stakeholders

chevron.com/cr
25

getting results  
the right way

chevron is committed  
to strong governance and the  
highest standards of ethics

learn more  chevron.com/corporategovernance 

a diverse board of  
directors helps us  
navigate the world’s 
energy transition

44%

overall board diversity
including 36 percent women and  
36 percent ethnically diverse members

governance

At Chevron, good corporate governance means having 
structures and processes in place to ensure that our decisions 
and actions advance the best interests of shareholders. Our 
Investor Relations and Corporate Governance departments 
enable us to be responsive to shareholders while engaging with 
investors to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive 
compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy issues. 
Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining shareholder 
trust and goodwill are core Chevron objectives.

board of directors

Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business 
and affairs. One of the Board’s primary duties is to oversee 
Chevron’s policies and practices to ensure that appropriate risk 
management systems are employed throughout the company.  
The Board regularly considers critical risk topics through its normal 
business and Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process.  
For example, it annually reviews financial, operational, market, 
political and other risks. 

The Board has four standing committees, each composed solely of 
independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, 
Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee 

chevron.com/cr
26

fulfills important responsibilities to help Chevron manage risks  
and build long-term shareholder value. For example, the Public 
Policy Committee assists the Board in overseeing risks that  
may arise in connection with the social, political, environmental, 
human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business.

The Executive Committee is composed of corporate officers 
chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in 
managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee  
has established five subcommittees that specialize in various 
matters important to the company, including strategy and 
compliance. One subcommittee, the Global Issues Committee, 
oversees strategic corporate responsibility issues including  
human capital management. 

Director nomination process
An experienced, talented and diverse board helps us drive 
innovation and solve some of the world’s most complex energy 
challenges. In identifying Director nominees, the Board Nominating 
and Governance Committee focuses on maintaining a balance of  
knowledge and experience across relevant disciplines. The com-
mittee considers experience and expertise relating to leadership; 
environmental policy; science; technology; engineering; research 
or academia; governmental, regulatory, legal or public policy; 
finance; and global business or international affairs. The Board 
also seeks to achieve diversity of age, gender and ethnicity, and 
recognizes the need to bring in fresh thinking, as demonstrated  
by our current average Board tenure of less than five years.

U.S. political activities 

Chevron engages with the executive branch, Congress and  
state officials to provide perspective on energy issues. We lobby 
ethically, constructively and in a nonpartisan manner. Chevron 
engages in the public policy process through direct and indirect 
lobbying and by participating in a diverse range of business and 
policy organizations that advocate positions designed to support 
free markets and fair, responsible energy policies. 

Chevron does not agree with every position of every industry,  
trade or policy organization in which we participate. At the  
same time, Chevron believes that continuous participation with  
these organizations provides the best opportunity to shape their 
positions to align with our values. On an annual basis, the Public 
Policy Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the policies, 
procedures and expenditures for Chevron’s political activities, 
including political contributions and direct and indirect lobbying.

For more information about Chevron’s political contributions  
and trade association activities, visit chevron.com/
politicalcontributions.

business ethics

Strong financial results and an outstanding safety  
record were hallmarks of our performance in 2018. 

These successes were achieved through a commit-
ment to The Chevron Way values:

diversity and inclusion
 We learn from and respect the cultures in which we 
operate. We have an inclusive work environment  
that values the uniqueness and diversity of individual 
talents, experiences and ideas.

high performance
We are passionate about delivering results, and  
strive to continually improve. We hold ourselves 
accountable for our actions and outcomes. We apply 
proven processes in a fit-for-purpose manner  
and always look for innovative and agile solutions.

integrity and trust
We are honest with ourselves and others, and honor 
our commitments. We trust, respect and support  
each other. We earn the trust of our colleagues 
and partners by operating with the highest ethical 
standards in all we do.

partnership
We build trusting and mutually beneficial relationships 
by collaborating with our communities, governments, 
customers, suppliers and other business partners. We 
are most successful when our partners succeed with us.

protecting people and the environment
We place the highest priority on the health and 
safety of our work  force and protection of our assets, 
communities and the environment. We deliver  
world-class performance with a focus on preventing 
high-consequence incidents.

These values are the foundation of our culture.  
For more, visit chevron.com/chevronway.

additional resources
chevron.com/ESGreporting

chevron.com/cr
27

prioritizing our  
culture of operational 
excellence

we manage health, safety and  
environmental risks

learn more  chevron.com/OE

chevron.com/cr
28

Chevron values its culture of Operational Excellence (OE), which 
places the highest priority on the safety and health of our workforce 
while protecting communities, the environment and our assets. 
Our OE objectives and performance expectations guide us. They 
address workforce safety and health, process safety, reliability and 
integrity, the environment, efficiency, security, and stakeholders. 
We recognize that managing risk requires constant vigilance and 
companywide dedication across our global operations. 

In 2004, we established the Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS) to manage health, safety and environmental 
risks. The OEMS enables us to assess risks, identify safeguards to 
mitigate them and implement programs to assure these safeguards 
are effective. In 2018, we updated the OEMS to be more specific 
in how we determine, implement and sustain safeguards, further 
emphasizing the key role leaders play in achieving OE results.

improving employee safeguards

Employee safeguards are intended to eliminate fatalities, serious 
injuries and operational incidents. In 2018, we re-educated our  
workforce about safeguards—what they are, how we determine 
whether they are sufficient and how we assure their continual 
prac tice. We improved visual depictions of safeguards to help our  
work force understand how they help us manage risk. We intro- 
duced mobile verification apps designed to help frontline workers  
confirm that appropriate safeguards are in place and verified 
before the start of high-risk work. All of our updated and new 
systems are developed through a human performance lens  
(see Page 39), with the goal of reducing human errors.

creating new standards for risk 
reduction at our facilities

Half of Chevron’s global production comes from 14 facilities 
on five continents. Identifying common characteristics of how 
these plants are built and how they operate provides us with 
opportunities to reduce operating and safety risks. In 2017, 
we formed the Complex Process Facilities (CPF) organization 
to improve performance in these facilities in process safety, 
reliability and integrity, and turnaround planning and execution. 
In 2018, the CPF organization deployed new protocols to 
respond to unplanned or uncontrolled leaks. Unless addressed 
properly, these incidents can potentially escalate, resulting  
in risks to people and the environment. The new standard will  
help ensure that the right people and guidelines are in place 
to help decision makers respond effectively and rapidly to a 
potential or an actual leak.

managing risk in operational  
excellence focus areas

Our Operational Excellence Management System 
enables us to systematically manage risk and comply 
with legal requirements across the following OE  
focus areas:

workforce  
safety 
and health

Eliminate fatalities, serious 
injuries and illnesses

process safety, 
reliability  
and integrity

Eliminate high-consequence 
process safety incidents  
and operate with industry- 
leading reliability

environment

Assess and manage significant 
environmental risks

efficiency

Use energy and  
resources efficiently

security

Prevent high-consequence 
security and  
cybersecurity incidents

stakeholders

Address OE business  
risks through stakeholder 
engagement and issues 
management

Previous page: In 2018, we re-educated our Upstream workforce about safeguards—
what they are, how we determine whether they are sufficient and how we assure  
their continual practice. Colleagues pictured here on our Mafumeira Sul Project, off 
the coast of Cabinda province in Angola, took part in that initiative.

chevron.com/cr
29

additional resources

chevron.com/OEMS
chevron.com/healthsafety

operating safely  
and reliably

we are committed to keeping  
our people, our partners  
and the environment safe

learn more  chevron.com/healthsafety

chevron.com/cr
30

The Chevron Way’s emphasis on protecting people and the 
environment drives our commitment to operating safely and 
reliably. Programs like Essentials Checklists in our Downstream 
business and Save Your Life Actions in our Upstream business  
help ensure strong safeguards are in place and functioning 
properly before work begins. 

Thanks to these programs and a deep respect for our safety 
culture, our 2018 OE performance was the best on record.  
We matched or outperformed all but one of our targets and set 
new record lows in our Total Recordable Incident and Motor  
Vehicle Crash rates.

keeping people safe

Our Operational Excellence Management  
System (OEMS) provides a rigorous structure to 
identify risks, strengthen safety capabilities  
and reduce potential impacts should an incident 
occur. To improve operational performance  
and keep people safe, we analyze safeguards to 
test vulnerabilities in human judgment and evaluate 
equipment that is subject to degradation over time.

We provide training on physical factors that affect 
 tions.  
performance, like fatigue, stress and distrac
To further improve performance, we provide resources 
that enhance the design and layout of work areas.

record safety

2018 marks our best year  
on record in health,  
environment and safety.

creating a culture  
of learning:  
everyone has a voice

Organizational Learning is an integral part of 
our OEMS. Through Organizational Learning, we 
identify problems, share ideas to solve them and 
find safeguards to prevent risks. We have adopted 
industry-recognized human performance tools  
to help leaders promote open communication on 
safety issues and establish a culture of learning.

One of those tools is Learning Teams, which brings 
together workers and creates a shared under- 
stand ing of how specific jobs get done in the field.  
This makes it easier for the teams to understand the 
complexity of each worker’s tasks. When operational 
knowledge is shared, the Learning Teams discover 
strengths and potential vulnerabilities, all of which 
inform how we might enhance safeguards. 

additional resources
chevron.com/OE

Previous page: Our Operational Excellence Management System provides  
a structure to identify risks, strengthen safety capabilities and reduce potential 
impacts should an incident occur. Colleagues are pictured being safely transferred 
from vessels at the end of a work shift in the Agbami Field, offshore Nigeria.

chevron.com/cr
31

 
engaging  
our stakeholders

we are committed to working the  
right and responsible way

learn more  chevron.com/OE

5

insights

read the latest on chevron 
actions to safeguard against 
risk and operate the  
right and responsible way 

In this feature, Dave Payne, vice 
president, Health, Environment and 
Safety, speaks with Lina Saenz (left),  
Risk Management advisor, and  
Sucheta Tiwari, Stakeholder Engage-
ment advisor, about Chevron’s new 
approach to stakeholder engagement.

1.   Tell us about risk management 
and stakeholder engagement  
at Chevron.

We recently updated our standardized, risk-
based approach to managing Operational 
Excellence (OE)—or health, environment and 
safety—risk. As part of the update, we looked 
at how we engage with our stakeholders. 
We streamlined two related processes into 
one—the new Stakeholder Engagement and 
Issues Management (SEIM) process. This helps 
business units identify, assess, prioritize and 
manage OE risk holistically, while thoughtfully 
considering likely stakeholders’ perceptions. 
Potential social, community, political and 
reputational risks and management strategies 
are identified throughout the process.

2.  What behaviors will make the 
SEIM’s application a success?

In many ways, we’re strengthening our current 
behaviors. The SEIM process operationalizes  
our Chevron Way values such as trust, partner-
ship and protecting people by designing our 
stakeholder engagement systems around them. 
We also provided a new mechanism designed 
to anticipate potential community impact 
throughout an asset’s lifecycle. This will help 
us proactively manage community concerns, 
grievances and expectations.

3.  How are stakeholders’ risks 

integrated with other OE risks?

Business units create a prioritized risk profile 
that integrates all the OEMS focus areas—
workforce safety and health, process safety, 
reliability and integrity, environment, efficiency, 
security, and stakeholders. The integrated 
profile builds a common understanding of all 
risk, but also helps us highlight the stakeholder-
related risk and measures designed to prevent  
incidents and mitigate consequences. Signifi-
cant stakeholder risks are reported through our 
Enterprise Risk Management process, which 
presents an overview to the corporate-level 
leadership team and Board of Directors.

4.  The SEIM process has undergone 
changes in the past 12 months. 
Tell us about the business impact 
of the changes and the process.

Most business units already have processes  
to request and respond to stakeholder feedback 
in a timely manner, but we added a grievance 
mechanism requirement in line with industry 
best practices. We also formalized how we 
communicate with our colleagues running day-
to-day operations. This ensures we have the 
right safeguards in place to prevent and mitigate 
OE risks to our business and potential impacts 
to communities. For example, new traffic 
management plans have been created based on 
conversations that happened as a result of this 
process. It has led to a better understanding  
of community impacts with our operations team.

5.  How does Chevron track and 
analyze elements that might 
signal change, such as potential 
policy developments?

As part of our day-to-day work, we contin u ously  
engage local, regional and national governments,  
communities, international development 
organi zations, and business leaders to identify 
emerging issues and policy trends. We par-
ti ci pate in multiple industry and business 
associations and benefit from memberships 
with policy think tanks and forums. We also 
use data analytics to monitor and assess public 
perceptions about our company and industry.

In each business unit, a leadership-level  
com mit  tee helps prioritize the social, political 
and reputational issues that emerge from  
these various inputs. At the enterprise level, 
there is a commit tee composed of executive 
leaders to address these ongoing and emerging 
policy issues.

additional resources
chevron.com/OEMS

chevron.com/cr
33

performance 
data and additional 
information

35
performance 
data

40
additional 
information

chevron.com/cr
34

performance data

these tables include our quantitative  
environmental, safety and social performance data

For complete reporting, including performance data,  
visit chevron.com/2018performancetables. 

To create customized charts and tables using our performance  
data, visit chevron.com/ESGchartgenerator.

Environmental performance 1 

Accidental release prevention and response

Petroleum spills to land and water (volume in thousand barrels) 2 

Total volume recovered

Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills) 2

Spills of significance (number of spills) 3

Natural resources – water

Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 4

Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters) 4

Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 4

Wastewater

Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water (parts per million) 5

Upstream

Refining

Total amount of oil discharged to surface water (thousand metric tons) 5

Upstream

Refining

Greenhouse gas

Equity basis

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), equity basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8 

GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2),  
equity basis (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 8

GHG emissions from exported electricity and steam, equity basis  
(a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 8

GHG emissions from third-party use of our products, equity basis  
(a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric tons of CO2) 6, 9

Operated basis

Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8

GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2),  
operated basis (million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 8

footnotes are on Pages 40–41

chevron.com/cr
35

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

1.4

1.1

67

6

71

70

39

7

1

0.7

0.03

3.4

3.1

59

12

74

73

41

8

1

0.9

0.04

0.7

0.3

62

8

80

79

36

9

1

1.2

0.04

0.8

0.6

63

14

78

77

43

10

1

0.8

0.4

79

85

41

9

1

1.3

0.04

1.3

0.05

59

57

58

58

56

4

4

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

396

376

364

368

358

66

5

64

5

64

6

66

6

66

6

Environmental performance ,1 continued

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Operated basis, continued

Methane emissions, direct, operated basis  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 8

Upstream GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated basis  
(metric tons of CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of oil-equivalent production) 8

Upstream direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8

Refining GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated basis (metric tons of  
CO2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of crude oil and other refinery feed) 8

Refining direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis  
(million metric tons of CO2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8

Average flare gas volume rate, direct, operated basis  
(million standard cubic feet per day) 10

Energy efficiency

Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated  
joint-venture refineries (trillion BTUs) 11

Total energy consumption, operated assets

Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated  
joint-venture refineries (million gigajoules) 11

Total energy consumption, operated assets

Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) (no units) 11

Upstream Energy Intensity (thousand BTUs per barrel of oil-equivalent) 11

Pipeline Energy Intensity (BTUs per barrel of oil-equivalent-mile) 11

Shipping Energy Intensity (BTUs per metric ton–mile) 11

Non-Manufacturing Energy Index (Oronite, Lubricants, etc.) (no units) 11

Air emissions

Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12

Total sulfur oxides (SOx) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12

Total nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12

Waste

Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons) 13

Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons) 13

Hazardous waste recycled (million metric tons) 13

Fines and settlements

4

30

47

35

15

4

31

46

35

15

6

33

45

36

15

6

34

47

35

15

6

34

47

37

15

467

556

625

615

563

922

760

973

802

85.0

349

11

75

74

101

40

142

0.4

0.3

0.2

820

664

865

701

 85.0

 303

13 

70

75

139

52

147

0.4

0.3

0.1

830

671

876

708

84.6

308

20

43

75

147

66

148

0.6

0.4

0.3

865

711

913

750

85.2

330

24

32

79

144

84

148

0.7

0.3

0.4

920

744

970

785

87.6

341

29

49

86

134

112

138

1.0

0.8

0.1

Number of environmental, health and safety fines paid and settlements  
entered into, equity basis 14 

58

102

102

135

292

Cost of environmental, health and safety fines paid and settlements entered into, 
equity basis (millions of dollars) 14 

$6.4

$40.5

$6.7

$3.9

$57.1

footnotes are on Pages 40–41

chevron.com/cr
36

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission statistics 15

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Percent women among total employees

Percent minorities among total employees

Asian

Latino

Black

Other

Percent women among executives and senior managers

Percent minorities among executives and senior managers

Asian

Latino

Black

Other

Percent women among first- and mid-level managers

Percent minorities among first- and mid-level managers

Asian

Latino

Black

Other

Percent women among professionals

Percent minorities among professionals

Asian

Latino

Black

Other

31

41

14

16

8

3

22

19

9

6

3

30

39

13

15

8

3

19

16

7

5

3

30

38

13

14

8

3

18

13

6

4

3

0.9

0.5

0.3

30

33

12

12

7

1

33

36

16

11

7

2

29

32

12

12

7

1

33

35

16

11

7

2

29

30

12

11

6

2

33

35

16

10

7

2

30

37

13

13

8

3

17

13

6

5

2

0.4

28

29

12

9

7

2

33

35

15

10

8

2

30

36

12

13

8

2

16

12

5

4

2

0.5

29

29

11

9

7

1

32

34

14

10

8

2

footnotes are on Pages 40–41

chevron.com/cr
37

Global employee diversity 15

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Number of regular employees at year-end

45,047

48,456

51,953

58,178

61,456

Number of service station employees at year-end

3,591

3,298

3,248

3,316

3,259

Number of U.S. employees at year-end

21,465

22,048

23,418

26,448

28,666

Percent U.S. employees represented by unions

Percent women represented in total workforce 

Percent women represented at mid-level management

Percent women represented at senior leadership

Percent women represented at executive leadership

Percent women and non-Caucasian men represented at senior executive levels

Percent employees working in their home country

Percent workforce in North America

Percent workforce in Asia-Pacific

Percent workforce in Africa

Percent workforce in Europe/Middle East

Percent workforce in South America

11

25

19

19

16

36

96

47

28

11

9

4

11

25

19

18

14

34

95

44

28

14

8

3

11

24

18

16

14

31

94

45

28

14

7

4

10

24

17

16

15

31

93

45

29

13

7

4

10

25

16

16

16

31

92

46

29

13

6

4

Supply chain 16, 17

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Total goods and services spending (billions of dollars)

$25.1

$24.8

$27.3

$35.8

$40.9

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based businesses (billions of dollars)

$11.6

$11.2

$10.7

$13.5

$15.4

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based small businesses (billions of dollars)

$1.7

$1.6

$1.7

$2.1

$2.3

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based  
woman- and minority-owned businesses (billions of dollars)

$0.7

$0.6

$0.5

$0.7

$0.9

footnotes are on Pages 40–41

chevron.com/cr
38

Health and safety performance 18

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Total Recordable Incident Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

0.128

0.26

0.075

0.21

0.145

0.28

Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees 

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Days Away From Work Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Benchmark

Contractors

Benchmark

Number of work-related fatalities

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

0.016

0.30

0.013

0.33

0.017

0.29

0.016

0.060

0.013

0.065

0.017

0.058

0

0

0

0.13

0.26

0.09

0.23

0.15

0.28

0.09

0.25

0.08

0.28

0.10

0.23

0.016

0.048

0.012

0.054

0.018

0.045

6

2

4

Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours) 19

Workforce

Benchmark

Employees

Contractors

Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with employee or contractor 
fatalities per 100 million work-hours)

Motor Vehicle Crash Rate (workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven) 20

Number of process safety Tier 1 events  
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance) 21

Upstream

Downstream & Chemicals

Midstream

footnotes are on Pages 40–41

chevron.com/cr
39

0.00

0.27

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.02

16

9

6

1

1.32

0.85

1.77

1.17

1.32

0.04

0.03

22

14

7

1

22

16

6

0

0.14

0.26

0.10

0.24

0.16

0.27

0.10

0.28

0.10

0.32

0.11

0.25

0.017

0.051

0.018

0.063

0.016

0.044

10

1

9

2.03

2.23

0.82

2.44

0.81

0.18

0.23

0.10

0.24

0.20

0.22

0.10

0.28

0.10

0.38

0.10

0.23

0.019

0.054

0.020

0.075

0.018

0.044

3

0

3

0.51

0.63

0.00

0.67

0.51

0.02

29

18

10

1

0.18

0.33

0.10

0.28

0.21

0.36

0.11

0.36

0.06

0.39

0.12

0.35

0.021

0.070

0.011

0.077

0.023

0.067

3

0

3

0.49

0.78

0.00

0.63

0.49

0.04

19

15

3

1

notes to pages 35 through 39

  1  This section reflects 2018 data collected as of April 12, 2019. All data are reported 

  8  2018 direct GHG emissions, on both an equity and operated basis, increased  

on an operated basis unless otherwise noted.

primarily due to increased production at our Wheatstone operations. 

  2  Chevron reports petroleum spills to land and water to conform to the 2015 IPIECA 

Reporting Guidance. Spills to land and water that are greater than or equal  
to one barrel are included. Spills to secondary containment and chemical spills  
are excluded.

  3  The six (6) spills of significance that Chevron experienced in 2018 ranged in size 
from 0.01 to 0.3 thousand barrels. Of the one (1) thousand barrels spilled in total, 
0.6 were spilled to secondary containment.

  For purposes of conforming to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, Chevron 
defines a spill of significance as a process safety Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment  
(LOPC) event (as defined by American National Standards Institute/American 
Petroleum Institute [ANSI/API] Recommended Practice [RP] 754) with a con-
sequence of a release of material greater than the threshold quantities described  
in Table 1 of ANSI/API RP 754 in any one-hour period. Spills to secondary  
containment, regardless of actual environmental impact, are included, as are 
chemical spills. Releases to air are excluded.

  4  Fresh water withdrawn totals decreased in 2018 (relative to prior years) in part 
due to continued transition to the use of brackish water in lieu of fresh water at 
our operations in the Permian Basin and a refinement in water use estimates.

  Produced water is excluded from fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed 
and nonfresh water withdrawn. 

  Fresh water withdrawn from the environment is defined per local legal definitions. 
If no local definition exists, fresh water is defined as water extracted, directly or 
indirectly, from surface water, groundwater or rainwater that has a total dissolved 
solids concentration of less than or equal to 2,000 mg/L. Fresh water withdrawn 
does not include effluent or recycled/reclaimed water from municipal or other 
industrial wastewater treatment systems, as this water is reported under nonfresh 
water withdrawn.

  Nonfresh water withdrawn could include: seawater; brackish groundwater or 
surface water; reclaimed wastewater from another municipal or industrial facility; 
desalinated water; or remediated groundwater used for industrial purposes.

  5  Oil concentration is determined by the sampling of effluent streams, using 

methods required or recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where 
applicable. Chevron reports the total cumulative amount of oil discharged to  
surface water excluding spills, which are reported separately.

  6 

The World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard defines three “scopes” that Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. 
Scope 1 includes direct emissions from sources within a facility. Scope 2 includes 
indirect emissions from electricity and steam that Chevron facilities import.  
Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions. Chevron reports information  
related to Scope 3 emissions from third-party use of our products, which  
account for over 90 percent of our total Scope 3 emissions.

  Refinements were made in the data reporting for 2017 equity and operated  
GHG emissions.

  All six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), 
sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons—are included  
in Chevron’s Scope 1 emissions. CO2, CH4 and N2O are accounted for in Chevron’s 
Scope 2 emissions and in Chevron’s Scope 3 emissions related to the electricity 
and steam that Chevron exports to third parties.

  The following entities are not currently included in the 2018 Chevron corporate 
GHG inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, 
and other nonoperated assets in which Chevron has an equity interest of  
16 percent or less. Emissions from the Wheatstone asset have been included  
in the inventory where Chevron has operational control, as defined by Australia’s 
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007. 

  Information regarding GHG emissions from Chevron Phillips Chemical Company 
LLC can be found at cpchem.com.

  Additional GHG emissions data can be found at chevron.com/ghgmanagement.

  9  Chevron calculated emissions from third-party use of our products by multiplying 
total 2018 Upstream liquids and gas production by emissions factors from API’s 
Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural 
Gas Industry (2004, 2009).

 10  The 2018 enterprisewide flare gas volume rate decreased due to improvements 

made in equipment reliability in our Australasia business unit.

  The 2017 average flare gas volume rate has been restated.

  In 2018, 17 percent of Chevron’s total direct (Scope 1), operated GHG emissions  
were from process emissions and vented sources, as defined by API’s Compen­
dium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas 
Industry (2004, 2009).

 11  Total energy consumption increased due to increased production in our 

Australasia and Midcontinent business units but were offset by the divestment  
of less efficient assets.

  The 2017 energy data have been restated to correct an error and account  
for additional information that was received after the publication of the  
2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights.

  Refining energy performance is measured by the Manufacturing Energy Index 
(MEI), which is calculated using the Solomon Energy Intensity Index methodology. 
MEI includes operated assets and nonoperated joint-venture refineries.

  Energy performance for Oronite, Lubricants, Americas Products and International 
Products is measured by the Non-Manufacturing Energy Index, which is the energy 
required to produce Chevron products compared to the energy that would have 
been required to produce the same products in 1992 (the index’s base year).

  7  Direct GHG emissions related to production of energy in the form of electricity or 

 12  VOC, SOx and NOx emissions decreased in 2018 due to reductions in venting  

steam exported or sold to a third party have been included in the reported Scope 1 
emissions to conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance.

and flaring, asset divestments, revision of in-scope sources and refinements made 
in data collection and calculations.

  Refinements were made in the data reporting for 2017 NOx, SOx and VOC  
emissions, including the exclusion of third-party time chartered vessels.

  For compiling and reporting air emissions data, Chevron follows regulatory defini-
tions of VOC. SOx emissions include SO2 and SO3, reported as SO2-equivalent. NOx 
emissions include NO and NO2 (reported as NO2-equivalent) and exclude N2O.

  Additional air emissions data can be found at chevron.com/air.

chevron.com/cr
40

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13  To conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, and where appropriate  
information and data exist, our hazardous waste numbers starting in 2015  
exclude remediation waste generated, disposed of and recycled.

  Hazardous waste amounts are quantified using methods required or recom-
mended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where applicable. In other 
instances, similar methods are used, including direct measurement onsite or  
at the point of shipping, engineering estimates, and process knowledge.  
Chevron follows the regulatory definitions of hazardous waste applicable to  
the jurisdictions in which we operate, including de minimis specifications  
(below which hazardous waste quantities do not need to be reported).

 14  Data are based on information that was received from the regulatory agency  

and recorded internally prior to the publication of this report.

15   Global employee diversity data and data from the U.S. Equal Employment 

Opportunity Commission have been rounded to the nearest integer for 2018  
and previous years, and ethnicity/gender combined has been rounded to  
one decimal place.

  The Other category in the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission  
statistics includes Two or More Races, Native American, and Pacific Islander.

  U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission statistics minority grouping 
includes ethnic diversity, both men and women.

16   This section reflects data collected as of February 20, 2019.

17   Data exclude spend that is ultimately shared with our partners.

 18  This section reflects Chevron data collected as of February 12, 2019.

 19  Health and safety performance rates include both injury- and illness-related  
incidents. API’s Benchmarking Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses  
and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry data are used as industry benchmarks.

 20 Data include catastrophic and major incidents only.

 21  Process safety Tier 1 (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled releases 

resulting in consequences equivalent to those specified by ANSI/API RP 754 
and International Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Report 456: Process Safety 
Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators.

forward-looking statements warning

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES 
LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s operations that 
are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about 
the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words or phrases 
such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “forecasts,” “projects,” 
“believes,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,” “positions,” “pursues,” “may,” “could,” 
“should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” “trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on schedule,” 
“on track,” “is slated,” “goals,” “objectives,” “strategies,” “opportunities,” “poised” and 
similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These 
statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, 
uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control and 
are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially 
from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader 
should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak 
only as of the date of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no 
obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise.

Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those in the forward-looking statements are, among others, changing crude oil and 
natural gas prices; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins; the company’s 
ability to realize anticipated cost savings and expenditure reductions; actions of 
competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses; timing of crude oil liftings; 
the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological 
developments; the results of operations and financial condition of the company’s 
suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates, particularly during extended periods 
of low prices for crude oil and natural gas; the inability or failure of the company’s 
joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the 
potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing and future crude oil 
and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the development, construction 
or start-up of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of the company’s 
operations due to war, accidents, political events, civil unrest, severe weather, cyber 
threats and terrorist acts, crude oil production quotas or other actions that might  
be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or other natural or  
human causes beyond the company’s control; changing economic, regulatory and 
political environments in the various countries in which the company operates; general 
domestic and international economic and political conditions; the potential liability for 
remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations and 
litigation; significant operational, investment or product changes required by existing or 
future environmental statutes and regulations, including international agreements and 
national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions; the potential liability resulting from other pending or future litigation; 
the company’s future acquisition or disposition of assets or shares or the delay or failure 
of such transactions to close based on required closing conditions; the potential for 
gains and losses from asset dispositions or impairments; government-mandated sales, 
divestitures, recapitalizations, industry-specific taxes, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal 
terms or restrictions on scope of company operations; foreign currency movements 
compared with the U.S. dollar; material reductions in corporate liquidity and access 
to debt markets; the effects of changed accounting rules under generally accepted 
accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to 
identify and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy 
industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 18 through 
21 of the company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other unpredictable or unknown 
factors not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-
looking statements.

chevron.com/cr
41

 
 
 
LRQA Independent Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate Responsibility Report  
for the Calendar Year 2018

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in accordance 
with our contract, but is intended for the readers of this Report.

•  Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of Chevron’s 
reporting requirements, including key persons responsible for drafting the CRR.

Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by Chevron 
U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide independent 
assurance on its processes used in the creation of the Corporate Responsibility 
Report (CRR) for calendar year 2018 to a reasonable level using LRQA’s 
verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:

•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health, 
environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.

•  Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance 

on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) industry guidelines. 

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data and 
information reported in the CRR.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LRQA disclaims any liability or respon-
sibility to others as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s management was 
responsible for preparing the CRR and for maintaining effective internal controls 
over the reporting processes and CRR. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out 
an assurance engagement on the reporting processes in accordance with our 
contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the CRR has been approved by, and remains 
the responsibility of, Chevron.

LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting processes  
were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for assessing corporate 
performance and reporting information consistent with common reporting 
elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary 
sustainability reporting (2015). 

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance 
and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the Verifier. 

LRQA’s Approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our 
Verification procedure; the following tasks were undertaken as part of the 
evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement:

•  Visiting Chevron in San Ramon, California, to review data collection and 

checking processes. Reviewing Chevron Upstream, Chevron Midstream and 
Chevron Downstream & Chemicals to assess business-unit understanding  
and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•  Visiting Oak Point Oronite Plant in Oak Point, Louisiana; lubricants facilities 
in Louisville, Kentucky, and Port Arthur, Texas; Chevron Upstream Europe in 
Aberdeen, Scotland; and an Environmental Management Company project site 
in Questa, New Mexico, to assess local understanding and implementation of 
Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.

•  Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate 

consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of the  
HES performance indicators.

•  Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the  

reporting processes.

•  Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance 

on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:

•  Processes were in place to ensure that personnel contributing to HES metrics 

understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.

•  Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly defined 

and communicated.

•  Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood and carried 
out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels were checked and 
aggregated into corporationwide metrics.

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines was 

clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.

LRQA’s Standards, Competence and Independence
LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on 
their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and 
certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management  
to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.

LRQA is one of Chevron’s certification bodies for ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 
and greenhouse gas emissions verification. The certification assessments and 
verification are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron and as such  
do not compromise our independence or impartiality. 

Andrea M. Bockrath
LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.
March 25, 2019

LRQA Reference: UQA4000679

 Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, 
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not  
be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that 
person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case any responsibility or  
liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.

The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 

This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.

chevron.com/cr
42

 
about this report

additional environmental, social  
and governance reporting can be found  
at chevron.com/ESGreporting

This report covers our owned and operated businesses and  
does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers, 
contractors and partners unless otherwise noted. All financial 
information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

This report contains forward-looking statements relating to 
Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current 
expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, 
chemicals and other energy-related industries. These statements 
are not guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to 
certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are 
beyond the company’s control, including government regulation 
and oil and gas prices. See Forward-Looking Statements Warning 
on Page 41.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the 
development, implementation or continuation of any program, 
policy or initiative discussed or forecasted in this report, may  
differ materially in the future. As with any projections or estimates, 
actual results or numbers may vary. Many of the standards and 
metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are 
based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at 
the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. 
The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the  
date of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to update 
publicly any statements in this report.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as  
“the company,” “the corporation,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” 
may refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries 
or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All of these terms 
are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise 
description of any of the separate companies, each of which 
manages its own affairs.

Chevron Corporation
Corporate Affairs
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
Building G
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
USA

Produced by Corporate Affairs, Chevron Corporation

Design Sequel, New York, New York

Copy editor Joan D. Saunders 

Photo credits Cover, 1, 2, 10, 16, 17, 22, 28 and 30: Marc Marriott;  
13: Adam Neville; 18: Andrew Esiebo; 20: Benny Manser; 
21 (left): Michael Edmondson, (center): Alfred Cox Aban; 32: Robert Seale

chevron.com/cr
43

learn more

If you are interested in learning more  
or continuing the conversation, we welcome  
you to engage with us on social media. 

@chevroncr

@chevroncr

linkedin.com/company/chevron

youtube.com/chevron

facebook.com/chevron

For additional information about Corporate Responsibility  
at Chevron, visit chevron.com/CR. 

To create customized charts and tables using our performance data,  
visit chevron.com/ESGchartgenerator.

For additional investor resources about our ESG reporting,  
visit chevron.com/ESGreporting.

Aligned with our Chevron Way value to protect people and the environment, we have printed this report on Forest Stewardship Council-certified  
Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.

100 percent of the electricity used to manufacture Mohawk Options is matched with Green-e certified wind energy.  
Mohawk Options is certified by the Rainforest Alliance for FS standards. RA-COC-000668.

Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

© 2019 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386P (5-19) (2.5M)

