2021 corporate sustainability report

permian  
basin

2.2M

net acres
one of the largest net acreage positions  
in the Permian Basin, which is located  
in West Texas and southeast New Mexico

100%

of the MCBU drill rig fleet is equipped  
as of 2021 to utilize natural gas or the grid  
for primary power, which is expected to  
reduce emissions intensity and well costs

99%

of water used in 2021 was from  
brackish or recycled sources

Photo: The company’s most significant holdings in 
the Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) are in the 
Permian Basin, where Chevron has been active since 
1920. We understand the importance of protecting 
the region’s resources – both the environment and 
the community. We’ve made notable progress in 
water use, flaring minimization, renewable energy 
and community involvement.

Original release May 2022; update June 2022, page 45 (revised first 
bullet list in Highlights from 2021 column).

a force for  
shared progress

Our success is driven by our people and their commitment to deliver affordable, reliable and  
ever-cleaner energy. Our strategy is clear – we are leveraging our strengths to deliver lower carbon 
energy to a growing world. By operating responsibly and performing with excellence, we strive  
to make Chevron the partner of choice and aim to be a force for shared progress and prosperity.  
Our success rests on a culture true to our Chevron Way values – getting results the right way.

message from our  
chairman and CEO

As the global energy system evolves to meet the 
demands of a growing world, we are focused on 
delivering affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy. 

Achieving a more sustainable future for Chevron  
means drawing on our culture of human ingenuity to 
solve problems and deliver solutions. It also means  
being an outstanding partner with businesses around  
the world and with the communities we call home.

To continue making progress, we’re expanding  
methane detection capabilities. In addition to  
tradi tional ground-based sensors, we’re deploying 
detection technology using satellites, air craft and  
drones for broader coverage. Better methane  
detection is critical to reducing carbon intensity,  
and our work with industry and academic partners 
contributes to improving the accuracy and  
credibility of global methane reporting. 

These priorities inspire us to build trust through 
collaboration and to nurture the diverse talent  
necessary to accomplish our goals. Getting results  
the right way isn’t always easy, but at Chevron we  
know it’s the sustainable way. 

reducing our carbon intensity

While conversation about the energy transition often 
focuses on future actions, we are making progress  
today. We have identified nearly 100 GHG abatement 
projects to reduce the carbon intensity of our opera-
tions, and expect them to deliver approxi mately  
4 million tonnes of emissions reductions per year when 
completed. In 2021, we started 36 decarbonization 
projects and completed five. In 2022, we are more  
than doubling the number of projects to 75 and expect 
to spend approximately $2 billion total on similar 
projects through 2028.

leading in methane management

We continue to lead in methane management in  
our U.S. operations, particularly in the Permian,  
where our methane intensity is 85% lower than the  
basin average. Chevron is on track to meet our  
2028 target to reduce enterprise methane emissions 
intensity by more than 50% from 2016 levels and 
eliminate routine flaring by 2030.

new opportunities, new partnerships

Reducing carbon emissions today requires partner   - 
ship and collaboration, because no one company, 
industry or nation – acting alone – can meet the  
world’s energy and climate goals. 

This is particularly true with harder-to-abate sectors, 
such as manufacturing, agriculture, aviation and  
heavy-duty transportation. We are working with 
innovators around the globe to develop breakthrough 
technologies and building new partnerships to scale 
lower carbon solutions.

In this spirit, we formed Chevron New Energies, 
leveraging our unique capabilities, assets and 
customers. We’re working to grow production of 
products such as renewable diesel, sustainable aviation 
fuel, renewable natural gas, biodiesel and renewable  
base oil. Our El Segundo Refinery was the first refinery  
in the U.S. to co-process biofeedstock to make  
trans portation fuels with renew able content and  
a lower lifecycle carbon intensity. This capital- 
efficient project leveraged existing assets, enabled  
by patented, Chevron-developed technology.  

Chairman’s letter continues on page 4

chevron.com/sustainability
2

Photo: Mike Wirth speaks with workforce  
during worldwide employee town hall.

•  100% rating: Human Rights  

Campaign Foundation’s 2022  
Corporate Equality Index  
(17th consecutive year)

•  100% on the Disability Equality  
Index for the Best Places to  
Work for Disability Inclusion  
(3rd consecutive year)

•  JUST Capital Best Company for  
Workers in the Oil & Gas industry

2021 awards and recognition

•   Forbes’ Just 100 and Best  

Employers For New Grads lists

•  Top Veteran-Friendly Company  

by U.S. Veterans Magazine

•  5-star rating by The Hispanic  
Association on Corporate  
Responsibility’s Corporate  
Inclusion Index in areas of  
Employment and Governance

•  EGYPS (Egypt Petroleum  
Show) Employer of the  
Year Championing Inclusion,  
Diversity and Equality

•  Corporation Leader of the Year  
award by Women Leaders in  
Data and Artificial Intelligence

•  Women’s Forum of New York  

Corporate Champion: more than  
40% of Board seats are held  
by women

chevron.com/sustainability
3

“getting results the right way  
isn’t always easy, but at chevron we  
know it’s the sustainable way”
– mike wirth

The health and safety of our workforce is core to  
The Chevron Way. We strive to provide effective  
health and education programs to employees and to 
residents of the communities where we operate. We 
understand that self-care, mental health and emotional 
well-being are integral to employee health, safety  
and productivity.

Through our commitment to operational excellence, 
dedi cation to partnership, and support for developing  
the potential of our people, Chevron is focused  
on what it takes to lead the right way.

We proudly embrace our role and go forward with 
confidence and determination, committed to making 
vital contributions on the journey ahead. 

Thank you for your engagement, trust and partnership. 

Sincerely,

Michael K. Wirth 
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Officer

In addition, we are making great progress in growing  
our capabilities to produce lower carbon intensity  
fuels through agreements with Bunge, CalBio, 
Brightmark, Gevo and Renewable Energy Group.

contributing to a more prosperous world

In this year’s report, we have included our contribution 
to Ipieca’s SDG Roadmap for the oil and gas sector. 
Chevron supports the United Nations Sustainable 
Devel op ment Goals through our day-to-day operations, 
partner ship initiatives and social investments. Tengiz-
chevroil in 2021 supported Kazakhstani companies with  
the highest percentage of total spend since 2010 – an  
example of how we can use our supply chain to create  
opportuni ties for local businesses. Chevron’s water 
management practices utilize several methods to reduce  
operational demand for fresh water. We continue to 
partner with organizations like the World Business 
Council on Sustainable Development and are contrib-
uting to the Global Water Solutions Project to develop 
new tools to strive to make more fresh water available 
for communities where we operate. Many more  
such examples are noted in this report.

human ingenuity drives it all

We invest to develop the full potential of people, 
believing this offers the best path to a better  
future for all. 

In 2021, we made strong progress on our Racial  
Equity strategy and continued executing our  
$15 million commitment to address racial inequality  
in the United States. 

chevron.com/sustainability
4

2021 ESG highlights

protecting the 
environment

empowering  
people

getting results  
the right way

> 35% GHG  
reduction target
set for Upstream carbon intensity 
(Scope 1 and 2) by 2028  
from our 2016 baseline

2050 net zero  
aspiration
adopted for Upstream GHG  
emissions (Scope 1 and 2);  
see page 15 for more details

portfolio carbon 
intensity metric
developed encompassing  
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions

launched 
Chevron New 
Energies

50%

reduced flaring  
since 2016

top quartile 
performance

maintained in Upstream oil  
and gas GHG intensity 

$21.1B

record free cash flow in 2021 –  
25% greater than our previous high

34 years

in a row of increasing annual  
dividend payout per share

directly linked Chevron  
Incentive Plan to achieving energy 
transition milestones

100+ 
engagements
carried out with investors and 
stakeholders in 2021

lobbying  
and trade 
associations

#64 out of top 250

#172 out of top 750

202220222022

top marks for  
17th consecutive year

100% for 3rd consecutive year

© 2021 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved. 
Bluehouse 1021-1411497

furthered commitment to 
transparency by disclosing all 
contributions to trade associations  
and publishing list twice a year

chevron.com/sustainability
5

in this report

protecting the
environment

empowering 
people

getting results 
the right way

we focus our sustainability efforts 
on addressing environmental, social 
and governance issues, including 
implementing strong environmental 
stewardship, putting people at  
the center of everything we do and 
achieving results the right way

for complete reporting, visit  
chevron.com/sustainability

message from our chairman and CEO 

2021 ESG highlights 

board of directors 

board insight 

focusing on what matters 

protecting the environment 

climate change 

environmental risk management 

water 

biodiversity 

empowering people 

diversity and inclusion 

human rights 

richmond, california, U.S. 

creating prosperity 

contributing to the UN SDGs 

getting results the right way 

governance 

cybersecurity 

health and safety 

performance 

performance data 

additional information 

2

5

7

8

11

13

14

23

26

29

32

33

37

40

42

44

46

47

52

54

58

59

75

chevron.com/sustainability
6

 
board  
of directors

Michael K. (Mike) Wirth 
Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer

Enrique Hernandez, Jr. 
(3, 4)

Dambisa F. Moyo 
(1)

Wanda M. Austin  
(2, 3)

Marillyn A. Hewson  
(1)

Debra Reed-Klages  
(1)

John B. Frank  
(1)

Jon M. Huntsman Jr.  
(3, 4)

Ronald D. Sugar  
(2, 3)

Alice P. Gast
(2, 4)

Charles W. Moorman 
(2, 3)

D. James Umpleby III 
(2, 4)

Committees of the Board
1  Audit: Debra Reed-Klages, Chair
2  Board Nominating and Governance: Wanda M. Austin, Chair
3  Management Compensation: Charles W. Moorman, Chair
4  Public Policy and Sustainability: Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Chair

chevron.com/sustainability
7

 
board insight

a conversation with debra reed-klages

Independent Director Debra Reed-Klages had a virtual sit-down with Vanessa Teran, an employee 
network specialist in our Diversity, Inclusion, and Ombuds organization. Mrs. Teran is a proud 
member of Somos (Spanish for “We are”), one of Chevron’s 12 employee networks that promote 
diversity and inclusion. Somos provides leadership development, promotes inclusive behaviors, and 
helps create meaningful connections with Latin American and Hispanic employees at Chevron. 

Their discussion covered a wide range of topics – from expectations regarding the pace of the 
energy transition to the role diversity can play in managing organizational change. Ms. Reed-Klages 
shared her thoughts on Chevron’s role in a lower carbon future and the thoughtful approach we 
have taken thus far to advance an orderly transition. 

Debra Reed-Klages, Audit Committee Chair

Vanessa Teran, Employee Network Specialist

chevron.com/sustainability
8

Teran: Can you reflect on how Chevron is 
managing the energy transition? 

Teran: What have you learned about  
Chevron’s culture since you joined the Board? 

Reed-Klages: Chevron’s approach to the energy 
transition balances ambition and reality. It recognizes 
that the energy transition is exactly that – a transition. 
The world needs energy, and advancing to a lower 
carbon future should not leave anyone behind. We are 
driving down the carbon intensity of our oil and natural 
gas production today and investing to develop lower 
carbon energy solutions for tomorrow. A diversity  
of approaches toward achieving a lower carbon future 
is essential. Chevron is targeting the sectors of the 
econo my that are difficult to decarbonize – manufac tur-
ing, aviation and heavy-duty transportation – because 
they are much more difficult to electrify than light-duty 
transportation. Chevron has the capabilities, assets 
and customers to drive change and innovation in 
these critical sectors, but such innovation will require 
ambitious government policies designed to align  
goals, create viable markets and serve as a catalyst  
for action. 

Teran: Can you share how the Board  
approached the launch of Chevron New  
Energies (CNE)? 

Reed-Klages: I am really excited about CNE. Our  
port folio of energy technologies is expected to evolve 
over time as we advance toward a lower carbon future. 
Chevron recognized that to be a future leader, we 
needed to create an organization with a singular focus 
on pursuing lower carbon businesses. CNE builds on 
Chevron’s competitive advantages and provides a 
platform to accelerate lower carbon business activities 
in harder-to-abate sectors. For example, Chevron’s 
experience in operating complex refineries supports our 
hydrogen efforts; our experience in drilling helps us  
be leaders in carbon capture, utilization and storage;  
and our customer base in harder-to-abate sectors 
benefits from our ability to develop lower carbon 
products and solutions. In addition, Chevron is a goal-
oriented organization, and CNE’s launch has helped 
focus the business on achieving the hydrogen and 
carbon capture targets we have set for ourselves.

Reed-Klages: I’ve been particularly struck by the  
pride employees take in their jobs and the variety and  
length of their careers at Chevron. As employees move  
through different roles, they learn the implications of  
decisions on other parts of the business and build a  
robust picture of what drives value. Employees care  
about colleagues and business performance because  
they want to be a part of Chevron’s future. I’ve also  
been struck by the themes of caring and doing the right 
thing that permeate Chevron’s culture. For example, 
Chevron discloses GHG emissions data and established 
carbon intensity reduction targets on an equity basis –  
covering GHG emissions from company-operated 
and nonoperated joint ven tures. Despite having less 
control over nonoperated joint ventures, transparently 
communicating our progress toward achieving global 
GHG emissions reduction goals is the right thing to do. 

Teran: How does the Board embrace  
diversity and why does diversity matter? 

Reed-Klages: In November 2021, Chevron was 
recognized by the Women’s Forum of New York for 
having more than 40% of our Board seats held by 
women. Overall, the Board seeks to achieve diversity of 
age, gender and ethnicity and recognizes it’s important 
to refresh Board membership and committee chair 
positions to introduce fresh ideas and perspectives. 
This multidimensional diversity enables the Board to 
challenge itself and management from different points 
of view. Chevron believes innovative solutions to our 
most complex challenges emerge when diverse people, 
ideas and experiences come together in an inclusive 
environment. I believe diversity brings not only new 
ideas and perspectives, but also resilience through 
change. Inclusion cultivates authenticity and a sense 
of belonging that can foster meaningful connections 
among employees. These connections can give people 
the strength they will need as our business evolves  
and we advance a lower carbon future. 

“I believe diversity brings not only  
new ideas and perspectives,  
but also resilience through change”

– debra reed-klages

chevron.com/sustainability
9

our  
purpose

we develop the affordable,  
reliable, ever-cleaner energy that  
enables human progress

our  
vision

to be the global energy company  
most admired for its people,  
partnership and performance

Photo: Employees at Tengizchevroil in Kazakhstan are  
working to start up the Future Growth Project and Wellhead  
Pressure Management Project.

chevron.com/sustainability
10

focusing on  
what matters

stakeholder engagement and issue prioritization

Our sustainability reporting focuses on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) issues that matter to our business  
and our stakeholders. Thoughtful engagement around priority 
issues (sometimes called “material issues” in the context 
of ESG reporting frameworks1) helps us assess and, where 
necessary, refresh our ESG strategy and commitments and 
validate priorities in relation to business risk and opportunities. 

The content for our Corporate Sustainability Report (2021) 
was identified through issue prioritization processes  
and engagements with internal and external stakeholders 
through out the year. To gain insight into ESG issues and 
reporting trends, we engage with numerous third-party 
groups, including: World Business Council for Sustainable 
Develop ment, World Economic Forum, Business for Social 
Responsibility and Ipieca. In addition, we benchmark and 
obtain third-party reviews of our prior year’s Sustainability 
Report and send questionnaires to more than 100 internal 
subject matter experts and stakeholders to test our thinking. 
In 2021, we had more than 100 engagements with investors 
and other stake holders in which a wide range of issues 
was discussed, such as climate change, corporate culture, 
cybersecurity, water, human capital management and 
employee mental health following COVID-19. As part of our 
reporting cycle, we provide relevant members of the Executive 
Leadership Team and senior management, the Global Issues 
Committee, and the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability 
Committee with the opportunity to review and provide input  
to the planned content for our voluntary Sustainability Report. 

Since 2020, we have partnered with Datamaran, an ESG  
risk identification and monitoring software company that  
uses a comprehensive data-driven process to identify, 
prioritize and monitor ESG issues. Its business intelligence 
tool aims to leverage artificial intelligence to incorporate 
a wide array of inputs, including corporate reports, global 
regulations, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 

1  With respect to the use of the term material, individual companies are best  
suited to determine which information is material under the long-standing  
U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term, and whether to disclose this infor-
mation in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission financial filings.

(SASB) metrics, social media and online news. We believe  
this tool is one of many useful inputs into our overall process 
for assessing the relevance of ESG issues and trends and  
that it helps us evaluate our alignment with diverse and 
sometimes competing stakeholder interests. 

Commitment to transparency
We demonstrate our commitment to transparency by report-
ing metrics and performance data annually. To deter mine 
which metrics to include, we consider the reporting guidance, 
indicators and terminology of the SASB, Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability 
Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020) by 
Ipieca, the International Association for Oil & Gas Producers 
and the American Petroleum Institute, as well as other leading 
reporting frameworks. We have also disclosed our ESG data, 
including GHG emissions data, in the IHS Markit ESG Reporting 
Repository to enable investors and other stakeholders to 
efficiently compare ESG data across sectors and reporting 
frameworks in the absence of consistent mandatory reporting 
requirements.

Responding to our stakeholders 
Our stakeholder engagement process has resulted in  
action in our business and enhancements to our reporting. 
These are but a few examples:

•  In 2021, in response to a proxy proposal and investor feed-

back, we created an updated lobbying and trade association 
webpage that includes additional transparency on both 
lobbying and political contributions.

•  Discussions with investors have shaped our reporting  
and led us to utilize SASB and TCFD frameworks for 
sustainability disclosures. Beginning in 2019, we enhanced 
our reporting by aligning our performance data table with 
the recommen dations of the SASB voluntary framework, 
as reflected in our SASB index column. In 2020, we began 
considering how our data related to the core Stakeholder 
Capitalism metrics devel oped by the World Economic 
Forum. These enhance ments help provide comparable 
information for investors and other stakeholders. 

chevron.com/sustainability
11

•  Employees regularly express their thoughts and  

con cerns to management through many formal and  
informal channels, including town hall meetings,  
employee pulse surveys and our Workplace platform.  
A recurring theme has been transparency and equity  
in job selection pro cesses. Chevron identifies leaders to 
participate in our internal job selection meetings who  

act as a neutral third party focused on recognizing 
unconscious bias. The goal is to facilitate open  
discussions and bring more transparency to our  
decision-making processes.

The table below highlights how we engage with our key 
stakeholder groups and what topics we typically discuss.

stakeholder engagement 

stakeholders

what do we discuss?

how do we engage?

stockholders

•  Climate change and the energy transition
•  Environmental impacts
•  Executive compensation
•  Governance
•  Risk management
•  Social issues and human rights

•  Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
•  Disclosure alignment with SASB and TCFD reporting frameworks
•  ESG engagements
•  Quarterly analyst calls
•  Securities and Exchange Commission filings
•  Stockholder communication

employees

•  Career development and advancement
•  Climate change and the energy transition
•  Compensation, benefits and equal opportunity
•  Health, safety and the environment
•  Well-being and stress management

•  Employee networks
•  Employee surveys
•  Global Office of Ombuds
•  Town halls
•  Workplace by Facebook – an internal and informal social platform

suppliers  
and 
contractors

•  Climate change and the energy transition
•  Health, safety and the environment
•  Local employment and contracting 

opportunities

•  Supplier diversity in the United States

communities

governments

•  Asset retirement and environmental  

remediation

•  Health, safety and the environment
•  Land use
•  Local workforce and career training
•  Project and operational impacts
•  Social investment

•  Climate change and the energy transition
•  Cultural heritage management
•  Economic benefit and jobs
•  Energy supply and security
•  Health, safety and the environment
•  Social issues and human rights

•  Advanced supplier relationship and service quality programs,  
which focus on collaborative improvement of mutual goals

•  Contractor Health, Environment and Safety Management process, 

which includes forums, meetings and audits

•  Engagements with local suppliers
•  Support and participation in various woman- and minority-owned 

supplier diversity councils 

•  Community feedback hotlines
•  Grievance mechanisms
•  Local staff dedicated to community engagement
•  Regional development committees/strategic partnerships
•  Town halls
•  Volunteering
•  Websites, media and social media

•  Engagement with all levels of government
•  Industry and trade association policymaking and advocacy
•  Promoting Chevron’s Statement on Human Rights Defenders  

and expectations of suppliers, contractors and business partners  
to comply

•  Regulatory rulemaking
•  Respect for Indigenous rights through Chevron Resettlement 

Guidance and Indigenous Peoples’ Guidance

•  Climate change and the energy transition
•  Economic development
•  Social issues and human rights
•  Transparency

•  Participation in international climate initiatives and reporting 

frameworks

•  Participation in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
•  Participation in United Nations’ working groups and other 

NGOs

customers

•  Environmental management 
•  Health and safety performance
•  Lower carbon
•  Product and service quality
•  Social issues and human rights
•  Supply chain oversight
•  Timely delivery
•  Training 

multistakeholder initiatives

•  Partnerships for environmental research

•  Chevron Consumer Connection Center with support as needed  
from relevant corporate affairs departments and leadership

•  Customer questionnaires
•  Local customer service centers and support teams
•  Regular customer engagements
•  Regular engagement between sales teams and our business 

customers

chevron.com/sustainability
12

protecting the 
environment

We work to deliver the energy the world needs  
while protecting the environment.

Photo: Tanks at our El Segundo Refinery in California store  
biofeedstocks, which can be converted into renewable fuels.  
In this section, learn more about our approach to climate change.

environment

climate change

driving energy progress essential to a growing, dynamic world

higher returns, lower carbon

Chevron has a long history of producing oil, natural gas and 
other products that enable human progress, which we proudly 
continue today as we help evolve the energy future. Our 
primary objective is to deliver higher returns, lower carbon 
and superior shareholder value in any business environment. 
Many published outlooks conclude that fossil fuels will remain 
a significant part of the energy system for years to come and 
that the energy mix will increasingly include lower carbon 
intensity sources. The world’s energy demands are greater 
now than at any time in human history. 

Affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy is essential to 
achieving a more prosperous world. Our strategy is  
clear – leverage our strengths to deliver lower carbon  
energy to a growing world. Our capabilities, assets  
and customers are distinct advantages. We are building  
on these strengths as we aim to lead in lower carbon  
intensity oil, products and natural gas and to advance  
new products and solutions that reduce the carbon  
emissions of major industries. We’re driving energy  
prog ress essential to a growing, dynamic world.

our objective
higher returns, lower carbon

our strategy
leverage our strengths to deliver  
lower carbon energy to a growing world

we aim to lead in lower carbon intensity oil, products  
and natural gas and to advance new products and solutions  
that reduce the carbon emissions of major industries

$8B

in lower carbon  
investments by 2028

We believe growth in renewable  
fuels, hydrogen, carbon capture and  
offsets may enable 30 million  
tonnes of CO2e reductions by 2028.

$2B

in carbon reduction  
projects by 2028

We have identified nearly  
100 GHG abatement projects  
and plan to spend more  
than $300 million in 2022.

our 2028 
carbon intensity  
targets:

upstream carbon intensity  
(Scope 1 and 2): 24 kg CO2e/boe

refining carbon intensity  
(Scope 1 and 2): 36 kg CO2e/boe

portfolio carbon intensity  
(Scope 1, 2 and 3): 71 g CO2e/MJ

boe = barrels of oil-equivalent MJ = megajoules

chevron.com/sustainability
14

upstream net zero 2050 aspiration

)
e
o
b
/
e
2
O
C
s
m
a
r
g
o

l
i
k
(

s
n
o
i
s
s
i
m
e
2
d
n
a
1
e
p
o
c
S

40

30

20

10

0

2016 emissions 
intensity

Achieved

Combustion

Portfolio

GHG
reductions

Future 
GHG
reductions

Innovation
& offsets

Flaring

Fugitives & venting
Indirect emissions

2016

2016–2020

projected
2021–2028 

projected
2029–2050

boe = barrels of oil-equivalent

estimated high and low ranges

Net zero

projected
2050

potential scope 1 and 2 reduction opportunities 2029–2050

source type

reduction strategies

supporting policy

Direct  
energy use: 
combustion

Flaring

Fugitives & 
venting

Energy management,  
e.g., efficiency 
improvements, fuel 
switching to lower carbon 
sources, CCUS, offsets

Carbon pricing, carbon-
related reporting, 
innovation support  
for technologies like  
CCUS, offsets

Gas market develop ment, 
operational best practices, 
e.g., flow assurance

Infrastructure support for 
gas market development

Methane management,  
e.g., leak detection  
and repair, pressure-
management systems

Equipment performance 
standards

Indirect energy 
use: imported 
electricity & 
steam

Energy management,  
e.g., efficiency 
improvements, fuel 
switching to lower carbon 
sources, CCUS, offsets

Carbon pricing, carbon-
related reporting, 
innovation support  
for technologies like  
CCUS, offsets

achieving net zero at least cost to society

We aspire to achieve net zero Upstream emissions (Scope 1  
and 2) by 2050. Accomplishing this aspiration depends  
on continuing progress on commercially viable technology; 
govern ment policy; successful negotiations for carbon 
capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) and nature-based 
projects; the availability of cost-effective, verifiable offsets in 
the global market; and the granting of necessary permits by 
governing authorities. 

An economically efficient approach to GHG abatement 
An economically efficient approach to GHG abatement is to 
prioritize efforts that curtail emissions at the lowest cost per 
tonne, irrespective of the sectors in which those abate ments 
occur. Marginal Abatement Cost Curves (MACCs) provide 
Chevron with a methodology to identify and prioritize a port-
folio of the most promising GHG abatement opportunities 
across operations. This MACC approach has provided other 
companies and gov ern ments with investment insights that 
focus on achieving the greatest volume of GHG reductions at 
the least cost to society. 

Reduce carbon intensity of our own operations 
Our target for Upstream oil and natural gas intensity is  
24 kg CO2e/boe. To reduce the carbon intensity of our own 
operations, we have identified nearly 100 projects and  
plan to spend more than $300 million in 2022. In 2021, we 
made progress on 36 pro jects and completed five. We expect 
to spend approxi mately $2 billion total on similar projects 
through 2028. When completed, the projects are expected  
to deliver approximately 4 million tonnes of emissions 
reductions per year. In the years beyond 2028 in our MACC 

port folio planning, we have identified opportunities that have 
the potential to further lower our Upstream carbon intensity to 
the mid-teens, helping us get closer to our net zero Upstream 
aspiration. Significant technology advancements and the 
development of large offsets markets could enable reductions 
to net zero by mid-century. 

using carbon price as the primary policy tool 

In 2020, more than 60% of our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
equity GHG emissions were in regions with existing or devel-
op ing carbon-pricing policies. Equity emissions include 
emissions from operated and nonoperated joint-venture 
assets based on Chevron’s financial interest. To reduce 
emissions, we believe a price on carbon is the most efficient 
mechanism for public policy because it harnesses market 
forces. For example, our Eastern Mediterranean business unit 
supported Israel’s adoption of a price on carbon as the primary 
policy tool for fulfilling the state’s carbon reduction goals.  
By adopting a market-based approach to carbon reduction, 
Israel has shown it’s at the forefront of countries around the 
world in addressing global climate change.

We use carbon prices and  
derived carbon costs in  
business planning, investment  
decisions, impairment  
reviews, reserves calculations,  
and assessment of  
carbon reduc tion and new  
energy opportunities.

chevron.com/sustainability
15

 
 
 
 
 
 
developing a balanced and measured approach 

A balanced and measured approach aims to meet long- 
term economic, environmental and energy-security needs; 
allocate costs in an equitable, gradual and predictable 
way; and consider both GHG mitigation and climate 
change adaptation. Policies should promote market-based 
mechanisms that create a level playing field, do not pick 
winners or losers, and eliminate inefficient, higher-cost direct 
regulations. As a California-based company with significant 
operations and investment in the state, we have a long history 
of engagement and advocacy both directly and through 
our trade associations. This has included engagement and 
advocacy regarding California’s cap-and-trade program, 
the first economywide carbon-pricing program in the United 
States. This program uses several key design elements of 
balanced and measured climate policy by covering all sectors 
of the economy, leveraging carbon pricing and crediting 
additional emissions offsets outside its cap. 

supporting promising technologies

Well-designed climate policy supports research, development 
and early-stage deployment of promising technologies. At 
the federal level in the United States, Chevron supported the 
Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act’s inclusion 
of critical provisions encouraging development of carbon 
capture, utilization and storage and hydrogen technologies. 

Early-stage federal investment can help the United States 
become a leader in developing emerging technologies that the 
world’s leading energy and climate experts deem critical to 
addressing climate change. 

engaging globally

Climate change requires global engagement and action. 
We believe market-based mechanisms applied across the 
broadest possible coverage of emissions are the most 
effective and efficient way to reduce emissions. As a member 
of the International Emissions Trading Association (IETA), 
Chevron has supported IETA’s mission to be the trusted 
business voice on market-based climate solutions. Through 
IETA and other business groups, Chevron remains engaged 
as official observers to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, which seeks to build global 
consensus on cooperative approaches between governments, 
NGOs, research organizations and other stakeholders to 
achieve the long-term goals of the Paris Agreement.

In addition, well-designed policy should enable linking with  
other markets to build a globally coordinated system. Linking 
to other jurisdictions directly or through flexible market mecha -
nisms such as offsets can create opportunities for global 
coordination while avoiding unintended trade and investment 
impacts and the risk of offshoring jobs and emissions.

climate change policy framework

our overarching vision:

we support policy that enables the realization of  
a lower carbon future at least cost to society

we believe  
policymakers should:

+

+

+

ensure global 
engagement  
and action

encourage  
investment in  
technology,  
research and 
innovation

take a balanced  
and measured 
approach

promote  
transparency  
and equity

•  Include all sectors of the economy

•  Enable linking with other markets

  •  Support early-stage  

elements of  
well-designed policy:

•  Complement and reinforce rather 

•  Recognize and account for  

than hinder market efficiency

•  Utilize a price on carbon as the 

primary policy tool

negative emissions technologies 
and offsets

pre-commercial activity and 
research and development  
for breakthrough technologies

chevron.com/sustainability
16

third-party 
operations

production

chevron 
operations

production

+

+

+

+

transport

transport

+

+

processing

processing

transport

transport

use of  
products

CCUS and 
offsets

chevron’s portfolio carbon intensity (PCI)
The PCI metric, which includes Scope 1, 2 and 3, represents the carbon  
intensity across the full value chain associated with bringing products to market.

supporting transparency

Consistent and comparable climate reporting
We aim to lead the industry in transparent climate change-
related reporting and support efforts to enhance the 
comparability and consistency of such information in public 
disclosures. We have voluntarily reported our greenhouse gas 
emissions, including Scope 3 emissions from the use of our 
products, for nearly two decades. In 2018, Chevron was among 
the first oil and gas companies to publish a report aligned with 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and 
we issued a fourth update in October 2021. We helped the 
American Petroleum Institute develop a voluntary template 
for oil and gas companies to report core GHG emissions data 
to enable greater comparability in climate-related reporting. 

Full value chain carbon accounting
We believe transparent data and policies enable consumer 
choice and the most efficient GHG reductions. In addition, 
verifiable, full value chain carbon intensity data can enable 
price discovery, a comparison of the “green premium,”  
and a supply chain of affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner 
products. In 2021, we introduced a portfolio carbon intensity 
(PCI) metric that represents the carbon intensity across  

the full value chain associated with bringing products to 
market, including Scope 3 emissions. This methodology  
is available on our website for anyone to use and compare 
energy companies. In our case, Scope 3 emissions result 
principally from customers’ use of the products we sell and  
are the largest category of emissions associated with 
Chevron’s activities. Our PCI target for 2028 is 71 g CO2e/MJ,  
a > 5% decrease from 2016.

Responsible lower carbon energy
In collaboration with Pavilion Energy and QatarEnergy,  
we jointly developed a liquefied natural gas (LNG) carbon-
footprinting methodology for delivered cargoes to help 
advance a standard for GHG product-level accounting.  
This methodology is expected to improve accuracy and build 
stakeholder confidence in data reliability. In early 2022, we 
announced a one-year pilot with Project Canary to enhance 
our ability to demonstrate transparency in how we are  
lower ing methane emissions in our operations. Project  
Canary will use its comprehensive TrustWell™ Certification 
program to review and analyze the environmental and social 
performance aspects of individual wells and facilities in 
Colorado and Texas.

chevron.com/sustainability
17

lowering the methane intensity of our operations 

Chevron’s efforts to achieve our 2028 Upstream methane 
inten  sity target of 2.0 kg CO2e/boe include facility design, 
GHG reduction projects and exploring emerging technology 
to identify opportunities to further lower emissions. Our 
planned GHG reduction projects include opportunities to 
reduce vent ing, such as a nitrogen blanket system for the tank 
farm at Tengizchevroil (TCO), and to reduce flaring, which also 
reduces methane emissions. Our standard facility design in 
the Permian Basin includes methane emission controls, such 
as vapor recovery units at central tank batteries and pneumatic 
controllers that utilize compressed air instead of natural gas. 
We are committed to further improving methane detection and 
direct measurement through our global methane detection 
campaign, which focuses on scaling up proven and emerging 
detection technologies and modes of deployment, such 
as satellites, aircraft and drones. To date, we have completed 
campaigns in Argentina, the Denver-Julesburg Basin, the  
Gulf of Mexico, the Permian Basin and TCO.

We are active participants in multiple partnerships and 
associations focused on methane emissions. Chevron is a 
founding member of the Collaboratory to Advance Methane 
Science (CAMS), a joint industry project to conduct peer- 
reviewed research around methane emissions. Recent CAMS 
projects include an aerial survey to understand sources 
in the Permian Basin and the first measurement study of 
methane emissions from LNG transport activities. Chevron 
is also a founding partner of the Environmental Partnership, 
an industry initiative aimed at accelerating the adoption of 
practices that reduce methane emissions. To date, companies 
in this initiative have conducted more than 770,000 leak 
detection surveys and replaced more than 27,000 pneumatic 
controllers with lower- or non-emitting technologies. Recently, 
the Environmental Partnership collaborated with several 
aerial survey technology providers, including the NASA Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory/University of Arizona, GHGSat, Bridger 
Photonics and Kairos Aerospace.

leading methane intensity performance in the permian basin

We’re investing to reduce methane emissions and flaring. Improving methane detection,  
rethinking facility designs, optimizing equipment and deploying new operational practices  
are a few examples of the projects underway to lower emissions.

Our Mid-Continent business unit has piloted eight advanced  
methane detection solutions since 2016 and selected an aerial laser-  
based methane scanning technology for broader deployment  
in the Permian. Aircraft-based solutions help us and other nearby  
operators cost-effectively screen assets for methane emissions  
across a wide geographic footprint in the Permian.

Completion operations flow 
back to permanent facilities  
that have equipment  
to capture entrained gas.

Since 2011, standard facility 
designs have included 
compressed air for pneumatic 
controllers, which eliminate 
natural gas venting for  
that application.

Standard designs for tank 
batteries and compressor 
stations include Vapor Recovery 
Units, which gather emissions 
that can be reused onsite  
or sold to third parties.

Flaring intensity was 79% less 
than Permian Basin average 
in 2020 due to infrastructure 
planning to create gas- 
take away capacity.

chevron.com/sustainability
18

eliminate  
routine flaring

Chevron endorses the World Bank’s  
Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative.

Jesse Sandlin
Lead Operational Excellence 
Management System  
(OEMS) Specialist,  
Rockies Business Unit

employee spotlight

Early in 2021, I was asked to serve as project manager  
for Chevron’s methane detection campaign, which  
is tasked with deploying methane detection technology  
to cover 80% of our equity emissions. 

Our team works with business units across Chevron’s 
asset classes to design tailored methane detection 
solutions to accommodate operational needs, policy 
concerns and regulatory protocols. We are experi - 
ment ing with a variety of technologies to expand our 
methane detection capabilities, including deploying 
airborne sensors using satellites, aircraft and drones.  
In addition to working within Chevron’s business units, 
we also collaborate with regulators, universities and 
other operators to evaluate equipment and share 
best practices.

I’m especially proud of our work with the Gulf of  
Mexico business unit, where we became one of the 
first oper ators to deploy a methane detection solution 
offshore using drones. Offshore is especially challenging 
because ocean water can confuse detection technology 
and create false readings. In addition, platforms have 
layered equipment, which can make it difficult to identify 
the source of emissions from overhead sensors alone.  
To solve this challenge, we combined emissions detec-
tion equipment from our San Joaquin Valley business 
unit with drones used offshore and developed a new 
flight procedure to detect methane emissions from the 
platforms. After identification, the business units work  
to remove or mitigate the emissions source.

Methane reduction is a global challenge, and there is  
not a one-size-fits-all solution. I am inspired by  
the level of expertise within our company and our  
culture of innovation and experimentation.

reducing flaring 

We flare natural gas only when necessary for safety and 
operational purposes and in areas where pipelines and other 
alternatives for transporting gas do not exist. Our 2028 
Upstream carbon intensity target includes a specific target for 
flaring intensity of 3.0 kg CO2e/boe, which is a 66% reduction 
from our 2016 baseline. Chevron endorsed the World Bank’s 
Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, which brings together 
govern ments, oil companies and development institutions  
to cooperate to eliminate routine flaring by no later than  
2030. Chevron is an active participant in the World Bank’s 
Global Gas Flaring Reduction (GGFR) voluntary partnership.  
GGFR recently partnered with the Payne Institute for 
Public Policy at the Colorado School of Mines to develop a 
transparent web platform to support real-time mapping  
and tracking of global gas flaring data. Chevron supported  
this partnership through our membership in the Oil and  
Gas Climate Initiative.

applying world-class capabilities 

Future progress will require applying our world-class 
capabilities as we aim to deliver higher returns in a lower 
carbon world. Our capabilities, assets and customers  
are distinct advantages. Chevron Technology Ventures  
targets external innovation and transformational tech-
nology. The Chevron Technical Center develops and deploys 
technology across the entire business, including integrating 
low-carbon technology into our operations. In 2021, we 
formed Chevron New Energies, a new organization dedicated 
to growing hydrogen, CCUS, offsets and other emerging 
energies. Chevron Strategy and Sustainability continues to 
steward the company’s long-term strategy by integrating 
climate change, energy transition and other sustainability 
themes into macroeconomic forecasting, supply-and-demand 
forecasting, price forecasting, portfolio modeling and 
competitor intelligence.

houston CCS

Chevron and more than 10 industry partners have agreed  
to support large-scale deployment of carbon capture  
and storage (CCS) to help decarbonize industrial facilities  
in Houston, Texas, one of the largest concentrated sources 
in the United States. The organizations are considering 
using CCS technology at facilities that generate electricity 
and manufacture everyday products such as plastics, 
motor fuels and packaging. The collabo ration could lead  
to capturing and storing up to 50 million metric tons of  
CO2 per year by 2030 and about 100 million metric tons  
by 2040.

chevron.com/sustainability
19

In early 2022, Chevron 
announced an agreement with 
Iwatani to co-develop and  
construct 30 hydrogen fueling 
sites in California by 2026.

developing hydrogen as a fuel source 

Chevron’s approach to hydrogen envisions the use of green, 
blue and gray hydrogen. We believe the use of blue and  
green hydrogen as a fuel source can help reduce the amount 
of GHG emissions entering the atmosphere. Although gray 
hydrogen is viewed as not directly supporting decarbonization 
of the energy sector, we believe that early-use cases of gray 
hydrogen can provide key opportunities to minimize the 
risks of technology; enable development of supporting infra-
structure, including fueling stations; and contribute to lessons 
learned. Chevron holds more than 75 patents in hydrogen from 
early commercial ventures that are applicable to our future 
development plans. 

We have agreements in place with Toyota, Cummins and 
Caterpillar to explore commercially viable hydrogen opportu-
nities. These agree ments cover an array of topics, from public 
policy to hydrogen-powered transportation to infrastructure.

In 2021, we announced an investment in Hydrogenious, a 
potential bulk hydrogen storage and transportation technology.  
In addition, Chevron announced in early 2022 an agreement 
with Iwatani to co-develop and construct 30 hydrogen fueling 
sites in California by 2026.

chevron new energies 

Our New Energies organization seeks to accelerate lower 
carbon solutions for our customers such as those in the 
aviation, marine, heavy-duty transportation and industrial 
sectors, so they can achieve their emissions reduction goals.

Hydrogen, CCUS and offsets, and renewable fuels are at the 
core of this strategy and are an important part of addressing 
climate change. These businesses support Chevron’s efforts to 
reduce GHG emissions and are also expected to become high-
growth opportunities with the potential to generate accretive 
returns. We bring a unique set of capabilities to each of these 
areas. Our existing assets span the value chain and are in areas 
where we can grow demand based on cost-competitive supply 
combined with appropriate policy support. We have strong 
relationships with key customers and partners, which will be 
critical in developing economic projects that can scale quickly 
across a complex value chain.

2030 targets

150,000

tonnes 
hydrogen per year* 

25

million tonnes
carbon capture per year

40

billion BTUs 
renewable natural gas per day

100,000

barrels
renewable fuels production  
capacity per day

*  Chevron’s approach to hydrogen envisions the use of green, blue and gray hydrogen.

  BTUs = British thermal units

chevron.com/sustainability
20

growing our carbon capture business 

investing in scalable, nature-based solutions 

Achieving net zero Upstream emissions by 2050 is unlikely 
without scaled deployment of CCUS and other CO2 removal 
tech nologies. We see CCUS opportunities in two areas: 
reducing the carbon intensity of our existing assets and grow-
ing our carbon capture business, primarily through hubs with 
third-party emitters as partners and customers. Our initial 
carbon capture projects have been focused on decarbonizing 
existing assets – such as our Gorgon facility, one of the largest 
sequestration projects in the world, with the capacity to  
store up to 4 million tonnes of CO2 per year – providing us  
with key operational experience. Enterprisewide, we are 
targeting 25 million tonnes of CO2 per year in equity storage 
by the end of this decade. 

To achieve these ambitions, we’re exploring several hub 
opportunities in the United States and abroad, each including 
multiple large customers and with facility nameplate capac-
ities of between 5 million and 20 million tonnes of CO2 per 
year. We are advancing collaborative efforts with the U.S. 
Department of Energy and Svante to help develop innovative 
new technology to potentially reduce carbon capture costs. 
In addition, Chevron invested in Blue Planet to leverage carbon 
capture to produce low-carbon construction materials and to 
reduce the carbon intensity of industrial operations. In early 
2022, we announced an increased investment in Carbon Clean, 
a U.K.-based company with advantaged capture technology 
that is designed to reduce the costs and physical footprint 
required for carbon capture, minimizing site disruption and 
facilitating faster permitting. This partnership is an important 
step toward growing our future large-scale CCUS business.

Offsets are expected to make up a notable portion of global 
reductions, especially in sectors that are harder to abate or 
do not have cost-effective reduction opportunities. We are 
investing directly in scalable, nature-based solutions – like  
soil carbon storage, reforestation and mangrove restoration.  
In addition, we plan to monetize excess high-quality credits. 
We expect to be a portfolio supplier of offsets by providing 
more customers with offset-paired products. In March 2022,  
we announced an agreement with Restore the Earth Foun-
dation for a reforestation project for up to 8,800 acres  
of property in St. Charles Parish, Louisiana, U.S. 

Chevron’s experience in developing and using offsets dates 
back nearly two decades and is an important part of our 
operations in Australia, Canada, Colombia and California. 
We have a global carbon trading organization and actively 
participate in multiple registries and exchanges. Chevron is a 
founding member of the Markets for Natural Climate Solutions 
(NCS) Initiative. NCS markets provide a potentially cost- 
effective form of carbon management that can contribute  
to the goals of the Paris Agreement. In addition, Chevron is a 
consultative group member of the Institute of International 
Finance Taskforce on Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets 
(TSVCM). TSVCM brings together experts across the  
carbon market value chain to help build consensus on how 
best to scale up voluntary carbon markets. Chevron has 
invested in Boomitra, a startup developing an agricultural 
technology to enable farm carbon sequestration and 
monetization that has the potential to cost-effectively  
grow the supply of carbon offsets.

chevron.com/sustainability
21

carbon-negative renewable natural gas

Under the California Low Carbon Fuel Standard, 
renewable natural gas (RNG) produced from dairy 
biomethane can qualify as carbon negative on a 
lifecycle basis. Chevron intends to participate across 
the full renewable natural gas value chain using 
existing capabilities in marketing, sales, distribution, 
brands and infra structure to maximize margin.

10X 
increase 

we are targeting a tenfold increase in 
RNG production by 2025 versus  
2020 levels and intend to produce over 
40 billion BTUs per day by 2030

partnerships

We’re partnering with  
CalBio Energy, Brightmark 
and dairy farmers to  
market and produce RNG,  
which can be converted  
to compressed natural  
gas (CNG). 

existing  
pipeline  
infra structure

The dairy projects are  
designed to send bio-
methane to a processing 
facility, where it will 
be upgraded to meet 
quality specifications 
and transported through 
existing pipelines.

expanding  
retail network

We are targeting opening 
or rebranding more than 30 
CNG stations by 2025, which 
included opening our first 
Chevron-branded CNG site 
in Napa, California, in June 
2021. To expand our retail 
presence outside California, 
we announced a joint venture 
with Mercuria Energy to own 
and operate Beyond6 and its 
network of 60 CNG stations 
across the United States.

expanding 
commercial 
network

We are partnering with Clean 
Energy to provide CNG to 
truck operators at the ports of 
Los Angeles and Long Beach, 
California. We provide funding 
for truck operators to sub - 
sidize the cost of buying  
CNG-powered trucks through 
the Adopt-a-Port program.

reducing the carbon intensity of fuels 

We are complementing the strength of our traditional 
products business with new lower carbon intensity products. 
Renewable fuels are important products that can help reduce 
the lifecycle carbon intensity of transportation fuels while 
meeting the world’s growing energy needs. To establish 
a reliable supply chain from farmer to fueling station, we 
announced a joint venture with Bunge North America Inc. to 
secure renewable feedstocks. We also intend to collaborate 
with Gevo Inc. to jointly produce sustainable aviation fuel 
(SAF) and renewable blending components for motor gaso-
line. We tested a batch of SAF with Delta Air Lines and Google 
and tracked emissions data using cloud-based technology. 
The companies hope to create a common, more transparent 
model for analyzing potential GHG reductions that could be 
adopted by others. 

In February 2022, Chevron announced a definitive agreement 
to acquire Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG). REG is  
an inter national producer of lower carbon intensity fuels and  
utilizes a global integrated procurement, distribution and 
logistics network to operate 11 biorefineries. The acquisition 
seeks to combine REG’s growing renewable fuels production, 
leading feedstock capabil ities and organizational expertise 
in the renewable fuels industry with Chevron’s large manu-
facturing, distribution and commercial marketing position. 
Chevron expects this transaction to accelerate progress toward  
our goal to grow our renewable fuels production capacity to 
100,000 barrels per day by 2030 and position us to create  
an even stronger renewable fuels business that meets evolving 
customer needs. The proposed acquisition is subject to REG 
stockholder approval and other customary closing conditions.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/climatechange.

chevron.com/sustainability
22

environment

environmental risk management

protecting the environment takes commitment, 
 effective processes, leading technologies and dedicated people 

2021 
highlights

   Commenced deployment 
of the Environment Risk 
Management Process to 
integrate how we manage and 
mitigate environmental risk 
with community, health and 
social impacts 

   Deployed the Environment 
Focus Area Strategy to 
drive improvements in 
environmental performance 
throughout Chevron 

   Supported business units 
through research, technology 
and capability development 
to streamline reporting, 
assure effectiveness of 
safeguards and mitigate 
environmental risks

At Chevron, we seek to design and maintain an  
Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS)  
that recognizes the potential impact of many factors  
on the environment. This recognition is operationalized 
through our recently deployed Environment Focus  
Area (EFA) Strategy and Environment Risk Management 
Process (ERMP). This process seeks to go above and  
beyond local regulatory requirements, to strengthen our 
safeguards and apply lessons learned across Chevron. 
These updates provide an improved risk-based, data-
driven approach to manage and mitigate environmental 
risks associated with our operations and incorporate 
Chevron’s priorities of environmental stewardship and 
responsible operations into business decisions. 

Our EFA Strategy provides an integrated  
vision for achieving our goal of protecting the 
environment while providing affordable and  
reliable energy. The strategy helps us clarify  
our environmental expectations, including:

•  Preventing and mitigating the  

consequences of accidental releases

•  Reducing air emissions, including GHGs

•  Conserving and protecting water  

and biodiversity

•  Managing waste and wastewater

•  Conserving energy 

•  Retiring idle assets and reclaiming sites  
with residual environmental impacts

embedding environmental stewardship in our business

the chevron way: who we are, what we believe,  
how we achieve and where we aspire to go

OEMS: framework to manage and improve our  
health, safety and environmental performance

environment focus area strategy: strategy  
to drive improvements in environmental performance 
throughout Chevron

environment risk management process:  
process to identify and manage environmental risks,  
including those with community health and social  
impacts, across asset lifecycles

chevron.com/sustainability
23

Janelle Lewis
Lead Environmental Specialist,  
Chevron Pipeline and Power 

employee spotlight

At Chevron, I’ve had the opportunity to help develop a 
more holistic waste management strategy, recognizing 
that waste is intertwined with other factors that can 
impact the environment. In this capacity, I identified 
opportunities to optimize business units’ waste report-
ing practices and trained data reporters across the 
enterprise to align with our data reporting expectations. 
I’m proud of my role in improving the quality of our 
waste data because a robust data set enables us to 
make better decisions on how to optimize our waste 
management approach. 

I’ve also served as a technical resource across the 
company, helping solve complex waste challenges and 
share best practices. I’ve helped develop new methods 
to increase waste recovery that can mitigate risk, 
reduce cost and reduce our environmental footprint. 
For example, I managed a project that developed a new 
approach to removing surface scales from scrap metal 
using a fiber laser beam delivery system. This approach 
has the potential to increase recycling options for scrap 
metal and reduce the creation of secondary waste 
streams when compared with other methods.

I’m encouraged by Chevron’s approach to waste 
manage  ment through our implementation of the Third-
Party Waste Stewardship standard that establishes  
a consistent approach for how we select and set expec-
tations for third-party-owned facilities that handle  
waste generated from Chevron operations. This pro cess  
demonstrates how we work to influence the companies 
with whom we collaborate and illustrates Chevron’s 
commit ment to our core values, which include protection 
of human health, safety and the environment.

ipieca

As a member of the Ipieca Environment Group Impact 
Assessment Task Force, Chevron collaborated with the 
Climate Change Group to analyze guidance and approaches 
for integrating climate change risks into existing environ-
mental, social and health impact assessments.

The ERMP provides a framework to identify, assess, mitigate 
and manage environmental risks, including those involving 
community health and social risks, across the lifecycle of an 
asset. The process is designed to be fit-for-purpose so that it 
can be applied to activities with a broad range of complexity, 
including large projects and ongoing operations. The ERMP 
leverages the principles of our former Environmental, Social 
and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process and requires 
each business unit to address a broad scope of relevant 
environmental impacts. Though it is recommended that all 
new projects and activities apply the ERMP, business units 
have until year-end 2023 for full implementation. 

digital solutions 

Future environmental solutions rely on a strong foundation  
of standardized workflows, data automation, analytics  
and process integration. First deployed in 2020 at the 
Richmond Refinery, our Integrated Waste Solution (IWS) 
creates a digital interface between the personnel managing 
operations that generate waste and the environmental 
personnel responsible for waste handling and management. 
The solution automates and standardizes waste requests, 
approvals, track ing and payment, which saves time and puts 
in place safe guards. Through the development of IWS and 
related tech nologies, we seek to streamline our reporting, 
reduce waste management storage time and align with our 
Third-Party Waste Stewardship standard designed to mitigate 
waste disposal risks.

innovation

The Chevron Technical Center (CTC) supports Chevron’s 
businesses through research, technology and capability 
development. The CTC also helps bridge the gap between 
business unit needs and externally developed emerging 
technology solu tions such as technologies to generate 
biodiversity baselines, uninhabited aerial systems for 
environmental monitoring, real-time measurement 
tools for site assessment, and lower carbon solutions for 
environmental remediation.

Through research and development conducted in the  
Chevron Richmond Technology Center, we piloted the use  
of an infrared gun to rapidly measure total petroleum 
hydrocarbons in soil and drill cuttings at sites in California, 
Colorado and Michigan and deployed at full scale a similar 
commercially available device within our IndoAsia business 
unit. The technology eliminates the need to use any chemicals 
for sample extraction and analysis, and when used at scale,  
it enables faster turnaround and improved decision making  
in the field, which has resulted in notable cost savings. 

chevron.com/sustainability
24

examples of how we are working to reduce  
plastic waste in the environment 

advanced  
recycling

reducing  
plastic  
packaging

In 2021, Chevron worked with Chevron Phillips Chemical Company (CPChem) to process 
pyrolysis oil, a liquid feedstock made from post-use plastics, through the Pascagoula 
Refinery. CPChem uses the resulting materials to manufacture a product called Marlex® 
Anew™ Circular Polyethylene, a circular polymer that can be used to make a wide variety of 
products, from automotive parts to kayaks. Both Chevron and CPChem hold certifications 
through International Sustainability and Carbon Certification PLUS, a globally recognized 
sustainability certification system for renewable feedstocks. CPChem and Chevron are 
evaluating future collaborative opportunities to reinforce both companies’ sustainability-
related efforts and to support CPChem’s annual production target of 1 billion pounds  
of Marlex Anew Circular Polyethylene by 2030, estimated to divert 1.5 billion pounds per 
year of plastic from ending up in landfills.

Chevron Products Company makes the Havoline Brand of advanced passenger car motor 
oils. Havoline utilizes two different motor oil package styles that use recyclable cardboard 
to reduce plastic waste. PitPack® is a 6-gallon package used in fast lube and mechanic 
shops, while Havoline Smart Change® is a 6-quart package found on retail shelves and 
online for those who prefer to change their own oil. The PitPack reduces plastic waste by 
89%, while the Smart Change package reduces plastic waste by 70% vs. the equivalent 
traditional plastic bottles. In 2021, we added an ultra-premium product to our Havoline 
motor oil portfolio with Havoline® PRO-RS™, which will be available in both packaging 
styles. In addition, this is Chevron’s first renewable passenger car motor oil and is made 
with 25% sustainably sourced plant-based oils manufactured by Novvi. 

innovation

Through Chevron Technology Ventures, Chevron invested in GR3N, a Swiss-based startup 
that is developing plastics recycling technology to enable chemical recycling of PET-based 
waste generated from plastics widely used in single-use food and beverage packaging. 
GR3N has the potential to help reduce the carbon intensity of plastics manufacturing while 
supporting a broader global circular economy related to plastics.

Another innovation is Hottpad, a cost-efficient remediation 
technology that has a lower carbon intensity than traditional 
thermal methods. First used at the Chevron Batangas  
terminal in the Philippines, Hottpad has been piloted within 
the San Joaquin Valley business unit in California, with a  
full-scale deployment underway for Wafra Joint Operations  
in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

growing workforce capability

In 2021, 16 business units and 11 other stakeholder teams 
user-tested the new environment and stakeholder risk 
management tool, which collects baseline data for develop-
ing business unit risk profiles and assessing enterprise risk.  
We also hosted trainings to build competency with our 
qualified environmental facilitators, and these trainings 
included risk assessment workshops in Bangladesh and the 
Mid-Continent business unit. 

addressing plastic waste

Plastics are an essential part of modern life, and plastic waste 
should not end up in unintended places in the environment 
like rivers and oceans. We are taking steps to address plastic 
waste and support a circular economy in which post-use 
plastic is recycled, reused or repurposed. In 2019, CPChem 
became one of the founding members of the Alliance to End 
Plastic Waste, a nonprofit organization committed to reducing 
plastic waste globally. CPChem is a 50-50 joint venture 
between Chevron and Phillips 66.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/
environment#enhancingenvironmentalstewardship.

chevron.com/sustainability
25

environment

water

using water responsibly is integral to our values,  
environmental policy and practices

2021 
highlights

   Continued to strengthen 
responsible water stewardship 
through the deployment of 
the Environment Focus Area 
Strategy and the Environment 
Risk Management Process

   Completed water stress 
analysis for Chevron 
operations to generate data 
insights to inform strategy 
to reduce freshwater 
withdrawals in areas of  
high water stress

   Leveraged technology  
to increase reuse and 
recycling of wastewater  
and produced water in  
lieu of fresh water

In 2021, Chevron used the World Resources Institute (WRI) 
Aqueduct tool to map our operated assets in water-stressed 
areas as defined by WRI. Six out of 15 Upstream assets  
are in areas of high or extremely high water stress, and one  
out of five refineries and one Oronite facility are also in  
areas of high or extremely high water stress. Our assets do  
not share the same physical attributes and would not be 
impacted in the same way across our portfolio. In 2021, out  
of the total amount of fresh water withdrawn by Chevron,  
19% was extracted in areas classified by WRI as having high  
or extremely high water stress. 

our approach to water management 

Chevron continues to strengthen our water management 
practices, underscoring our recognition that using water 
responsibly is integral to The Chevron Way values and  
our environmental policy and practices. We seek to protect 
this natural resource through our risk-based management 
systems, processes and standards, including: 

•  Applying a risk-based approach to under stand, prioritize 
and manage water risks across the lifecycle of our assets 

•  In areas of high water stress, where water scarcity makes 
availability and access to this resource more challenging, 
utilizing water management concepts, such as efficient and 
responsible water use, reuse, recycling and conservation, 
and applying industry-standard practices to reduce water 
withdrawals for our operations, such as leveraging water  
of lower quality in lieu of fresh water and recycling and 
reusing wastewater and produced water 

•  Establishing metrics to measure the effectiveness of our 
water management practices, which enables us to report 
our performance to stakeholders on a meaningful and 
regular basis

•  Applying the Stakeholder Engagement and Issues  

Manage ment process to identify and manage social risks 
and potential social impacts to the community, including 
access to water resources where applicable

mid-continent business unit’s surface  
water use philosophy 

In 2021, the Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) water 
demand in the Permian Basin was satisfied with 99% brackish 
or recycled sources, which included utilizing no fresh water  
for hydraulic fracturing. This performance conformed to  
the goals of our Surface Water Use philosophy, which  
provides that, whenever possible, MCBU uses brackish water  
resources and recycled produced water instead of fresh  
water. In addition, MCBU participated in the New Mexico  
Produced Water Research Consortium to explore long-term 

percent of total fresh water 
withdrawn in stressed  
vs. non-stressed areas

19%
water- 
stressed 
areas

81%water non- 

stressed areas

chevron.com/sustainability
26

alternatives to beneficially reuse produced water beyond  
what the operation requires for business needs. The consor-
tium was formed in 2019 to help meet New Mexico’s water 
needs. In 2021, MCBU was actively involved in the consortium’s 
pilot program to identify potential produced-water treatment 
technologies that will guide the state’s future actions 
regarding beneficial reuse.

el segundo refinery increases use  
of reclaimed water

Strong water management practices and innovative use  
of digital technology have enabled our El Segundo Refinery  
to increase use of reclaimed water by 8% in three years –  
from 70% in 2018 to 78% in 2021. Through recycling efforts, 
the amount of fresh water that was saved is enough to meet 
the daily water needs of 80,000 to 90,000 people in the 
Los Angeles Basin. In 2020, the refinery began using Plant 
Information Vision, a digital monitoring dashboard that tracks 
daily water use in cooling tower systems and alerts operators 
of optimization opportunities. This helps increase the use of 
recycled water in operations, thereby decreasing the use of 
fresh water. Innovative technology also helped conserve water 
during a recent tank inspection. Normally, the tank would need 
to be taken out of service and fully drained of its 1.8 million 
gallons of recycled water. But by using a robotic system, the 
refinery was able to complete its inspection without draining 
the tanks, preventing the waste of a valuable resource while 
performing a task that is critical to maintaining the integrity  
of our equipment.

singapore refinery reduces water use

Over the past five years, our joint-venture Singapore Refining 
Company (SRC) has increased the recycling and reuse of its 
process water. In 2018, Singapore’s national water agency 
presented SRC with the agency’s inaugural Water Efficiency 
Award and Watermark Award in the Refining category for 
efforts in water recycling. SRC’s journey to reducing water use 
in refining operations began in 2016 with the completion of the 
Effluent Treatment Recovery Plant (ETRP), the first of its kind 
in Singapore. Using flat-sheet ceramic membranes and a two-
stage reverse osmosis process to remove suspended solids, 
oil, grease and other contaminants, the ETRP treats water that 
would otherwise be discharged to the sea. The ETRP increased 
SRC’s capability to recycle water by up to 50%. Government 
incentives and technological advances have driven SRC’s 
recycling initiatives, and greater advances in water recycling 
are ahead. 

Prakhar Prakash
Heavy Oil and Water  
Treatment Specialist,  
Chevron Technical Center,  
San Joaquin Valley Business Unit

employee spotlight

I am passionate about my work as a water treatment 
specialist. My concern for cleaner water began when  
I was growing up in a poor part of India where the  
water had the highest fluoride levels in the world.  
After getting my Ph.D. in environmental engineering  
from Lehigh University, water management was the 
logical field for me to pursue. 

I started at the Richmond Technology Center conducting 
research on water treatment, and over the years, I have 
published several technical papers and have developed 
water treatments that resulted in patents. When I joined 
the San Joaquin Valley business unit (SJVBU), I took my 
research experience to the field. It has been fascinating 
to work with the process engineers, trying new concepts 
in water technology to improve efficiency while main-
taining the reliability of our facilities. The SJVBU has 
been an ideal laboratory for this work. 

I’m proud of our collaboration with Veolia, which engi-
neered a produced-water desalination plant in San Ardo. 
The produced water is treated in a multistep process 
that contains a number of safeguards to verify that the 
water meets the permit requirements to recharge the 
local groundwater aquifer. In 2021, produced water met 
approximately 98% of the San Ardo Field’s water needs, 
and more than 1,000 acre-feet of treated water from the 
field were returned for groundwater aquifer recharge. 

As the son of two professors, I have carried on their 
tradition by teaching and mentoring engineers and water 
specialists all over the world. I’m especially inspired by 
my conversations with members of the next generation 
because they recognize, as I do, that water is universally 
important to us all. 

Through recycling efforts at  
our El Segundo Refinery,  
the amount of fresh water that 
was saved is enough to  
meet the daily water needs  
of 80,000 to 90,000 people in 
the Los Angeles Basin.

chevron.com/sustainability
27

chevron operations in water-stressed areas

low 
(< 10%)

low–medium 
(10–20%)

medium–high 
(20–40%)

high 
(40–80%)

extremely high 
(> 80%)

no data

arid and low  
water use

Source: WRI Aqueduct, accessed on February 22, 2022, at aqueduct.wri.org.

Operations and 
water stress level

Upstream, 0–40% 
(low to medium-high)

Upstream, 40–100% 
(high to extremely high) 

Downstream & Chemicals, 0–40% 
(low to medium-high)

Downstream & Chemicals, 40–100% 
(high to extremely high) 

WBCSD

In 2021, Chevron joined the Global Water Solutions 
Project of the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD). Through this project, we contribute 
to deliverables and tools developed by WBCSD’s water 
stewardship workstreams, which includes providing input 
to the development of the Wastewater Impact Assessment 
Tool. Participation enables us to assess how we might apply 
these water stewardship concepts and principles to our 
refinery operations. In addition, the tool can help assess 
the potential impacts of wastewater on biodiversity and on 
fresh water at both the facility and supplier level.

WRI’s definition of “water stress”: Baseline water stress measures the  
ratio of total water withdrawals to available renewable surface and ground-
water supplies. Water withdrawals include domestic, industrial, irrigation 
and livestock consumptive and nonconsumptive uses. Available renewable 
water supplies include the impact of upstream consumptive water users and 
large dams on downstream water availability. Higher values indicate more 
competition among users.

Water withdrawn data cover only operated assets.

Our Fuels & Lubricants business and the Technology, Projects and Services 
(TP&S) organization were not included in this analysis. Freshwater withdrawals 
for the Fuels & Lubricants business and TP&S are minimal (0.7% of the total) 
compared with the overall use in the corporation.

MCBU’s entire freshwater consumption is considered as being withdrawn  
from a high-stressed or extremely high-stressed arid area even though parts  
of MCBU are not in a high-water-stressed area.

Data are full-year 2021 for freshwater use.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/water.

chevron.com/sustainability
28

environment

biodiversity

we work to protect biodiversity through our operating  
practices and innovative solutions 

2021 
highlights

   Continued applying the 
mitigation hierarchy to 
evaluate opportunities for 
avoiding, reducing, restoring 
and offsetting potential 
impacts to biodiversity from 
our assets

   Invested in scientific  
research and development  
to improve data quality  
and identify new technologies 
to manage biodiversity 

   Collaborated with govern-
ments and conservation 
groups to implement 
innovative solutions that 
protect, promote and 
preserve biodiversity

“Biodiversity” is the variation in living things in different 
regions on Earth, including the ecosystems and ecological 
processes that support them. Chevron recognizes the impor-
tance of protecting and conserving a region’s biodiversity, 
and we have a long history of working in collaboration with 
communities, industry groups, regulators and conservation 
groups to identify and protect biodiversity in parts of the 
world where we operate. 

Given the variation in biodiversity and the complexities of 
our operations, our Environment Risk Management Process 
(ERMP), under our Operational Excellence Management 
System, is designed to operationalize a risk-based approach to 
identify, assess and manage potential risks to the environment 
across the lifecycle of our assets, including those related to 
biodiver sity. The ERMP screening step is designed to align with 
the Bio diver sity Indicators for Site-Based Impacts, a third-party 
methodology for aggregating biodiversity impact/benefit  
and performance data at the site level to provide indicators  

of biodiversity management performance at the corporate 
level. The ERMP also facilitates Chevron’s Protective by  
Design concept, which applies the mitigation hierarchy, 
to avoid, reduce, restore or offset potential impacts to the 
environment, including on biodiversity. This includes the 
restoration of habitats, ecosystems and ecosystem services. 
Though it is recommended that all new projects and activities 
apply the ERMP, business units have until year-end 2023  
for full implementation.

When evaluating whether to operate in protected or 
ecologically sensitive areas, we consider the characteristics  
of the area, the type and proximity of the proposed operation, 
our ability to meet or exceed regulatory requirements, and 
our capability to avoid or manage potential impacts by using 
appropriately protective operating practices. When we  
engage in asset retirement and divestitures, we prioritize  
and mitigate asset retirement risks through timely planning  
and execution. When possible, we mitigate risks for residual 

mitigation hierarchy implementation

preventive

remediative

avoidance

reduction

restoration

offsets

•  Avoidance

•  Site selection

•  Design

•  Scheduling

•  Physical controls

•  Operational controls

•  Abatement controls

no

Can potential  
impacts be managed  
adequately through 
remediative measures?

•  Reestablishment of  

habitat types

•  Reestablishment of  
biodiversity values

•  Reestablishment of  
ecosystem services

yes

•  Restoration offsets

•  Averted loss offsets

chevron.com/sustainability
29

site impact by implementing beneficial site reuse with the  
aim of restoring the sites and their biodiversity to function  
with the surrounding habitat.

innovative solutions to protect biodiversity 

We invest in scientific research and develop and implement 
new technologies to manage biodiversity on and surrounding 
our assets. An example is Chevron’s Mustang comprehensive 
drilling plan (CDP), which covers nearly 100 square miles 
in northern Colorado. It was the first CDP approved by the 
Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (COGCC). 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife designated some of the Mustang 
area as high-priority habitat for Eastern Plains native fish, 
nesting areas for hawks and bald eagles, and winter range-
land for pronghorn and mule deer. This designation led 
Chevron to develop the area in a way that avoided identified 
nesting sites and wetland areas. By reducing or avoiding 
development in floodplains and wetlands, we seek to maintain 
the ecosystem support that a floodplain and associated 
wetlands provide, including water flow regulation and flood 
attenuation, water quality improvement, and other ecological 
functions that enhance biodiversity.

Innovative solutions in  
the Mustang CDP helped
reduce noise, air emissions,  
the surface footprint  
and truck traffic while
avoiding sensitive habitat  
in northern Colorado.

To improve facility design, COGCC agreed to extend drilling 
permits from two years to six years to provide more time 
to build infrastructure ahead of development. Installed 
pipelines now enable the elimination of storage tanks and 
emission control flare stacks, which reduces the potential for 
spills and avoids more than 152 million miles of truck traffic 
associated with hauling oil and water. This also enabled the 
upgrade of sub-facilities and the installation of new high-line 
power to electrify engines used for drilling and production 
compression, which has reduced noise and nearly eliminated 
combustion-related air emissions.

The plan also includes the reclamation of 1,471 legacy vertical 
wells, tank batteries and associated roads in the development 
area, which is expected to reduce Chevron’s surface footprint 
by 95% when compared to past practices and will return 
thousands of acres to other uses such as agriculture, rangeland 
and wildlife habitat. Recognizing the success of the Mustang 
CDP, in March 2020, COGCC approved a second 40,000-acre 
comprehensive plan, the Wells Ranch CDP, that will utilize 
similar field design and facility innovation. Chevron’s approach 
has become a model for development in Colorado.

152 
million miles

Installed pipelines now enable the  
elimination of storage tanks and emission  
control flare stacks, which reduces  
the potential for spills and avoids more  
than 152 million miles of truck traffic  
associated with hauling oil and water.

Chevron Thailand worked to evaluate alternatives for 
retiring offshore platform jackets, revealing the potential 
environmental and social value of transforming the platform 
jackets into an artificial reef rather than removing them.  
To accomplish this, after removing the production equip ment, 
seven jackets were lifted from their offshore location and 
laid on the seafloor near the shore, forming a reef more than 
1,600 feet long. Creation of the artificial reefs enabled Chevron 
not only to reduce asset retirement costs, but also to provide 
habitat for marine life and recreational diving opportunities,  
benefiting local fishers and communities and enabling scientists  
to further study artificial reef science and the value of such 
infrastructure in the Gulf of Thailand.

Chevron is working with Chulalongkorn University in Thailand 
and Curtin University in Australia to monitor the artificial 
reef over a three-year period, examining fish, benthic 
communities, sediment, plankton, and a range of water 
quality aspects and overall ecosystem value. In collaboration 
with the Scottish Association of Marine Science, we piloted 
a new technology in 2021, Structure from Motion 3D Photo-
grammetry, to collect and analyze video images from the 
artificial reef. The technology integrated the video images 
into geospatial software to create a 3D computer model  
that was analyzed to quantify 3D ecological characteristics  
of marine growth on the reef site.

INSITE

Chevron, as a member of the INfluence of Structures In  
The Ecosystem (INSITE) program, has contributed  
to building a legacy of scientific investigation into the 
potential influence of marine structures on the ecosystem. 
INSITE is a public/private partnership with the U.K. govern -
ment, academia and industry that leads research projects  
and a Ph.D. scholarship program. The objective is to 
provide stakeholders with independent science-based 
studies to better understand the influence of man-made 
structures on the ecosystem of the North Sea. 

chevron.com/sustainability
30

Through our membership in the United Nations World 
Conservation Monitoring Centre Proteus Partnership, Chevron 
contributes to the development of the World Database on 
Protected Areas, which is now included as a key component of 
the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT). We utilize 
information from the IBAT to screen projects for proximity 
to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 
Protected Management Area Categories I–IV, the IUCN red 
list of threatened and endangered species, and the World 
Database of Key Biodiversity Areas. Access to this data in the 
early stages of project planning helps us utilize our Protective 
by Design concept and apply the mitigation hierarchy. 

Collaboration
We collaborate with governments, industry peers, academia, 
environmental NGOs and local communities to help us 
better characterize and manage biodiversity, identify areas 
to positively affect biodiversity, support development of 
credible and meaningful environmental solutions and industry 
standards, and shape relevant policy. For more than 15 years, 
Chevron has worked with Conservation Volunteers Australia, 
and in 2021, Chevron Australia announced a new initiative 
to support nature-based solutions to climate change. The 
initiative will result in 10 wetland locations across Australia 
receiving critical restoration. Wetlands can reduce the impacts 
of floods, offer notable ecosystem services and improve 
water quality. They are also home to a wide variety of native 
animals, fish and plants. The initiative will also contribute 
to innovative blue carbon research.

Lee Higgins
Senior HSE Specialist,  
Mid-Continent Business Unit

employee spotlight

For the past four years, my team and I have provided 
environmental support for the Mid-Continent business 
unit, working with multiple cross-functional development 
teams in Texas and New Mexico. For these projects, 
we’ve utilized Chevron’s Protective by Design concept to 
inform our decision making when developing new sites.

For example, in the East Texas Deadwood Development 
Area, we use field surveys and Geographic Information 
System data to plan flowlines and well pad locations that 
reduce potential impacts within the development area 
and to plan construction schedules to reduce vegetation 
removal during the nesting season that potentially could 
impact migratory birds. 

The Delaware Ranch Development Area in Texas 
straddles the Delaware River and is identified as poten- 
tial habitat for the protected Texas hornshell mussel.  
The project team selected a plan to separate operations 
on either side of the river that avoids impacting the 
mussel’s potential habitat. When planning development 
for the Dagger Lake Development Area in New Mexico, 
we strategically selected well pad locations that would 
avoid disturbing a designated habitat area for the lesser 
prairie chicken while still being able to access oil and 
natural gas utilizing horizontal drilling. We are also 
placing perching deterrents on taller facilities near the 
habitat area to ward off predators of the lesser 
prairie chicken. 

I feel fortunate to work for a company that is proactive 
and places a high value on incorporating environmental 
considerations into our construction and operations. 
Establishing Chevron’s approach up front enables further  
implementation of our Protective by Design concept.

15+ years

For more than 15 years,  
Chevron has worked with Conservation  
Volunteers Australia, and in 2021,  
Chevron Australia announced a new  
initiative to support nature- 
based solutions to climate change.

During construction of the Angola LNG (ALNG) facility, we 
became aware that Olive Ridley sea turtles had begun using 
the area as a nesting site. In response, ALNG engaged the 
Wildlife Conservation Society to implement a turtle conser-
vation program. A community education program was 
established within local communities about the importance  
of protecting sea turtles. Data were collected on local turtle 
populations, and risks to nesting turtles from construction 
activities were mitigated. In addition, nests were monitored  
in place or relocated to a protected hatchery. The conservation 
program started in 2006 with the support of local fishermen 
and community members, and by the end of 2020, more  
than 105,000 turtle hatchlings had been released from the 
hatchery. In 2021, ALNG signed a memorandum of under-
standing with Kitabanga Project that included a commitment 
to fund and monitor the ongoing conservation program.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/biodiversity.

chevron.com/sustainability
31

empowering 
people

We put people at the center of everything we do.

Photo: Laboratory employees assess product  
specifications so we can deliver quality, ever- 
cleaner fuels to customers. In this section, learn  
about our approach to creating prosperity.

social

diversity and inclusion

we foster an inclusive workplace that  
promotes diverse ideas and drives innovation

2021 
highlights

  Advanced our Human Capital 
Management strategy  
with additional investments  
in people and culture 

   Continued evolving  
our diversity and inclusion 
strategy by enhancing 
programs and resources

   Continued advancing  
our Racial Equity 
commitments 

We believe human  
ingenuity has the power to 
overcome obstacles, solve 
challenges and transform  
the future of energy. 

We invest in people and foster a culture of belonging that 
seeks to empower our employees to develop their full 
potential and drive innovation. Diversity and inclusion (D&I)  
at Chevron are enabled by a strong corporate culture, an  
empowered employee workforce, a focus on talent recruitment  
and development, and a commitment to racial equity.

strengthening our corporate culture 

The Chevron Way articulates our values, our beliefs and our 
behaviors. We believe a culture built on trust and inclusion 
empowers the workforce to deliver higher returns for our 
shareholders and advance a lower carbon world. We support 
employees in the pursuit of meaningful careers. We celebrate 
our differences, support work-life balance, and promote 
health, safety and personal well-being for everyone. We seek 
to strengthen our culture by offering a variety of training 

resources that enable employees to understand and recognize 
biases, promote a culture of beneficial feedback, encourage 
inclusive and empathetic leadership, and embolden teams to 
innovate and meet strategic objectives.

empowering employees to speak up

We know that culture serves as the bedrock of high-
performing organizations. A culture in which authenticity 
is valued and employees are empowered to speak up 
encourages diverse viewpoints, which can lead to better 
decision making and problem solving. For more than 30 years, 
the Global Office of Ombuds has helped employees find their 
voice by providing a safe, neutral, independent resource for 
voluntary, off-the-record confidential conversations pertaining 
to a myriad of topics. Over the past five years, a growing 
number of employees outside the United States have utilized 
the services of our Global Office of Ombuds, which is widely 
recognized in the oil and gas sector as the benchmark for 
Ombuds programs. In 2021, the office responded proactively 
to worker concerns that grew out of the pandemic by hosting a 
three-part webinar series titled “Courageous Conversations.” 
The series aimed to continue building a cul ture of open 
feedback based on trust, psychological safety and conflict 
resolution skills.

culture: cultivate and foster an 
environment that works for  
all people in all Chevron locations

employee empowerment: create  
two-way dialogue and empower  
the workforce to address work-related 
barriers and conflict

talent: recruit, develop and retain a  
diverse workforce

equity: create programs, tools and 
resources that minimize headwinds and 
create opportunities

we deliver programs  
and resources that  
drive a culture of 
belonging and seek  
to develop the potential 
of our workforce

D&I at
chevron

chevron.com/sustainability
33

52 years
of our employee 
assistance program

Now in its 52nd year, the Employee  
Assistance Program (EAP) is a 
confidential consulting service, consisting of  
licensed mental health professionals  
who can help workers resolve a broad range  
of personal, family and work-related  
concerns and problems. The EAP also  
manages a hotline that operates 365 days a  
year and 24 hours a day to address  
issues affecting employees’ mental health.

In addition to our Global Office of Ombuds, Chevron regularly 
conducts surveys to assess the health of the company’s 
culture. Recent surveys indicate high employee engagement, 
which is an indicator of employee well-being and commitment  
to the company’s values, strategies and purpose. In 2021, the 
company increased survey frequency to better understand 
employee sentiment throughout the year, including focused 
efforts to gain insights into employee well-being.

building a diverse talent pipeline

Our approach to attracting, developing and retaining a 
diverse workforce of high-performing talent is anchored in 
a long-term employment model that fosters personal growth 
and engagement. Chevron’s philosophy is to offer compelling 
career opportunities and a competitive total compensation 
and benefits package linking compen sation to individual 
and enterprise performance. Chevron maintains strong 
partnerships with universities and diversity associations to 
develop and attract new as well as experienced talent. In 
addition, we have  coordinated efforts to recruit veterans, 
which are further supported by our Veterans Employee 
Network. We also look for creative, multidisciplinary 
innovators and leaders to introduce transformative ideas, 
envision new ways of working and help us grow our lower 
carbon businesses.

Ryan Wilson
Earth Scientist,  
Clastic and Seismic Stratigraphy

employee spotlight

After receiving my Ph.D. in Earth Sciences, I joined 
Chevron because the culture aligned with my long- 
term aspirations to continue learning and growing as a 
person. For example, Chevron has a long history of  
using innova tion and advanced technologies to unlock  
a deeper understanding of our assets. Today, we use  
data analytics, machine learning algorithms and artificial  
intelligence to improve our understanding of a range  
of topics in our industry, from stratigraphy to renewables  
and carbon capture. To advance my own digital compe-
tency, Chevron has provided access to digital training 
and experiential learning resources, opportunities to 
receive mentorship from subject matter experts, and 
time for me to work on my own small research projects. 

Chevron’s culture also values diversity, which has helped 
me embrace my own cultural heritage. As president 
of the Native American Employee Network, I’m able 
to focus on my Indigenous culture and its link with 
Chevron’s One Team approach, which values diverse 
perspectives and recognizes that each person has a 
unique skill set. 

Chevron’s Indigenous people-focused networks have 
merged into one unified global network that allows  
our former regional Indigenous networks to address 
common issues impacting Indigenous communities, 
such as recon ciliation efforts to strengthen relationships 
between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people. I often 
think about the fact that more than a third of the world’s 
remain ing land belongs to Indigenous people. As Chevron  
continues to advance a lower carbon future and consider 
nature-based solutions, Chevron’s relationship with 
Indigenous communities will continue to grow. 

Our approach to attracting, 
developing and retaining  
a diverse workforce  
of high-performing talent  
is anchored in a long- 
term employment model  
that fosters personal  
growth and engagement.

chevron.com/sustainability
34

API DEI initiative

Chevron, in collaboration with the American Petroleum 
Institute’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion working group,  
is leading a workstream with Opportunity@Work, to  
recruit talented individuals from less traditional educational 
backgrounds and promote diversity. This pilot is ongoing  
in the San Francisco Bay Area and is set to launch in  
Houston in 2022.

Our intern program is critical to building Chevron’s early-
career talent pipeline. Even as we worked remotely during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, we continued our internship program 
virtually the past two summers, minimizing gaps in the talent 
pipeline, which resulted in a 91% full-time offer acceptance 
rate in 2021.

Chevron’s Welcome Back Program was created to hire, 
support and develop talented people who left the workforce 
for personal or family reasons and desire to return. Individuals 
complete a 12- to 16-week “returnship” focused on training, 
coaching and acclimation. Chevron is now considering a 
broader pool of candidates, flexible work options and a rolling 
cohort model so that we may hire into the program at any  
time during the year.

Building on neurodiversity programming introduced in 
2020 and with support from Chevron’s ENABLED Employee 
Network, our retail station business continued a neurodiversity 
employment program at 24 company-owned and -operated 
service stations in Central and Southern California. The hiring 
of neurodiverse individuals exemplifies ENABLED’s goals 
of expanding opportunities to people with disabilities and 
reinforces Chevron’s commitment to employee diversity  
and inclusion.

developing talent 

We have a portfolio of learning and development programs 
designed to help people achieve their full potential by building 
leadership capabilities at all levels and by ensuring that 
the company’s workforce has the technical and operating 
capabilities to produce energy safely, reliably and efficiently. 

We invest in digital learning experiences to empower our 
employees to develop, maintain and enhance critical skills 
from any location. We’re also helping employees expand their 
horizons and plan for future positions with Gigs Marketplace. 
This digital platform allows employees to apply for short-term 
project opportunities across the organization to grow their 
capabilities beyond their current roles. 

We believe that leadership is not only about formally super-
vising a team or group but also about informally influencing 
peers and other colleagues. With that perspective, we believe 
that everyone in our organization has the potential to lead.  
We have multiple formal and informal leadership development 
programs. Your Leadership Our Future is our refreshed suite  
of leadership development programs with learning paths for 
all levels of employees, designed to help individuals discover 
the mindsets and capabilities that are most impactful for 
leading others in any environment. 

During 2021, we launched two formal sponsorship programs 
to build advocacy relationships between leaders and 
employees with the aspiration of developing a leadership 
pipeline that reflects the overall diversity of our workforce.  
We plan to leverage the learnings from these pilots to  
increase sponsorship activity over time.

The Chevron Hispanic/Latinx  
Leadership Development 
Program provided participants 
with an oppor tunity to discuss 
topics that may impact  
their workplace experience,  
from how their heritage  
can shape their workplace  
values and motivations to 
addressing potential barriers. 

The Chevron Hispanic/Latinx Leadership Program, designed  
in partnership with Southern Methodist University, provided 
the inaugural cohort of 25 participants with an opportunity  
to discuss a range of topics, from how their heritage can  
shape their workplace values and motivations to how to 
address potential barriers to achieving career advancement. 
We have also continued our Asian American Leadership 
Development Program with a new partnership through 
INSEAD Business School, and our development of Black 

chevron.com/sustainability
35

we’re addressing racial equity through …

education

black talent  
and leadership  
development

job creation

community  
and small business 
partnerships

employees through our partnership with the Executive 
Leadership Council. These programs are intended to further 
enhance participants’ leadership and business skills and  
foster networking opportunities.

working toward racial equity

In 2020, Chevron made a $15 million pledge to support the 
Black community in the United States to address barriers  
to equity. A year later, we continue to address racial barriers  
through education, job creation, talent and leadership devel-
op ment, and community and small business partnerships. 

Since establishing our Racial Equity strategy, we have 
progressed the following initiatives:

•  Supporting the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF), 
which named Chevron Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer Pierre Breber to its board of directors. Our spon-
sorship contributes to a TMCF scholarship program and 
creation of the Chevron Energy Innovation Summit, 
which features Chevron executives as speakers and other 
employees as judges in business case study competitions. 

•  Pledging $150,000 over three years to the East Oakland 
Youth Development Center (EOYDC) and launching a 
Chevron Black Employee Network–led career-awareness 
program with EOYDC high school and college students.  
In addition, the Chevron EOYDC Special Scholarship 
Program provides funding to EOYDC graduates who need 
assistance with overcoming financial hardships resulting 
from the COVID-19 pandemic. 

•  Expanding our Chevron Leadership Academy by  

establishing an academy at Prairie View A&M University.  
The program promotes leadership skills in students  
in the business, engineering and science disciplines 
and helps increase our access to diverse talent that can 
contribute to the company’s future growth.

•  Establishing a Supplier Diversity Governance Board that 
provides strategic direction and oversight of Chevron’s 
supplier diversity strategy across Chevron’s U.S.-based 
business units. In addition, Chevron collaborates with  
major suppliers on an ongoing basis to influence their 
adoption of our commitment to supply chain inclusion.  
A recent win includes updating Chevron’s procurement 
policies on our Amazon purchasing platform, which, by 
the end of 2021, resulted in a fivefold increase in purchases 
with small and diverse sellers through this platform vs. 
the historical average. This commitment to a diverse and 
inclusive supply chain is founded on the belief that the use  
of inclusive practices in the procurement of goods and 
services creates a business advantage for our company, 
supports local economies and creates prosperity in regions 
where we operate.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/diversityandinclusion.

chevron.com/sustainability
36

social

human rights

respect for human rights is rooted in our values 
 and applies wherever we do business

2021 
highlights

   Developed Environmental 
Justice Principles

   Updated our Global Security 
function’s methodology for 
identifying operations in 
conflict-affected and other 
high-risk areas 

   Updated our human rights 
computer-based training 
module

Chevron believes  
that we have a responsibility  
to respect human rights  
and that we can play a positive 
role in the communities  
where we operate. 

In 2021, we continued to advance our approach to respecting 
human rights by conducting assessments of potential im pacts, 
identifying mitigations and engaging with appro priate 
exter nal stakeholders. We also continued to implement our 
Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management (SEIM) 
process, through which we operationalize respect for human 
rights. In 2021, more than 19 business units updated their risk 
profiles. The types of risks captured through this process 
vary considerably and can include social and human rights 
impacts. Once a Chevron business unit identifies a risk, it 
establishes management plans to address the risk and prevent 
or mitigate potential impacts. In addition, business units are 
required to maintain a grievance mechanism as appropriate. In 
2021, six business units underwent reviews of their grievance 
mechanisms to assess their efficacy and identify opportunities 
for improvement. Also in 2021, to educate our workforce, we 
provided human rights training to more than 5,400 employees 
and contractors – including appropriate personnel who joined 
Chevron as part of the Noble Energy acquisition – using our 
updated human rights computer-based training module. 

doing business in conflict-affected and  
other high-risk areas

In 2021, Chevron’s Global Security function updated the 
method ology for identifying operations that are in conflict-
affected and other high-risk areas, leveraging a tool created  
by the consultancy BSR, as well as geospatial data from 
risk intelligence company Verisk Maplecroft. In areas that 
are conflict-affected, an enhanced review of potential 
security-related human rights risks takes place as part of the 
security risk assessment program. The enhanced evaluation 
complements the existing security management review,  

chevron.com/sustainability
37

5,400+
employees

Provided human rights training to more  
than 5,400 employees and contractors 

conducted  
6 reviews

Conducted six reviews of business unit  
grievance mechanisms 

19 risk profiles

Completed 19 risk profiles as  
part of the Stakeholder Engagement  
and Issues Management Process

In Bangladesh, a team  
has assessed, reviewed and  
addressed more than  
50 grievances since 2016.

Sofía Nuñez
Global Labor Relations Counselor

employee spotlight

Before I joined Chevron, I worked with a law firm  
in Buenos Aires that specialized in international labor 
relations, often assisting clients from abroad in their 
collective bargaining relationships. My current role is  
to provide labor relations support to business units  
on three continents. It’s a fascinating and challenging  
job because labor relations issues vary from country  
to country. 

I’m guided by Chevron’s commitment to respect the 
right to freedom of association and collective bargain-
ing, as set out in the International Labour Organization 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights  
at Work. These rights fall under the employee focus  
area of Chevron’s Human Rights Policy and align  
with The Chevron Way. As such, the Labor Affairs  
Team is a key partner, supporting business units in 
implementing our Human Rights Policy. 

I feel especially proud of the support and subject  
matter expertise my team provided one of our  
business units as they negotiated their first collective 
bargaining agreement. Similarly, we have worked  
with our colleagues in Africa to provide data-driven 
support for their anticipated negotiation of a renewed 
labor agreement next year.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, understanding the 
specific labor issues on the ground has been challenging, 
since normally I would travel to our business units and 
talk to employees. However, I’ve been able to overcome 
this difficulty by working with labor relations specialists 
to build trust and mutual understanding.

which has human rights as one of its nine focus areas, and 
assesses the security management efforts within a business 
unit. As part of our commitment to continual improvement, 
Chevron will seek to identify additional opportunities to 
advance respect for human rights in conflict-affected and 
other high-risk areas across the focus areas of our Human 
Rights Policy.

addressing grievances in bangladesh

Bangladesh began managing community grievances when 
onshore seismic activities were taking place under Chevron 
Bangladesh Blocks Thirteen and Fourteen, Ltd. The process 
was subsequently expanded for use with communities 
surrounding additional operational areas and over the years 
has been enhanced based on continuous learning, a key 
attribute of rights-respecting mechanisms. For example, the 
team has established a cross-functional grievance resolution 
committee, comprising internal stakeholders across multiple 
areas, including operations, health and safety, security, and 
community engagement. This team has assessed, reviewed 
and addressed more than 50 grievances since their creation in 
2016. The types of grievances lodged have included impacts 
of security lighting and water discharge, among others. For 
example, when the grievance related to security lighting was 
introduced, a review revealed that the intensity of the security 
lighting may have been one of the contributing hindrances to 
the ability for some crops located very close to the fence 
to complete the process of photosynthesis. To contribute to 
remediation, the angle of the lighting was changed and the 
intensity of the lighting reduced. 

respecting human rights in equatorial guinea

Chevron is committed to respecting human rights in the 
communities where we operate. Since 2018, the Equatorial 
Guinea business unit has supported Ven Amiga (Spanish 
for “Come Friend”), an anti-trafficking initiative run by the 
nonprofit organization Por la Igualdad y por los Derechos 
Humanos de la Mujer en África (IDHMA). The program is 
conducting a national prevention and awareness campaign, 
mobilizing communities at all levels to prevent human 
trafficking. It focuses on mitigating the risks to vulnerable 
groups such as women and children and raising awareness of 
the risks of labor exploitation. The target audience includes 
educators, students, community leaders and the public.  
As the only NGO working on anti-trafficking measures in 
the country, IDHMA is working with the government of 
Equatorial Guinea to advocate for the enforcement of laws 
and prevention of human trafficking. Supported by the 
U.S. Embassy and working across sectors, it is also utilizing 
innovative methods to educate, inform and galvanize 
support. Chevron is proud to support IDHMA’s work with the 
government of Equatorial Guinea, the U.S. Embassy and  
other entities as a part of this cross-sector collaboration.

chevron.com/sustainability
38

chevron’s approach to environmental justice 

Chevron’s approach to environmental justice  
is rooted in our Chevron Way values and  
our commitment to human rights, equity,  
and diversity and inclusion.

It is our policy that no one should ever be 
subject to discrimination on the basis of race, 
religion, color, national origin, age, sex, gender 
identity, gender expression, genetic information, 
disability, veteran status, political preference, 
sexual orientation, membership or non-
membership in any lawful organization, or any 
other status prohibited by laws or regulations.

Chevron believes in the fair treatment and 
meaning ful involvement of all people, regardless 
of race, color, national origin or income, with 
respect to the development, implementation 
and enforcement of environmental laws, 
regulations and policies. We implement our 
values through our social and environmental 
policies and practices. 

Chevron acknowledges and understands 
that for many communities and stakeholders, 
environmental justice is a long-standing 
concern. We recognize that each community is 
unique. We work together with our community 
stakeholders to understand their needs and 
priorities as we: 

•  Avoid or mitigate the potentially adverse 

impacts of our operations 

•  Live our commitments to environmental, 

health and social performance 

•  Identify and develop meaningful 

opportunities to support the community

•  Contribute to communities’ environmental,  

economic and social well-being

We support transparent and well-designed 
government policies that enable communities 
and businesses to advance the values of  
fair treatment and meaningful involvement.

API’s environmental  
justice principles

Through our membership in the American Petroleum 
Institute’s (API’s) Environmental Justice Coordination 
Team, Chevron contributed insights into the development 
of API’s environmental justice position and principles. 
API’s principles reflect the organization’s long-standing 
commitment to advancing industry standards for 
community engagement and improving environmental 
performance, and they complement Chevron’s Environ-
mental Justice Principles. Going forward, Chevron expects 
to continue serving on the working team to support  
API’s analysis of proposed administrative and legislative 
actions at federal and state agencies relating to 
environmental justice.

establishing environmental justice principles 

In 2021, Chevron developed a set of Environmental Justice 
Principles. These principles are designed to support our 
engagements with stakeholders as well as our policy efforts. 
They reflect Chevron’s beliefs and are aligned with policies 
and processes such as the SEIM process and the Environment 
Risk Management Process. This work is complemented by our 
efforts to advance racial equity, respect human rights, and 
protect people and the environment. 

To learn more, visit chevron.com/humanrights.

chevron.com/sustainability
39

environment

social

governance

richmond, california, US

building trust and integrity

Chevron and the city of Richmond share a history that 
stretches back more than a century. Established in 1902,  
our refinery in Richmond was Chevron’s first major refinery  
and creates products that fuel progress in Richmond and 
around the world. Chevron is committed to being good 
neighbors and providing affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner 
energy. The refinery supplies approximately 60% of the jet 
fuel for major Bay Area airports, approximately 20% of the 
gasoline in Northern California and 100% of the paraffinic 
base oils on the West Coast. We also host the campus of the 
Richmond Technology Center, a world-class scientific research 
facility that supports Chevron’s worldwide operations and 
has developed some of the world’s most significant energy 
innovations. We do all of this with a focus on improving 
our environmental performance. In 2021, Chevron released 
an update to the Stakeholder Engagement and Issues 
Management (SEIM) process. Our goal is to improve how  

we manage environment, social and community health  
risks across our business and the lifecycle of our assets.  
At the Richmond Refinery we can see these aligned  
processes in action. 

respecting communities 

Chevron aims to be a leader in health, safety and envi ron-
mental performance. The protection of people, assets, 
communities and the environment is our highest priority.  
We have a long-standing commitment to reduce criteria air  
pollutant emissions in Richmond. The refinery has funded  
an independently operated community air monitoring 
program since 2013 and we have reduced particulate matter 
emissions refinery-wide by 30% since 2018. Our community 
outreach includes ways to promote two-way dialogue,  
provide access to quality, reliable data, and support the  
health and safety of our community. Air monitoring is  
one of the tools used to understand neighborhood criteria  
air emissions and increase transparency. 

1.69 billion

1.69 billion gallons of  
water demand was met  
with recycled water,  
which is 46% of total need.

green 
hydrogen

Chevron, along with three 
other entities, invested  
in Series A funding totaling  
$20 million in Raven SR.  
Raven SR plans to build 
mod  u lar waste-to-green 
hydrogen production units 
and renewable synthetic fuel 
facilities initially in California 
and then worldwide.

20+

In partnership with the 
community and city of 
Richmond, more than 20 
chemical compounds are 
monitored by state-of-
the-art systems along the 
refinery fence line and 
in three neighborhood 
stations, with real-time data 
available 24 hours a day at 
richmondairmonitoring.org.

chevron.com/sustainability
40

 
investing in what matters

accelerating progress on hydrogen

The 3,000 employees and contractors who serve our 
Richmond operations make us the city’s largest employer. 
Among those employees are generations of families who 
have seen their children, cousins, aunts and uncles, and even 
some grandchildren enjoy careers at Chevron Richmond. 
The refinery has a variety of programs that build our talent 
pipeline and grow leadership capabilities at all levels to ensure 
the company’s workforce has the technical and operating 
capabilities to produce energy safely and reliably. One in 
particular, the Regional Occupational Program (ROP), is a  
free job readiness course offered through a partnership with 
the Richmond Refinery and the Contra Costa County Office  
of Education that helps prepare community members for jobs 
in the petrochemical and related industries. Students from  
all walks of life learn the basic pro cesses and equipment 
common to the industry and have an opportunity to make 
connections with local employers. Since 2015, Chevron 
Richmond has directly hired more than 115 ROP graduates  
as either maintenance mechanics or process plant operators, 
and other program graduates have gone on to work for  
other facilities or companies across the energy industry.

Our strong distribution network, coupled with excess capacity 
in a new hydrogen unit, is expected to put Richmond in an 
advantaged position to grow a profitable hydrogen business. 
We plan to use Richmond’s volumes, combined with existing 
and future strategic partnerships, as the foundation to support 
demand growth in the heavy-duty transportation, industrial 
and power sectors. In addition, we recently initiated two green 
hydrogen pilot projects – one utilizing a gasified waste stream 
and another a solar-powered electrolyzer.

Richmond is just one example of how we seek to continue 
improving our environmental performance, enhancing 
community partnerships and enabling significant economic 
impact development. We have learned through decades of 
experience that our success is directly tied to the progress and 
prosperity of the people we work with and the communities 
where we operate.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/richmond. 

richmond 
BUILD

Chevron supports  
RichmondBUILD, an award-
wining career-training 
program that is leading the 
efforts to close the skills gap 
in the Richmond community 
between local residents and 
the high-paying, technical 
jobs found in the construction 
industry in disciplines such 
as carpentry and solar energy. 

10.5 MW

Chevron is providing access to  
49 acres of refinery land for 
the Marin Clean Energy Solar 
One project, which is made 
possible in part by Deep Green  
100% renewable energy cus-
to mers who support local 
renewable development. The 
Solar One project generates 
10.5 megawatts of renewable 
energy annually, enough  
to power 3,900 U.S. homes. 

$1B

As of 2021, our operations 
have contributed more  
than $1 billion to the local 
economy by purchasing 
supplies and services from 
local businesses and paying 
local taxes since 2015. 

2,200

Richmond Promise is a 
community-wide college 
success initiative with  
$35 million in seed funding 
from Chevron Richmond.  
From 2016 to 2021, there were 
2,200 Richmond Promise 
Scholars, and 70% were first-
generation college students. 

chevron.com/sustainability
41

social

creating prosperity

we strive to advance progress and  
strengthen communities where we work and live 

At Chevron, we work to make the world a better place. Our partnerships and investments  
in health, education and economic development advance progress and strengthen communities. 
We strive to empower people around the world to improve their lives, achieve their aspirations  
and meet their full potential.

education

Investing in the future
We believe education is critical to achieving social equality  
and enabling human progress. In 2021, we collaborated 
with the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) and 
Techbridge Girls, to launch the first Summer Engineering 
Experience for Kids program aimed to introduce middle-
school girls of color to science, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) careers. Almost 300 students explored robotics, 
drones and coding through hands-on activities, guided by 
Chevron volunteers and NSBE collegiate mentors.

Supporting STEM education 
Chevron is helping promote effective STEM education in 
Southeast Asia through three grants to the Southeast Asian 
Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO) Regional 
Centre for STEM Education. The grants aim to improve STEM 
education in both the formal and the informal education 
sectors across Thailand and the rest of Southeast Asia  
through developing evidence-based policy, building capacity 
of researchers and educators, and piloting innovations  
such as career academies that can create better pathways 
from high school to further education and the workplace.  

PSP 

Chevron is a founding member of the Permian Strategic 
Partnership (PSP), a coalition of energy companies 
that works with regional communities to improve local 
education, housing, health care, transportation and work-
force development. From 2019 through 2021, Chevron 
donated $4.2 million to PSP, which, despite challenging 
conditions resulting from COVID-19, continues to help  
meet the area’s medical and educational needs. 

This effort is helping fund the implementation of Phase 2 of 
the $35 million Chevron Enjoy Science Project in Thailand,  
a seven-year program that Chevron has supported since 2015. 
Our contribution to SEAMEO’s Centre for STEM Education  
will help bring together international experts from the public 
and private sector through research, policy roundtables  
and workshops. 

health

Serving rural and remote communities 
The Chevron/Adventist Health Mobile Clinic provides easier 
access to health care for underserved rural and remote 
commu ni ties in Kern County, California. Chevron contributed 
funds toward the construction of the clinic, which in 2021 
assisted in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines in the 
county’s rural areas, where lack of health insurance can 
impede well-being. 

Seeking to eradicate malaria
In Equatorial Guinea, we support local government and industry 
partners in the Bioko Island Malaria Elimination Project 
(BIMEP) with the aim of eradicating malaria from the island. 
Since 2004, BIMEP’s medical initiatives have contributed to  
a 55% reduction in malaria parasites among children aged  
2 to 14 and a 63% reduction in the mortality rate among 
children under 5 years old, as reported by the implementing 
partner, Medical Care Development International. 

Serving the needs of vulnerable community members 
For more than 30 years, PRC has served the needs of  
San Francisco’s most vulnerable people and communities, 
including those struggling with substance abuse, HIV/ 
AIDS and behavioral health challenges. In 2021, Chevron  
contributed funds to support PRC programs involving  
workforce development, behavioral health initiatives, and  
diversity and prosperity health issues. PRC was formed 
through the merger of the Positive Resource Center, Baker 
Places and the AIDS Emergency Fund. Chevron’s support  
for PRC demonstrates our role in helping address the health 
risks and systematic inequities that can potentially have a 
major impact on the communities where we operate.

chevron.com/sustainability
42

Leila Aitmukhanova
Social Investment Advisor,  
Eurasia Business Unit

employee spotlight

I love my work as a social investment advisor, especially 
when I’m part of a team working to solve challenges 
confronting our organization and the communities we 
operate in. 

I was especially impressed by the passion and commit ment 
of the Chevron and Tengizchevroil (TCO) people who 
came together to mobilize our response to COVID-19 in 
Kazakhstan. My primary role was to ensure that critical 
supplies like medicine and equipment were delivered 
quickly and efficiently to the company in charge of 
distributing the supplies to hospitals and clinics around 
the country. 

Our first shipment of emergency supplies arrived in late 
2020 at the Almaty Airport in the middle of the night. 
Our team quickly got up to speed on the airport’s new 
COVID-19 procedures and developed an understanding 
of how to manage the logistics for medical supplies.  
We spent hours making sure that the delivery of medi-
cation arrived in full and was properly documented. 

Throughout 2021, a team worked with the Kazakhstan 
Ministry of Healthcare and our nonprofit partner MAP 
Inter national to deliver more than 14 million units of criti-
cal medicines, 20 million protective personal equipment 
items, 1.5 million single-use syringes and six CT scanners.

TCO’s team continues to work closely with government 
authorities in the Atyrau region to keep the workforce 
safe and make medical resources available. As of Decem-
ber 2021, more than 97% – or 95,000 individuals – in the 
TCO workforce had been fully vaccinated. 

I am proud of how we have all mobilized and worked in 
unison to support my country’s pandemic response.

U.S. chevron humankind 2021
$32M+

contributed to U.S. nonprofits through a combination of  
employee and retiree giving and company matching funds

73,415

volunteer hours were logged in the United States

1,160

charitable organizations in the United States  
benefited from volunteer time

economic growth

Empowering social entrepreneurs 
The Miller Center for Social Entrepreneurship works with 
social enterprises that are focused on solutions that most 
directly address the nexus between environmental disasters 
and vulnerability among the world’s poor. In 2021, Chevron 
supported the center’s Asia-Pacific climate resilience 
accelerator, a six-month-long mentoring program that 
provides social entrepreneurs with practical tools, proven 
curriculum, online workshops and best practices based on 
the Miller Center’s experience helping social enterprises 
prepare for investment. 

Supporting Indigenous-owned businesses 
In 2021, Chevron Canada established the Local and Indigenous 
Partnership Strategy Framework that aims to increase the 
representation of Indigenous people in our supply chain 
through additional opportunities for our business partners 
and suppliers and a commitment to developing relationships 
with Indigenous-owned businesses.

communities and the environment

Protecting the mangrove ecosystem 
Since 2018, Chevron and a consortium of industry partners 
have supported the Mangrove Ecosystem Restoration Alliance 
(MERA) program at the Muara Angke Wildlife Reserve in 
Jakarta, Indonesia. The five-year program, sponsored by 
The Nature Conservancy and its local Indonesian affiliate, 
Yayasan Konservasi Alam Nusantara, is a collaboration with 
the Ministry of Environment and Forestry’s Jakarta Natural 
Resources Conservation Center. Now at its halfway mark, the 
MERA program is about to open Jakarta’s first-ever center 
for mangrove education to help build public awareness about 
mangrove ecosystem conservation. 

Providing disaster relief
Chevron has a history of providing humanitarian aid to the 
communities where we operate when they are devastated by 
natural disasters. In 2021, the company donated $3 million 
to organizations focused on supporting U.S. Gulf Coast 
communities affected by Hurricane Ida. The funds not only 
provided immediate relief, but also helped communities 
rebuild in the aftermath of the hurricane. In early 2022, 
Chevron donated $5 million to the World Food Programme 
and the Red Cross to support their efforts to respond to the 
ongoing humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. As part of our Chevron 
Humankind program, the company can match qualifying 
donations made by employees and retirees and make financial 
contributions to organizations where employees volunteer.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/
social#creatingprosperity.

chevron.com/sustainability
43

social

contributing to the UN SDGs

Chevron is proud to contribute to the achievement of the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  
We have a long history of investment in health, education and 
economic development with the goal of creating measurable 
and enduring value. Through our membership in Ipieca, we 
worked with the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development on the creation of an SDG Roadmap for the 
oil and gas sector (“Roadmap”). The Roadmap identifies 
how Ipieca, as an industry associ ation, and individual oil and 
gas companies working within the sector, can work toward 
a lower-emissions future while contributing to a healthier 

and more prosperous world aligned with the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. This will allow for a uniform 
approach to demonstrating alignment to relevant SDGs for  
the oil and gas companies. The oil and gas sector has the 
potential to advance all 17 goals either directly or indirectly 
and the Roadmap identifies 10 SDGs as priority areas where 
the sector has the most influence or ability to respond to 
societal needs.

Below are select examples of Chevron’s contribution  
to the Roadmap, as of 2021.

chevron’s ipieca roadmap

ipieca options for oil and gas companies

chevron’s contributions

SDGs

action

highlights from 2021

what we plan to do next

impact 
opportunity

policy and 
partnerships

Report approach to 
managing climate-related 
risks including, discussion 
on risk and opportunities 
related to the energy 
transition.

innovation

Scale innovative and venture 
business models to help 
customers reduce emissions.

operations

e
t
a
m

i
l
c

operations

Adopt methane intensity 
reduction targets consistent 
with best available 
methodology. Consider 
deploying new technologies 
for better detection and 
quantification of methane.

Strengthen operational 
GHG emissions reduction 
initiatives by identifying 
emissions hotspots, 
implementing resource 
efficiency best practices, 
encouraging innovation and 
disclosing progress.

•   Published 4th report aligned with  
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures

•  Building on our 2020 Climate  
Lobby ing Report, created  
an updated lobbying and trade 
association webpage 

•   Established Chevron New Energies 
to accelerate progress in renewable 
fuels; hydrogen; carbon capture, 
utilization and storage; and offsets

•  Awarded U.S. patent to produce 
biofuels at scale using our Fluid 
Catalytic Converter technology

•  Launched a global methane 

detection campaign to expand 
detection capabilities

•  Since 2016, reduced Upstream 

methane intensity by more than 
50%, inclusive of methane from our 
LNG operations

•  Through the Oil and Gas Climate 

Initiative, committed to a collective 
methane-intensity target of well 
below 0.20% as a share of market 
gas by 2025

•  Advanced 36 marginal abatement 
cost curve (MACC) projects to 
reduce carbon intensity of our own 
operations

•  Completed and commissioned five 

MACC projects

•  Continue to action our commitment 
to compliance, transparency and 
accountability through our lobbying 
activities and climate-related 
reporting

•  Spend planned $8 billion in lower 

carbon investments by 2028

•  Continue executing projects to 
achieve 2028 methane target of 
2 kilograms CO2-equivalent per 
barrel, which is a more than 50% 
reduction from our 2016 baseline

•  Continue progress to achieve  

zero routine flaring by 2030 and  
3 kg CO2e/boe for overall flaring

•  Spend approximately $2 billion  
on similar projects through 2028 

•  Achieve expectation to deliver 
~4 million tonnes of emissions 
reductions per year by 2028

Ipieca roadmap continues on page 45

SDGs:

3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.
7  Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern  

energy for all. 

12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.
13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
14  Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine  

8  Promote sustained, inclusive and sustain  able economic growth,  

resources for sustainable development.

full and productive employment and decent work for all.

9  Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 

industrialization and foster innovation.

15  Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial eco-
systems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification,  
and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.

chevron.com/sustainability
44

chevron’s ipieca roadmap, continued

ipieca options for oil and gas companies

chevron’s contributions

impact 
opportunity

biodiversity, 
land and 
water 
stewardship

biodiversity, 
land and 
water 
stewardship

governance 
and 
transparency

communities

thriving 
workforces

e
r
u
t
a
n

e

l

p
o
e
p

SDGs

action

highlights from 2021

what we plan to do next

Contribute to sustainable 
shipping practices through-
out the value chain (e.g., 
through compliance with 
IMO/MARPOL requirements 
such as development 
and application of strict 
ballast water management 
practices and adoption of 
lower sulphur and alternative 
marine fuels for improved 
air quality).

Implement environmental 
management practices that 
incorporate the mitigation 
hierarchy to promote 
biodiversity and ecosystem 
services, with a focus on 
critical ecosystems and 
protected areas.

Strengthen cooperation 
between companies and 
governments on health, 
safety and environment 
training programs, social 
impact assessments, 
job creation and social 
performance standards.

Support national health 
efforts and community 
response through 
collaborative efforts 
on disease prevention 
and medical emergency 
response.

Implement local content 
plans that support supplier 
development and enhance 
the scale and quality  
of local procurement. 
Where possible, emphasize 
preference for local  
suppliers near operations.

•  Chevron Shipping became a 

•  Starting in 2023, Chevron Shipping  

will disclose vessels’ climate 
alignment scores utilizing the Sea 
Cargo Charter methodology

•  Chevron Shipping supports the 

target of the International Maritime 
Organization to reduce total mari-
time greenhouse gas emissions  
by at least 50% by 2050, compared 
to 2008 levels

•  Continue implementation of ERAM 
with Protective by Design concept 
that calls for implementation of 
mitigation hierarchy in early phases 
of asset lifecycle 

•  Continue preparing Biodiversity 
Action Plans and conservation 
agreements where appropriate

•  Continue to partner with 

communities and local governments 
where we operate to advance 
safety programs and enhance local 
capacity

•  Continue supporting workforce and 
community health programs where 
we operate 

•  Continue implementing local 

content plans that support supplier 
development and enhance the scale 
and quality of local procurement

signatory to the Sea Cargo Charter

•  All ships continue to have ballast 

water treatment systems

•  Mitigation hierarchy is incorporated 

in the Environmental Risk 
Assessment Management (ERAM) 
procedure and applies to all 
operations and across the asset 
lifecycle

•  Launched a $248.5 million Direct 
Investment Fund in Kazakhstan

•  Partnership with Asia Injury 

Prevention Foundation, which 
conducted quality road safety 
education in schools, increased 
road safety awareness in local 
communities, completed significant 
infrastructure modifications and 
enhanced the capacity of local 
government institutions

•  Continued to support the Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis  
and Malaria, which included 
emergency efforts to respond to  
the COVID-19 pandemic

•  Continued to support local 

communities as they recover from 
COVID-19 impacts

•  Sponsored and partnered with  

the American Heart Association  
and the Cancer Society on various  
health initiatives 

•  TCO achieved its highest recorded 
local content share of spend with 
approximately 68% or $3.2 billion 
of 2021 spend with Kazakhstani 
businesses

•  Brazil concession contract achieved 
approximately 46% of certified  
local content

•  Australian business unit in joint 
government/industry initiative 
introduced the GeneratER 
innovation program to connect 
shared business and technical 
challenges with the local industry  
to spur innovation 

Please refer to chevron.com/sustainability/social#contributingtothesdgs  
for additional information on Chevron’s contributions to the UN SDGs.

chevron.com/sustainability
45

getting results 
the right way

We cultivate a culture of integrity and commit  
ourselves to do things the right and responsible way.

Photo: Employees at a tankless facility in the Mustang Comprehensive 
Development Plan area in the Denver-Julesburg Basin in Colorado.  
In this section, learn about our approach to health and safety.

governance

governance

we believe that strong governance is the foundation  
to creating value for our stockholders 

2021 
highlights

   Increased transparency 
concerning lobbying 
and trade association 
memberships

   Updated Chevron Incentive 
Plan to directly link employee 
bonuses to achieving energy 
transition milestones

   Amended several Board 
Committee charters to clarify 
scope and roles, particularly 
as they relate to climate 
change and sustainability

Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s 
business and affairs. As part of their responsibility, the 
Board oversees risk management policies, practices and 
systems that are applied throughout the company. Board 
members regularly consider critical risk topics as part of their 
deliberative decision-making processes. Annually, through 
Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, they 
review financial, operational, market, political and other 
risks inherent in our business and oversee the safeguards 
and mitigations that are put in place. Also, as part of their 
responsibility, the Board oversees Chevron’s strategic and 
business planning process. Our Operational Excellence (OE) 
Management System enables us to systematically manage 
risks related to workforce safety and health, process safety, 
reliability and integrity, environment, efficiency, security,  
and stakeholders. Preventing high-consequence incidents  
and impacts starts with understanding and mitigating risks 
and maintaining a system of effective safeguards to help  
keep our workforce, the communities where we operate and 
the environment safe. 

board oversight 

The Board has four standing Committees, all composed 
entirely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating 
and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public 
Policy and Sustainability. Each Committee fulfills important 
responsibilities to assist the Board’s oversight of risks and to 
build long-term stockholder value. 

In 2020 and 2021, the full Board reviewed their governance  
of potential climate change-related risks and energy transition 
opportunities with the aim of providing clarity of Board and  
Committee roles and responsibilities. Each Committee under-
took a revision of their charter in order to clearly articulate 
oversight related to climate issues and coverage of related 
Board responsibilities. The Audit Committee Charter clarifies 
the Committee’s oversight of the company’s sustainability 
and climate change-related risks as they relate to financial risk 
exposures and oversight of the corporation’s OE audit and 
assurance process. 

The Management Compensation Committee Charter has been 
amended to clarify the Committee’s oversight in aligning 
compensation policies and practices with stockholder interests, 
including those related to sustainability and climate change. 
The Chevron Incentive Plan was modified to include an energy 
transition category that measures progress toward activities 
that lead to achieving our GHG metrics, growing renewable 
energy and carbon offsets, and investing in low-carbon 
technologies. This addition directly links virtually all workers’ 
annual bonuses to performance measures aimed at advancing 
a lower carbon future. 

board diversity

50%
diversity

42%
women

25%
racially/
ethnically 
diverse

our board of directors is made up of 
individuals who bring diverse experiences  
and qualities, such as leadership,  
strategic insights and the ability to provide 
oversight of risk management

chevron.com/sustainability
47

skills, experiences and expertise 
of the board of directors  

director

o

 l

e

C

p

E

a

e

r

a

e

,

d

O

e

t
i

r

s

e

o

o

n

f

n

i

s

s
i

o

r

g

r

e

s

p

r

g

e

n

s

c

i

g

e

i

n

a

n

r

e

c

c

e

e

h

,

r
i

,

t

n

e

u

e

o

g

v

b

l
i

u

e

l

r

n

c

a

t

p

o

m

r

o

l
i

y

,

e

n

a

c

g

c

c

,

h

y

n

e

a

i
f
i

x

d

e

e

c

c

a

u

n

t

t
i

v

m

i

a

n

o

l

o

g

y

,

e

,

f
i

 f
i

 f
i

n

n

n

i

n

t

g

l

o

a

a

a

n

n

n

e

r

b

c

i

c

i

c

e

a

a

l

l

,

a

d

c

c

i
s

o

c

l

u

o

n

s

t
i

u

r

n

g

e

,

n

a

a

l

t
i

b

u

o

n

s
i

a

n

l

e

a

s

f

f

s
,

a

i
r

s

l

e

t
,

g

a

l
,

e

n

v

i
r

o

n

m

t

r

 l

e

a

a

n

d

s

f

i

n

o

r

g

m

b

e

n

t

a

l

a

u

t
i

s
i

o

n

n

e

s

s

Wanda M. Austin 

John B. Frank 

Alice P. Gast 

Enrique Hernandez, Jr. 

Marillyn A. Hewson 

Jon M. Huntsman Jr. 

Charles W. Moorman 

Dambisa F. Moyo 

Debra Reed-Klages 

Ronald D. Sugar 

D. James Umpleby III 

Michael K. Wirth 

board composition (%) 

83% 

75% 

92% 

100% 

92% 

75% 

67%

The charter of the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee 
(PPSC) clarifies the manner in which the Committee assists 
the Board with climate change and other sustainability issues, 
includ ing changing the Committee’s name from “Public Policy 
Committee” to “Public Policy and Sustainability Committee.”

In addition, the Board amended the Corporate Governance 
Guidelines to clarify that climate issues are included within  
the environmental experience that the Board seeks as  
part of the skills and qualifications for Board composition,  
and it also added experience in leading business transfor-
mation to those skills and qualifications. 

Our Board of Directors is made up of individuals who bring 
diverse experiences and qualities, such as leadership, 
strategic insights and the ability to provide oversight of risk 
management. Their range of knowledge and experience 
spans operations, environmental, policy, regulatory and 
geographical issues. 

executive-level committees

The Executive Committee comprises corporate officers and 
is chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in 
managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee 
has established two subcommittees that specialize in various 
matters important to the company, including strategy and 
compliance. The Enterprise Leadership Team is responsible for 
managing the composition, resource allocation and strategic 
direction of Chevron’s portfolio to achieve our objectives. 
The Global Issues Committee (GIC), an executive-level 
sub committee, oversees Chevron’s policies and positions 
on sustainability issues and practices. The Vice President 
of Strategy and Sustainability chairs the GIC and serves as 
the secretary to the PPSC, connecting the GIC’s work to the 
oversight of the PPSC.

chevron.com/sustainability
48

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chevron’s governance structure  
relevant to ESG-related matters

investors

board of directors*

Board-level committees composed  
of non-employee directors

audit committee (AC)

board nominating and  
governance committee (BNGC)

management compensation 
committee (MCC)

public policy and sustainability  
committee (PPSC)

Assists the Board in 
overseeing accounting 
and financial reporting 
processes, including:
•  Internal controls over 
financial reporting
•  Relationship with 

independent auditor
•  Implementation and 

effectiveness of  
compliance programs

•  Financial risk management 
•  Cybersecurity risks
•  Sustainability and climate 

change risks as they relate 
to financial risk exposures

•  Operational Excellence  

audit and assurance

Assists the Board in 
overseeing governance 
practices and processes, 
including: 
•  Board succession planning
•  Board skills, experiences 

and qualifications

•  Stockholder engagement 
program (in conjunction 
with PPSC)

•  Board, Committee and 

Director evaluation process

Assists the Board in 
overseeing compensation 
programs and practices, 
including:
•  Executive retention and 

diversity strategies  
and supporting processes

•  Compensation program 

design and goals

•  Alignment of compensation 
with stockholders’ interests, 
including those related 
to sustainability and 
climate change risks and 
opportunities

Assists the Board in 
overseeing policy issues 
and potential risks in areas 
such as:
•  Environmental matters, 
including those related  
to sustainability and  
climate change

•  Legislative and regulatory 

initiatives

•  Community relations
•  Political contributions and 

lobbying

•  Chevron’s global reputation
•  Stockholder engagement 
program (in conjunction 
with BNGC)

Committees of executive officers  
operating under direction of the Board

executive committee† (EC)

enterprise leadership team† 
(ELT)

global issues committee  
(GIC)

Manages the composition, resource 
allocation and strategic direction of 
Chevron’s portfolio in the following areas:
•  Operational Excellence
•  Performance improvement
•  Energy transition
•  Enterprise Risk Management process
•  Market and price forecasts

Receives monthly briefings on these topics 
from internal subject matter experts and 
consults with outside experts to discuss 
energy transition and climate change issues. 

Oversees management of sustainability  
issues and practices, including:
•  Energy transition
•  Lobbying and trade association activity
•  ESG reporting
•  Revenue transparency
•  Human Capital Management
•  Human rights

Receives regular updates on these issues 
from internal subject matter experts in 
advance of quarterly meetings.

  * Chaired by Chairman of the Board
  † Chaired by Chief Executive Officer

Additionally, events may be handled via ad-hoc, cross-functional Crisis Management and Issue Management  
teams, which report regularly to members of the ELT, and if appropriate, provide updates to the Board.

chevron.com/sustainability
49

compliance and training

The Chevron Way forms the foundation of our compliance 
program through its expression of values and expectations  
for social responsibility and business conduct. Developed  
from these overarching principles, the Business Conduct 
and Ethics Code communicates expectations for ethical 
business conduct. The Code reinforces our compliance com-
mit ment and the responsibility of each employee to ensure 
that Chevron’s activities fully adhere to legal and policy 
requirements everywhere we operate. Chevron maintains 
internal accounting, administrative and operational controls  
to manage these standards of conduct and compliance.  
We communicate this requirement to our business partners 
through our contractual requirements and through ongoing 
engagement. Chevron employees and contractors receive 
training on Chevron’s Business Conduct and Ethics Code  
every two years. 

Our compliance program addresses detailed compliance 
requirements for many important subjects, including anti-
corruption, internal controls, international trade, anti-boycott, 
OE, data privacy and competition law. For each subject, 
senior-level Chevron leaders provide risk-based guidance  
on the company’s compliance requirements and training.  
In addition, we continue to expand our offering of diversity 
and inclusion trainings. Popular topics include unconscious 
bias and inclusive leadership.

Across Chevron, compliance is everyone’s responsibility.  
We take pride that our employees are constantly mindful  
of the company’s stringent compliance requirements.  
And in that spirit, Corporate Compliance issues a quarterly 
award celebrating meaningful efforts to do business the  
right way.

BPC

The Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) is a Washington, 
D.C.–based think tank that actively fosters bipartisanship 
to solve challenging issues and chart a productive 
path forward. Through our membership in BPC’s ESG 
Taskforce, Chevron participates in constructive, bipartisan 
conversation about ESG issues with U.S. government 
policymakers. We believe our work with this task force 
serves as a venue for policymakers and staffers to explore 
the fast-evolving landscape of ESG and climate risk 
disclosures and to consider bipartisan solutions. 

24/7

To reinforce our Business Conduct and Ethics Code,  
the Chevron Hotline operates 24 hours a day,  
seven days a week and is available for anonymous  
reporting in multiple languages.

The Chevron Hotline operates 24 hours a day, seven days  
a week and is available for anonymous reporting in multiple 
languages if someone suspects that anyone in Chevron or  
our affiliates has violated any company policy or local laws 
or has information on any activity that could damage the 
company’s reputation. Chevron does not tolerate any form of 
retaliation for reports made in good faith. This includes blatant 
actions, such as firing, transferring, demoting or publicly 
undermining someone, as well as more subtle retaliation, such 
as avoiding someone or excluding them from professional  
or social activities. It includes actions taken by managers and 
employees alike.

doing work the right way

We contribute to the communities where we work and live  
by creating jobs, developing and sourcing from local  
suppliers, and giving back in the form of social investment 
partnerships and programs. We pay taxes in jurisdictions 
around the world and comply with all applicable tax laws.  
We support the public finances of host countries by paying 
what we owe, in full and on time. Over the past decade, 
Chevron’s tax obligations have surpassed $110 billion, by 
accruing $64 billion in income taxes and more than $48 billion 
in non-income taxes, such as property taxes, severance  
taxes and payroll taxes. 

Chevron also provides a competitive total compensation  
and benefits package that enables us to attract and retain a 
highly competent global workforce. Our pay philosophy  
is to pay our workforce competitively and equitably based  
on job responsibilities and job performance. 

chevron.com/sustainability
50

lobbying and trade associations

select climate-related engagement with major US trade associations

American Fuel & Petrochemical Manu facturers 
(AFPM) AFPM repre sents high-tech American 
manufacturers and midstream companies that 
enable the production and delivery of nearly all 
U.S. gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, home heating oil, 
critical petrochemicals and other refined products

American Petroleum Institute (API) 
API represents all segments of the oil and  
gas industry

Chevron engages with AFPM to encourage support of our climate principles and positions, 
such as an economywide carbon price and innovative breakthrough technologies. Our 
continued engagements with AFPM have helped create a Carbon Steering Committee and 
shifted AFPM from historic opposition to carbon pricing to evaluating proposals on a  
case-by-case basis.

Chevron supported the creation of a new Climate Committee at API and the development  
of policy positions that support market-based approaches, innovation and support for  
the goals of the Paris Agreement. Consistent with these policy positions and in the absence  
of national, economywide, market-based solutions, API is now supporting innovation-
focused legislation, Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy reauthorization and the 
expansion of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. 

Business Roundtable (BRT) BRT is an  
association of chief executive officers of  
America’s leading companies

Chevron engaged with BRT to help develop its new climate policy principles, released 
in September 2020. BRT’s principles now more closely track Chevron’s Climate Policy 
Framework, including calling for economywide carbon pricing as the primary policy tool 
to address climate change, support for innovative technologies such as carbon capture, 
utilization and storage, and efficient streamlined regulations.

U.S. Chamber of Commerce (U.S. Chamber)  
The U.S. Chamber develops and implements 
policy on major issues affecting U.S. businesses  
of all sizes across many sectors of the economy

Chevron works with the U.S. Chamber to encourage support for market-based approaches  
to climate policy, innovative breakthrough technologies and streamlined, efficient regu lations. 
The U.S. Chamber also shares our support for the goals of the Paris Agreement and calls for 
phasing down the use of hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs.

Jay Thompson
Manager,  
Federal and International  
Government Affairs

employee spotlight

I manage a team that advocates Chevron’s positions  
with the U.S. government and abroad. One of our 
biggest challenges is lobbying effectively at a time  
when the United States is so politically polarized.  
Our strategic time horizon is long, and we need to be 
able to work with policymakers on both sides. Our goal 
is to help enable the United States to maintain a vibrant 
energy sector, which is critical for economic vitality. 

When we don’t achieve alignment with our member 
trade groups, we may independently share our own 
approach. We seek to be a trusted and reliable source  
of information to governments around the world to 
create better policies. I’m particu larly proud of the 
opportunity I get every day to articulate Chevron’s 
contribution to society as we work toward advancing  
a lower carbon future.

lobbying

Building on our 2020 Climate Lobbying Report, we updated 
the lobbying and trade association webpage that includes a  
de tail ed description of our policies, processes and oversight.  
We now disclose all U.S. trade association memberships where a  
portion of our dues are attributed to lobbying and the range of  
lobbying expenditures made through these trade associations.  
We report a five-year history of corporate political and Chevron  
Employees Political Action Committee contributions and the 
Executive Committee reviews and endorses corporate political 
contributions and the central budget annually. All Chevron 
employees adhere to strict internal review procedures for 
all corporate political contributions, and no employee is 
reimbursed for making a political contribution. All corporate 
political contributions are made independent of executives’ 
personal political preferences and in alignment with Chevron’s 
business interests. Beginning in 2022, we are planning semi-
annual updates regarding corporate political contributions 
and employee political action committee contributions.

As part of our oversight, employees receive mandated  
online training on political compliance education, delivered to 
in-scope employees and translated into several languages.  
In addition, internal legal counsel and the political compliance 
team provide regularly scheduled training to all employees 
who might engage in lobbying activities. Some jurisdictions, 
including California, also require that lobbyists take training as 
part of their registration.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/governance.

chevron.com/sustainability
51

governance

cybersecurity

protecting our people, information and operations

2021 
highlights

  Chevron’s digital strategy 
strengthened our ability  
to navigate the current and 
future risk environment  
and advance a digitally  
driven future 

  Maintained secure 
operations for more than 
35,000 employees and 
contractors, who continued  
to work remotely

  Continued to improve our 
cybersecurity program to 
mitigate the risks inherent in 
an increasingly connected 
and challenging cybersecurity 
landscape

delivering cybersecurity

2021 was a pivotal year for cybersecurity. The threat  
landscape evolved with increased targeting of process  
control networks (PCN), exploitation of trusted software  
in supply chains, and frequency of ransomware attacks.  
In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic created an environ ment 
where a large number of employees and contractors may 
be working remotely at any given point in time, which has 
provided more opportunities for mali cious hackers to exploit.

The prevention of high-consequence cybersecurity incidents  
is a notable goal of our Enterprise Risk Management process. 

Chevron’s Digital Transformation effort integrated 
cybersecurity into our platforms and promotes Security by 
Design, one of six digital enterprise imperatives that form 
our company’s digital strategy. Security by Design aims to 
protect Chevron’s high-value assets and the value of our digital 
solutions by making security intrinsic to the development of  
the digital solutions we build before we build them. 

At Chevron, we seek to protect our people, information  
and assets by using a risk-based, multilayered approach  
to cybersecurity. In 2017, we integrated cybersecurity  
into our Operational Excellence Management System  
with the Cybersecurity for Personnel and Assets process.  

assuring safeguards are in place

We test our cybersecurity program using internal and external 
assessments to verify that safeguards are in place and 
effective. The frequency and rigor of compliance controls 

cybersecurity safeguards and programs are organized  
and managed based on an internationally recognized  
cybersecurity framework developed by NIST (National  
Institute of Standards and Technology):

recover
activities to maintain plans  
for resilience and to restore  
any capabilities or services  
that were impaired due to a  
cybersecurity event

respond
activities to take action  
regarding a detected  
cybersecurity incident

er
v
o
c
e
r

r

e

s

p

o

nd

i d entify

p

r

o

t

e
c
t

NIST  
cybersecurity 
framework

identify
organizational understanding 
to manage cybersecurity risk 
to systems, people, assets, 
data and capabilities

protect
cybersecurity safeguards 
to ensure delivery of critical 
services

e t e ct

d

detect
monitoring and  
surveillance activities to 
identify the occurrence of  
a cybersecurity event

chevron.com/sustainability
52

ONG-ISAC 

As members of the ONG-ISAC (Oil and Natural Gas 
Information Sharing and Analysis Center), we come 
together with other major energy companies not as 
competitors, but as trusted partners to share intelligence 
on cyber incidents, threats and best practices to address 
the unique challenges our industry faces. We share 
information and improve our capabilities as we seek to 
bolster cybersecurity across the industry. 

Kayla Lacefield
Operational Technology  
Cybersecurity Engineer 

employee spotlight

Before joining Chevron, I was a systems administrator in 
the U.S. Air Force for eight years. That experience was 
great preparation for my current work as operational 
technology, OT, cybersecurity engineer at Chevron. 

In the Air Force, I supported all aspects of IT, from 
delivering network security to software configuration. 
As an OT security engineer, I provide digital support to 
our operations, which focuses on managing our process 
control networks. My role is to design and establish the 
guardrails for the multiple safeguards we have in place to 
prevent or mitigate impacts to our PCNs. 

One of our biggest assets is Security by Design, which 
helps build cybersecurity into a system’s architecture 
and individual solutions. Using Security by Design, my 
team works with our business units to develop guardrails 
and test that those guardrails are effective. The team 
also evaluates our vendors to certify that they’re 
secure by design – it’s a process that not only supports 
cybersecurity, integrity and reliability, but also has the 
potential to reduce costs. 

There’s also a very human side to our work. For example,  
a PCN may monitor the facility’s emissions and effluents.  
My team’s job is to put in the protocols so that we have  
confidence that the data are protected and reliable. 
Accurate and timely data enable us to have the infor-
mation to help keep our employees and the communities 
where we operate safe and healthy.

and audits are determined using a risk-based approach. 
Because the threat landscape continuously changes, we 
use penetration testing, which simulates attacks against the 
company, employing tactics, techniques and procedures 
hackers use to achieve their objective of accessing sensitive 
data or disrupting business operations. 

In the operational technology space, cybersecurity for PCN 
(e.g., industrial control systems) is a top priority for Chevron. 
PCNs have multiple safeguards in place to protect them against 
attack. We use a risk-based approach to establish that PCN 
architecture is securely designed and implemented. 

preparing the workforce

We require employees and contractors to complete training 
either annually or biannually on a range of cybersecurity  
best practices, including information on risk awareness,  
data privacy, privileged user access and email phishing. 
Training is updated regularly to reflect current cybersecurity 
challenges and Chevron’s cybersecurity objectives. We also 
have a cyber security awareness campaign to make the 
workforce aware of risks and threats and educate people  
on safe cyber behaviors. 

establishing resilient operations

The intensifying threat landscape and the speed and 
sophistication of the ability of malicious actors to exploit 
vulnerabilities have made cyber attacks increasingly difficult 
to prevent. Therefore, we seek to quickly identify and rapidly 
respond to cyber incidents to limit their scope and impact  
and enable us to restore normal operations as fast as possible. 
In addition, we use multiple methods to regularly test our 
cybersecurity program, including exercises that test and build 
our capabilities to enable us to maintain a ready state for 
responding to and recovering from cyber incidents. 

supporting the new way of working

Previous crises such as hurricanes on the U.S. Gulf Coast 
prepared Chevron for the impact of COVID-19 as we shifted 
to working at home. At peak, more than 35,000 employees 
and contractors were able to work safely from home with 
the protections provided by our cybersecurity team. The 
cybersecurity team worked with vendors and partners to 
provide us with the resources needed to enable secure access 
to our network. To maintain our cybersecurity posture as 
Chevron embraces a hybrid work model, we continue to 
monitor the network and conduct vulnerability assessments, 
audits and email phishing exercises to test that we are 
appropriately managing the risk.

To learn more, visit chevron.com/cybersecurity.

chevron.com/sustainability
53

governance

health and safety

we work to protect the health and safety of  
our workforce through our policies, programs and actions

2021 
highlights

  Continued focus on programs 
to support employee mental 
health and resilience

  Used analytics technology 
to apply a risk-based 
approach for managing land 
transportation safety

  Enhanced our management 
processes and procedures  
to seek to make our 
operations safer

Recent challenges, like the COVID-19 pandemic, have 
demonstrated the innovative spirit of our culture and fueled 
the evolution of programs and processes that support our 
Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). The 
OEMS enables us to systematically manage risk, implement 
and assure safeguards, and foster a culture of learning. 

chevron’s OEMS  
is a comprehensive and  
prescriptive system to improve 
our health, safety and  
environmental performance

assura

n

c

leadership and
OE culture

e

safeguards

focus areas
and OE 
expectations

management
system cycle

ris

k m

anagement

mental health

At Chevron, we recognize the importance of self-care, mental 
health and emotional well-being as part of our overall health, 
safety and productivity. We provide our employees with 
convenient access to work-site wellness programs and use 
data to evaluate effectiveness and engagement. 

Providing wellness programs
Chevron’s Healthy You program offers tools and resources 
to help eligible participants reach their health goals. The 
program is mobile and on-demand, which fits the needs of our 
global workforce to help them reduce stress, make healthier 
life choices and take steps to protect themselves from 
communicable diseases, including COVID-19. Now available 
in four languages, the program has extended its reach into 
18 countries, where it is demonstrating its effectiveness in 
supporting a healthier, safer, more productive workforce. 
Surveys found between 69% and 87% of Chevron participants 
felt the Healthy You program provided the following out-
comes: improved their productivity, helped them feel more 
committed and engaged at work, made them proud of the 
company culture, and helped them develop useful habits.  
A survey conducted by our U.S. vendor, WebMD, indicated  
the Healthy You program has helped Chevron employees 
achieve lower personal health risk rates when compared with 
other WebMD clients included in the survey.

Another resource available to employees is the meQuilibrium 
(meQ) app, a stress-management tool designed to help users 
learn ways to navigate stress, overcome negative thinking, 
and build greater resilience to the stressful thoughts and 
situations that come with daily life. Chevron meQ members 
scored higher than members at other companies in several 
key areas, including overall resilience, connection to their job 
and connection to their team. The meQ app is also available 
on-demand in nine countries and four languages.

chevron.com/oemsoverview

chevron.com/sustainability
54

Building strength and resilience 
To help support the mental health and wellness of our global 
workforce, business units may adopt additional programs 
on a site-specific basis. To maintain operations at Angola 
LNG at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, an emergency 
management team listened to employees who articulated a 
need for rest, exercise and stress relief. In consultation with 
Chevron’s Health & Medical doctors, Angola LNG developed 
the Strength and Resilience Movement – a calendar of activities, 
education events and special meals to create a sense of 
community and provide opportunities for rest, exercise and 
stress relief. In Israel, workers on the Leviathan Production 
Platform engaged in a “Lose to Win” campaign aimed at 
healthy weight loss. In Thailand, we established a virtual 
mental health talk forum, created engaging activities to 
support healthy hearts and provided peer-to-peer support 
programs to increase workers’ self-reliance. 

return to the workplace

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, a large segment of 
our global workforce remained onsite to keep our facilities 
operating safely. The other members of our global workforce 
have been working remotely while continuing to provide 
effective support to our operations. During this time, we 
have actively addressed evolving issues, updating workforce 
guidelines to be consistent with the advice of leading public 
health organizations for providing a safe workplace. 

We now have a better understanding of the risks and of 
viable and effective safeguards, and we have the capacity to 
manage the impact of the virus on our operations at the local 
and regional level. Based on what we have learned, Chevron 
has developed new safeguards and operating standards and 
updated existing protocols to adjust for the ever-changing 
conditions of the pandemic, including a strategy for a paced, 
conditions-based return to the workplace that allows our 
business units to make decisions based on local conditions. 
The company also announced a hybrid work model, based on 
employee feedback and learnings from the pandemic, that 
will give employees the flexibility to combine in-office and 
remote work. We also have region-specific resources available 
to help our workforce navigate this transition. We recognize 
that the risks associated with COVID-19 might impact our 
communities to varying degrees for the foreseeable future, 
and we are counseling our employees to be vigilant and use 
the safeguards available to them.

Vanessa Fruge
Process Engineer,  
Pascagoula Refinery

employee spotlight

During the planning phase for recent turnarounds,  
I was 28 weeks pregnant, so I went to our local medical 
clinic to evaluate my fitness for duty because working 
a turnaround is more physical than a typical day at 
work. Performing inspections on equipment can involve 
crawling into tight spaces, climbing ladders, increased 
noise exposure and other activities in the plant. Our 
industrial hygienist provided me with recommendations 
to discuss with my doctor and supervisor to help 
keep me healthy and safe while performing my job 
responsibilities during the turnaround. 

On the job, whenever I brought up concerns to my team, 
my co-workers were available to help me. To complete 
tasks that I could not physically perform in my third tri-
mester, such as confined space entry for column inspec-
tions, I took advantage of HoloLens, which is a headset 
that can be worn in the field to provide me with a remote 
view on my iPad. My supervisor also supported my 
need for new maternity FRC (flame-resistant clothing). 
The overall support I received at this time was critical 
in keeping me safe and healthy during my pregnancy 
while enabling me to perform typical turnaround tasks. 
Completing a turnaround is an important milestone for 
any process engineer hoping to grow their capabilities, 
and I didn’t want to miss out on that opportunity. 

This experience is consistent with the way Chevron has 
supported me across my career. They have allowed me 
to be creative and open-minded with my work – and 
they have encouraged me to bring my recommendations 
to the table. Overall, I feel very fortunate to work for 
a company where I do not have to choose between a 
thriving career and the personal experience of being  
a parent.

chevron.com/sustainability
55

how we maintain safe operations

risk

assess

manage
safeguards

verify

assurance

comprehensive risk management based on data and science 

Preventing high-consequence incidents and impacts starts with  
understanding and mitigating risks. We manage risk across our six focus areas  
through a system of safeguards. Learn more at chevron.com/oems.

workforce safety

Chevron’s leaders drive our OE culture by managing risk 
and learning from each other. Chevron is committed to 
continuously improving safety and in this spirit, we innovate  
to find better ways to protect our workforce.

Preparing for high-risk activities
Consistent with our goal of preventing fatalities and serious 
incidents, we established Start-Work Checks (SWCs) in 
2018 for workers involved in high-risk activities. The SWCs 
require these workers to assure that critical safeguards are 
in place and functioning as intended before they start a task. 
In each case, a verifier confirms the worker’s assessment 
with leadership support from a supervisor, when required. 
SWCs are digitally available to workers on company-enabled 
mobile devices, providing access to information for each 
task. Chevron’s approach to preventing serious injuries and 
fatalities with SWCs has made our operations safer and 
positively influenced the safety of our industry. We believe 
the SWCs have contributed to our decreased fatality rate from 
2018 to 2021. The IOGP’s Safety Committee was aware of  
the success SWCs provided to Chevron’s workforce. As a 
result, the committee welcomed Chevron to voluntarily lead  
a sub-team within the IOGP Life-Saving Rules task force to 
build out verifiable SWCs. Integrating SWCs for all legacy 
Noble Energy assets is ongoing.

Monitoring heat stress and heat strain
On hot days, workers in outdoor and some indoor settings 
face an increased risk of incurring heat strain (the overall 
physiological response to heat stress), which can lead to 
significant illness and even death. To protect our workforce 
from heat strain, we are researching and piloting the  
feasibility of a wearable skin patch that could provide real-
time, automated analysis of sweat loss, electrolyte loss, 
temperature between the skin and clothing, and motion.  
Using these measurements, it’s possible to identify conditions 
that can lead to heat stress and heat strain, alert workers  
when they need to take breaks, and provide recommendations 
for replenishment of fluids and electrolytes. 

Enforcing greater road safety 
Transportation safety in the communities where we operate 
is a top priority. As a founding member of the Permian Road 
Safety Coalition, we share and advance best practices among 
the companies operating in the region as well as educate 
communities on their critical role in road safety. This initiative 
in the Permian Basin is consistent with our enterprisewide, 
risk-based approach to land transportation safety, with a 
focus on applying appropriate safeguards and controls to 
prevent serious injuries and fatalities. In 2021, Chevron started 
using road safety analytics to evaluate crash data history 
and identify high-risk road segments to understand the risks 
associated with various routes and schedules. These tools 
support our transportation safety efforts by providing drivers 
with alternative lower-risk routes. 

chevron.com/sustainability
56

YCAB

In Indonesia, Chevron supports the YCAB Foundation, an 
organization dedicated to breaking the cycle of poverty 
through education and innovative financing. Beginning 
in December 2021, Chevron Pacific Indonesia and the 
YCAB Foundation collaboratively held a two-month mass 
vaccination program to administer COVID-19 vaccines 
to residents of West Java, an Indonesian province where 
vaccinations had previously lagged. Outreach emphasized 
reaching vulnerable groups and those with disabilities.  
In addition, Chevron cooperated with the Health Crisis 
Center of the Ministry of Health to lease a secure warehouse 
in Jakarta to store COVID-19 donations and equipment.  
We also funded training for the Ministry of Health’s staff  
on warehouse management.

Promoting active partnership 
The OEMS establishes the expectation to apply robust 
standards to assessing, managing and mitigating risks from  
all our operations, including those that employ a contractor 
workforce. Our approach to workforce safety requires training 
for all employees and contractors on Chevron’s pro cesses, 
standards and guidelines. Building upon the success of our 
Contractor HES Management program, we developed the 
Contractor Operational Excellence Management (COEM) 
process to establish clear accountabilities, promote active 
partnership, and provide a consistent process to help prevent 
serious injuries, fatalities and loss-of-containment events.  
Key enhancements of COEM include:

•  Fit-for-purpose learning methodology  

for consequence assessment

•  New guidelines for working together in  

a contracting environment

•  Increased rigor in HSE qualification  

standards for contractors

•  Improved risk assessment process for  
evaluating a contractor’s ability to  
implement and verify effective safeguards

•  Clarification of definition of safeguard  

assurance before work starts

In 2021, we piloted COEM in our Fuels & Lubricants business, 
and our other business units are developing deployment 
strategies to introduce COEM in 2022. COEM process require-
ments and standards will be integrated into prac tical work 
instructions, training, procedures, tools and other methods.

process safety

The systems to manage process safety are complex, and it 
takes people with skills in a wide variety of disciplines working 
together to keep our safeguards strong and effective.

Transforming our organization
In 2021, we completed the transformation of our organization 
and the integration of Noble Energy and launched Chevron 
New Energies. Much like managing change in our equipment 
and operations, organizational change requires a review and 
authorization process for evaluating proposed adjustments  
to anticipate unforeseen new hazards and plan for unintended 
consequences. To manage these changes, we asked experts 
and empowered our workforce to identify gaps and evaluate 
potential risks associated with the organizational changes.  
The transformation helped improve our process safety culture 
by engaging leaders who not only embraced change and 
growth but also are committed to sustaining OE performance  
at a level that meets our competitive objectives.

e

v

im pr o

m

a

i

n

t

ain

FIRM

facilities integrity  
and reliability  
management

d

e

s
i

g

n

p erate

o

Maintaining reliability and integrity
The reliability and integrity of our equipment is another 
important dimension of process safety. We are using digital 
technologies to transform our ability to look at equipment 
across our enterprise and gain better insights to further 
improve our integrity and risk management. As of 2021, the 
harmonization and standardization of the design, operating 
and maintenance practices within our Upstream, Midstream, 
and Downstream & Chemicals businesses have enabled the 
development of an enterprisewide data system and equipment 
stewardship approach: Facilities Integrity and Reliability 
Management (FIRM). We will begin implementing FIRM in 2022. 

To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/governance# 
pursuingoperationalexcellence.

chevron.com/sustainability
57

performance

We demonstrate our commitment to transparency  
by reporting metrics and performance data annually.

Photo: We use drones in our operations to inspect our facilities and 
monitor GHG emissions. In this section, learn about our performance.

performance

performance data

we demonstrate our commitment to transparency by  
reporting metrics and performance data annually*

At Chevron, we strive to be transparent and improve our reporting on sustainability-related  
topics to help provide comparable and decision-useful information for investors and  
other stakeholders. We are working with peers, stakeholders and regulators to achieve  
greater consistency and comparability of reporting.

We consider environmental, social, and governance 
information in both voluntary and mandatory disclosures.  
For voluntary reporting, we consider the reporting guidelines, 
indicators and terminology in the Sustainability Reporting 
Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020) by Ipieca, the 
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP), 
and the American Petroleum Institute (API). We also consider 
other leading reporting frameworks, such as the Stakeholder 
Capitalism metrics developed by the World Economic  
Forum, to determine which data to include in our tables. 
Chevron uses the World Resources Institute/World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(2015) definition of three “scopes” to report GHG emissions.

enhancing our reporting

We provide index columns that map our current reporting  
data to the relevant Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) and Ipieca frameworks. The indices are based 

solely on Chevron’s interpretation and judgment and do not 
indicate the application of definitions, metrics, measure-
ments, standards or approaches set forth in the SASB and 
Ipieca frameworks. Please refer to the relevant footnotes for 
information about Chevron’s data-reporting basis.

In this year’s Corporate Sustainability Report, we added  
a new table that tracks our progress toward our 2028 GHG 
emissions intensity targets. We also expanded our global 
employee diversity data to provide region and gender 
information. In line with our approach to provide comparable 
and transparent data, we developed the portfolio carbon 
intensity (PCI) methodology to enable the comparison of 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions of companies that may 
participate in different parts of the value chain. In addition, 
we are also providing a separate GHG data performance table 
based on the API Template for GHG Reporting (March 2022) 
and API Guidance Document for GHG Reporting (March 2022). 
We aspire to continue to achieve real results and transparently 
communicate progress on our performance. 

GHG reporting equity metrics and targets

portfolio carbon intensity (grams CO2e/megajoule) 1

74.9

73.8

73.4

72.7

71.4

71.3

71.0 

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2028 target

upstream carbon intensity 2

Oil intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

Gas intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

Methane intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

Flaring intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe) 

41.9

32.6

4.5

8.7

36.8

35.0

3.3

7.2

37.0

34.7

2.8

6.3

33.3

30.4

2.4

4.7

28.2

26.8

2.0

3.8

28.6

28.6

2.1

4.3

refining carbon intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe) 3

36.6

34.5

34.9

35.9

38.6

37.9

24.0 

24.0 

2.0 

3.0 

36.0 

*  Unless otherwise noted, this section reflects 2021 data collected as of April 11, 2022. All data are reported on an operated basis unless otherwise noted. Operated GHG emissions, environmental 
performance, and workforce health and safety tables include data from Tengizchevroil and the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. All restatements are restated against the  
May 2021 release of the Corporate Sustainability Report (2020). Numbers in table may not sum due to rounding.

chevron.com/sustainability
59

For more than 10 years, we have conducted independent 
third-party assurance of Chevron’s GHG emissions. In 2021,  
we expanded this assurance to include Chevron’s performance 
data, Scope 3 emissions and GHG emissions on an operational-
control basis. The objective is to assess whether the assured 
emissions data are reported in accordance with the principles 
of completeness, comparability across the organization and 
accuracy, including calculations, use of appropriate conversion 
factors and consolidation.

to create customized charts and tables  
using our performance data, visit: 

chevron.com/sustainability/ 
performance/chart-generator

for our most recent assurance  
statements, visit: 

chevron.com/oemsISOcertification

chevron.com/ESGassurance

chevron.com/GHGassurance

API GHG template 

Chevron has been working in leadership roles within 
API to develop a template for reporting core GHG 
emissions data in an effort to support API member 
companies in reporting consistent, comparable and 
transparent climate-related data to the financial 
sector, policymakers, industry customers and other 
stakeholders. Additional information and a copy  
of Chevron’s API-aligned GHG Reporting Template  
will be available at chevron.com/APItemplate.

ESG data quality

The accuracy of the information reflected in our report  
is important to us. Since 2004, Chevron has engaged  
an accredited assurance provider, Lloyd’s Register Quality 
Assurance, Inc. (LRQA), to verify that our Operational 
Excellence Management System (OEMS) meets international 
environmental and safety management system standards  
and specifications. In 2021, we obtained a Certificate of 
Approval that demonstrates the alignment of our OEMS  
with ISO 14001:2015 and 45001:2018 standards, as well  
as the integrity and strength of our Chevron Technical  
Center in setting the strategic direction of the OEMS and 
providing oversight and verification of its effectiveness 
throughout the corporation. 

We also engaged LRQA to provide independent assurance 
on Chevron’s processes used to create the Corporate 
Sustainability Report for calendar year 2021 to a reasonable 
level. LRQA’s assurance engagement covered Chevron’s 
operations and activities worldwide and evaluated how 
effective Chevron’s reporting processes were in delivering 
health, safety and environmental indicators that are useful for 
assessing corporate performance and reporting information 
consistent with core and additional reporting elements  
in the Ipieca/API/IOGP Sustainability Reporting Guidance  
for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020) and SASB Oil and Gas –  
Exploration and Production, Midstream, and Refining & 
Marketing accounting metrics referenced in the performance 
data tables. In some cases, Ipieca elements and SASB metrics 
referenced are partially reported. 

chevron.com/sustainability
60

equity emissions

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

portfolio carbon intensity (grams CO2e/megajoule) 1

73.8

73.4

72.7

71.4

71.3

upstream carbon intensity 2

Oil intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

Gas intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

Methane intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

Flaring intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe)

36.8

35.0

3.3

7.2

37.0

34.7

2.8

6.3

33.3

30.4

2.4

4.7

28.2

26.8

2.0

3.8

refining carbon intensity (kilograms CO2e/boe) 3

34.5

34.9

35.9

38.6

enabled reductions (million tonnes CO2e) 4

7

6

5

5

CCE4: C4

CCE4: C4

CCE4: C4

CCE4:  
C1/A1

28.6

28.6

2.1

4.3

37.9

17

57

direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 5, 6, 7, 8

direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) – all GHGs  
(million tonnes CO2e)

Upstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 9

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 (million tonnes CH4) 10

CH4 (million tonnes CO2e) 10

Other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Upstream flaring – all GHGs  
(subset of Scope 1) (million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 (million tonnes CH4) 10

CH4 (million tonnes CO2e) 10

Midstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 (million tonnes CH4) 10

CH4 (million tonnes CO2e) 10

Other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Downstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 11

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) – all GHGs  
(million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million tonnes)

63

27

24

66

28

25

62

27

24

54

23

21

23 EM-EP-110a.1

CCE4: C3

20

0.12

0.10

0.10

0.08

0.08

3.0

0.1

5

5

0.02

0.5

2.5

0.1

5

5

0.02

0.5

2.4

0.1

5

4

0.01

0.4

2.1

0.1

4

3

0.01

0.3

2.1

0.1

4 EM-EP-110a.2

CCE7: C4

4

0.01

0.3

2

2

2

2

1

1

1

1

1 EM-MD-110a.1 CCE4: C3

1

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

21

20

0.1

7

7

20

20

0.1

9

9

19

19

0.1

8

8

18

18

0.1

7

7

20 EM-RM-110a.1 CCE4: C3

19

0.2

8 EM-EP-110a.2

CCE4: C3

8

0.3

equity emissions table continues on page 62

Other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

Volume of flares (mmscf)

80,000

70,000

60,000

50,000

50,000

CCE7: A1

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

0.4

0.5

0.3

0.2

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
61

equity emissions, cont.

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) – all GHGs  
(million tonnes CO2e), cont.

Chemicals – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 12, 13

CO2 (million tonnes)

5

5

5

5

5

5

4

4

4

4

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

Other – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 14

CO2 (million tonnes)

1

1

2

2

1

1

1

1

1

1

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

Emissions associated with exported electricity  
and steam (million tonnes CO2e) 15

Upstream (million tonnes CO2e) 9

Midstream (million tonnes CO2e)

Downstream (million tonnes CO2e) 11

LNG (million tonnes CO2e)

Chemicals (million tonnes CO2e) 12, 13

Other (million tonnes CO2e) 14

indirect GHG emissions from imported 
energy (Scope 2) 5, 7, 8, 16

indirect GHG emissions from imported electricity,  
heat, steam and cooling (Scope 2, market-based) 

Upstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 9

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

3

1

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

3

1

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

2

1

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

< 1

4

1

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

4

1

Midstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 

< 1

< 1

< 1

< 1

< 1

Downstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 11

LNG – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Chemicals – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 12, 13

Other – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 14

1

0

< 1

< 1

1

0

< 1

< 1

1

0

< 1

< 1

1

0

1

1

0

1

< 1

< 1

third-party verification 17

Assurance level

Assurance provider

indirect GHG emissions – all other  
(Scope 3) 18

Category 11 use of sold products –  
production method (million tonnes CO2e)

Category 11 use of sold products –  
throughput method (million tonnes CO2e)

Category 11 use of sold products –  
sales method (million tonnes CO2e)

Limited

Limited

Limited

Limited

Limited

ERM CVS ERM CVS ERM CVS ERM CVS

DNV

377

396

412

412

408

365

380

382

372

389

613

628

639

583

611

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
62

CCE4: C3

CCE4: C3

CCE4: 
C3/A6

CCE4:  
C2/C3

CCE4: A2

operated emissions

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 5, 6, 7

direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) – all GHGs  
(million tonnes CO2e)

Upstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 (million tonnes CH4) 10

CH4 (million tonnes CO2e) 10

Other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Upstream flaring – all GHGs (subset of Scope 1) 
(million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million metric tons)

CH4 (million tonnes CH4) 10

CH4 (million tonnes CO2e) 10

67

37

32

68

35

32

63

34

31

56

30

28

57

CCE4:  
C1/A1

29 EM-EP-110a.1

CCE4: C3

26

0.17

0.14

0.12

0.11

0.11

4.2

0.1

9

8

0.04

0.9

3.5

0.1

9

8

0.03

0.8

3.0

0.1

8

7

0.02

0.6

2.7

0.1

6

5

0.02

0.4

2.7

0.1

6 EM-EP-110a.2

CCE7: C4

6

0.02

0.5

Other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

Volume of flares (mmscf)

140,000

130,000

100,000

90,000

90,000

CCE7: A1

Midstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 (million tonnes CH4) 10

CH4 (million tonnes CO2e) 10

Other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Downstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 11

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

LNG – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

CO2 (million tonnes)

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Chemicals – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 12

CO2 (million tonnes)

2

2

2

2

1

1

1

1

1 EM-MD-110a.1 CCE4: C3

1

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.01

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

15 EM-RM-110a.1 CCE4: C3

14

0.2

11 EM-EP-110a.2

CCE4: C3

16

16

0.1

11

10

0.7

< 1

< 1

15

15

0.1

13

12

0.8

< 1

< 1

14

14

0.1

11

11

0.4

< 1

< 1

14

14

0.1

9

9

0.3

< 1

< 1

11

0.5

< 1

< 1

CCE4: C3

CCE4: C3

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

Other – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 14

CO2 (million tonnes)

1

1

2

2

1

1

1

1

1

1

CH4 and other GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

< 0.1

operated emissions table continues on page 64

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
63

operated emissions, cont.

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) – all GHGs  
(million tonnes CO2e), cont.

Emissions associated with exported  
electricity and steam (subset of Scope 1)  
(million tonnes CO2e) 15

Upstream (million tonnes CO2e)

Midstream (million tonnes CO2e) 

Downstream (million tonnes CO2e) 11

LNG (million tonnes CO2e)

Chemicals (million tonnes CO2e) 12

Other (million tonnes CO2e) 14

indirect GHG emissions from imported 
energy (Scope 2) 5, 7, 16

indirect GHG emissions from imported electricity,  
heat, steam and cooling (Scope 2, market-based) 

Upstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

2

1

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

2

1

Midstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

< 1

< 1

1

0

< 1

< 1

1

0

< 1

< 1

< 1

< 1

0

4

0

3

Downstream – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 11

LNG – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e)

Chemicals – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 12

Other – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 14

GHG mitigation

Carbon capture, utilization and storage  
(CCUS) – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 19

Renewable Energy Credits (RECs for indirect 
emissions) – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 20

Offsets – all GHGs (million tonnes CO2e) 21

indirect GHG emissions – all other  
(Scope 3) 18

Category 11 use of sold products – production  
method (million tonnes CO2e)

Category 11 use of sold products – throughput  
method (million tonnes CO2e)

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

1

1

< 1

< 1

0

< 1

< 1

1

< 1

1

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

< 1

1

1

< 1

< 1

0

< 1

< 1

3

< 1

2

1

< 1

0

< 1

0

0

1

2

1

< 1

1

0

< 1

< 1

1

< 1

13

CCE4:  
C3/A6

CCE4:  
C2/C3

CCE3: A6

CCE3: A7

CCE4: A2

608

617

622

588

621

386

406

411

392

450

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
64

environmental performance

energy efficiency

Total energy consumption, operated  
assets and nonoperated joint-venture  
refineries (trillion BTUs) 22

Total energy consumption, operated assets 
and nonoperated joint-venture refineries  
(million gigajoules) 22

Total energy consumption, operated assets  
(trillion BTUs) 22

Total energy consumption, operated assets  
(million gigajoules) 22

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

CCE6

843

940

916

851

862

CCE6: C1

889

992

967

898

909

CCE6: C1

687

778

758

701

706

725

821

800

739

745

Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) 23

85

85

85

88

88

Upstream Energy Intensity  
(thousand BTUs per barrel of oil-equivalent) 24

Pipeline Energy Intensity  
(BTUs per barrel of oil-equivalent-mile) 25

Shipping Energy Intensity  
(BTUs per metric ton-mile)

Non-Manufacturing Energy Index 26

air quality 27

317

358

362

341

306

13

70

75

10

75

74

8

70

67

10

69

71

10

69

65

Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted  
(thousand metric tons) 28

142

115

102

81

91

Total sulfur oxides (SOX) emitted  
(thousand metric tons) 28

Total nitrogen oxides (NOX) emitted  
(thousand metric tons)

water management

water withdrawn 29 

Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)

Upstream

Refining 30

Other 31

Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)

Upstream

Refining 30

Other 31

52

40

36

41

87

147

141

130

112

113

EM-EP-120a.1 
EM-MD-120a.1 
EM-RM-120a.1

EM-EP-120a.1 
EM-MD-120a.1 
EM-RM-120a.1

EM-EP-120a.1 
EM-MD-120a.1 
EM-RM-120a.1

72

33

36

3

41

22

18

1

71

31

37

3

39

21

16

2

70

33

34

3

45

27

17

1

63

28

33

2

34

17

17

< 1

67

27 EM-EP-140a.1

37 EM-RM-140a.1

2

33

15

17

1

CCE6: C1

CCE6: C1

CCE6: A4

CCE6: A2

CCE6: A2

CCE6: A2

CCE6: A3

ENV5

ENV5: C1

ENV5: C1

ENV5: C1

ENV1

ENV1: C1

ENV1: A4

 Indicates restatement of data.

environmental performance table continues on page 66

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
65

environmental performance, cont.

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

water management, cont.

water withdrawn,29 cont. 

Fresh water withdrawn intensity

Upstream (barrel of water per barrel of oil-equivalent) 32

0.14

0.12

0.14

0.11

0.10

Refining (barrel of water per barrel of  
oil-equivalent as feedstock) 33

0.52

0.55

0.53

0.57

0.56

ENV1: A2

ENV1: A2

Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters)

71

70

69

62

66 EM-EP-140a.1

ENV1: C2

Fresh water withdrawn in regions with high or 
extremely high baseline water stress (%) 34

Fresh water consumed in regions with high or 
extremely high baseline water stress (%) 34

wastewater 35

Average oil concentration in discharges to surface 
water (parts per million)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

19

19

EM-EP-140a.1 
EM-RM-140a.1

ENV1: C4

EM-EP-140a.1 
EM-RM-140a.1

ENV1: C4

ENV2

Upstream

Refining 30

8

1

7

1

8

1

7

1

6 EM-EP-140a.2

ENV2: C1

2

ENV2: C2

0.9

0.04

0.7

0.03

0.7

0.03

0.5

0.03

0.4 EM-EP-140a.2

ENV2: C1

0.05

ENV2: C2

1.46

1.02

0.79

0.94

2.13

Total volume recovered

1.15

0.84

0.64

0.60

0.83

Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills)

56

60

51

45

ENV6

EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MD-160a.4

ENV6: C2

EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MD-160a.4

ENV6: A1

81

EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MD-160a.4

ENV6: C2

ENV7

Total amount of oil discharged to surface water  
(thousand metric tons)

Upstream

Refining 30

accidental release prevention  
and response 36

Petroleum spills to land and water  
(volume in thousand barrels)

waste 37

Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons)

Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons)

Hazardous waste recycled, reused or recovered  
(million metric tons)

fines and settlements 38

Number of environmental, health and safety fines 
paid and settlements entered into, equity basis

Cost of environmental, health and safety fines  
paid and settlements entered into, equity basis  
(millions of dollars)

0.4

0.3

0.1

0.4

0.3

0.2

0.4

0.2

0.2

0.2

0.1

0.1

0.3 EM-RM-150a.1

ENV7: C3

0.2

ENV7: C3

0.1 EM-RM-150a.1

ENV7: C3

89

64

104

45

57

$40.5

$9.1

$16.1

$3.0

$3.6

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
66

U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics 39

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Total employees: women (%)

Total employees: ethnic minorities (%)

Caucasian

Women

Men

Asian

Women

Men

Latino

Women

Men

Black

Women

Men

Other ethnicities 40

Women

Men

Executives and senior managers: women (%)

Executives and senior managers:  
ethnic minorities (%)

Caucasian

Women

Men

Asian

Women

Men

Latino

Women

Men

Black

Women

Men

30

39

61

15

46

13

5

8

15

6

9

8

4

5

3

1

2

19

16

84

15

69

7

2

5

5

1

4

3

1

2

31

41

59

15

45

14

5

9

16

6

9

8

4

5

3

1

2

22

19

81

16

65

9

3

6

6

1

5

3

1

2

30

41

59

14

45

14

5

9

16

6

10

8

4

5

3

1

2

24

22

78

17

61

10

3

7

6

2

4

4

2

2

30

41

59

14

45

14

5

9

16

6

10

8

3

5

3

1

2

26

24

76

19

57

12

4

8

8

2

6

4

2

2

30

42

58

14

44

14

5

9

17

7

10

8

3

5

3

1

2

27

26

75

19

56

11

4

7

8

2

6

5

2

3

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics table continues on page 68

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
67

U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics,39 cont.

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Executives and senior managers:  
ethnic minorities (%), cont.

Other ethnicities 40

Women

Men

First- and mid-level managers: women (%)

First- and mid-level managers: ethnic minorities (%)

Caucasian

Women

Men

Asian

Women

Men

Latino

Women

Men

Black

Women

Men

Other ethnicities 40

Women

Men

Professionals: women (%)

Professionals: ethnic minorities (%)

Caucasian

Women

Men

Asian

Women

Men

Latino

Women

Men

1

0

0

29

32

68

16

52

12

5

7

12

5

7

7

3

4

1

0

1

33

35

65

18

47

16

7

9

11

4

7

1

0

1

30

33

67

16

50

12

5

8

12

6

7

7

3

4

1

1

1

33

36

64

18

46

16

7

9

11

4

7

1

0

1

31

34

66

16

50

12

5

7

12

6

7

8

3

4

2

1

1

33

38

62

18

45

16

7

9

12

4

8

1

0

0

30

35

65

16

50

12

5

7

14

6

8

7

3

4

2

1

1

34

39

61

18

43

17

7

10

12

4

8

1

0

1

31

36

64

15

49

12

5

7

14

7

7

7

3

4

2

1

1

33

39

61

18

43

17

7

10

13

5

8

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics table continues on page 69

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
68

U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics,39 cont.

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Professionals: ethnic minorities (%), cont.

Black

Women

Men

Other ethnicities 40

Women

Men

7

4

4

2

1

1

7

4

4

2

1

1

7

4

4

2

1

2

7

4

4

3

1

2

7

3

4

3

1

2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

global employee diversity 39

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Total employees

48,456

45,047

44,679

42,628

37,498

Women

Men

Gender data not available

U.S.

Women

Men

Gender data not available

Other Americas

Women

Men

Gender data not available

Africa

Women

Men

Gender data not available

Asia

Women

Men

Gender data not available

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

10,858

10,034

31,616

27,363

154

101

22,048

21,465

22,165

20,814

19,627

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

5,413

5,090

15,372

14,512

29

25

3,411

3,446

894

925

2,484

2,484

33

37

4,228

3,606

715

612

3,507

2,991

6

3

10,128

7,145

2,846

2,493

7,202

4,621

80

31

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
69

global employee diversity table continues on page 70

global employee diversity,39 cont.

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Australia

Women

Men

Gender data not available

Europe

Women

Men

Gender data not available

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,411

2,170

580

533

1,825

1,634

6

3

1,636

1,504

410

381

1,226

1,121

0

2

Service station employees

3,298

3,591

3,476

5,108

5,097

Women

Men

Gender data not available 41

Union-represented U.S. employees (%)

Total employees – women (%)

Mid-level management – women (%)

Senior leadership – women (%)

Executive leadership – women (%)

—

—

—

11

25

19

18

14

—

—

—

11

25

19

19

16

—

—

—

2,521

2,170

2,125

1,732

462

1,195

11

25

20

19

15

12

25

22

20

16

12

27

23

21

17

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C2

SOC5: C3

SOC5: C3

SOC5: C3

supply chain 42 

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Total goods and services spending  
(billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based 
businesses (billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based 
small businesses (billions of dollars)

Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based 
woman- and minority-owned businesses  
(billions of dollars)

$24.8 

$25.1 

$27.1

 $20.9 

$18.1

$11.2 

$11.6 

$13.2

$11.0 

$9.8

$1.6 

$1.7 

$1.7

 $1.3 

$1.1

$0.6 

$0.7 

$0.6

 $0.4 

$0.4

SOC14: 
A1

SOC14: 
A1

SOC14: 
A1

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
70

workforce health and safety 43

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Total Recordable Incident Rate  
(incidents per 200,000 work-hours)

Workforce (excluding COVID-19)

0.13

0.13

0.15

0.13

0.20

Employees (excluding COVID-19)

0.09

0.07

0.13

0.11

0.17

Contractors (excluding COVID-19)

0.15

0.15

0.16

0.14

0.20

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

SHS3: C1

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

Workforce (including COVID-19)

Employees (including COVID-19)

Contractors (including COVID-19)

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From 
Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours)

Workforce (excluding COVID-19)

Employees (excluding COVID-19)

Contractors (excluding COVID-19)

Workforce (including COVID-19)

Employees (including COVID-19)

Contractors (including COVID-19)

Days Away From Work Rate  
(incidents per 200,000 work-hours)

0.09

0.08

0.10

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.08

0.07

0.08

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.10

0.17

0.08

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.37

0.42

0.35

0.13

0.13

0.13

1.27

1.66

1.11

0.44

0.42

0.44

0.16

0.27

0.12

0.81

1.05

0.73

Workforce (excluding COVID-19)

0.016

0.016

0.019

0.025

0.031

Employees (excluding COVID-19)

0.012

0.013

0.033

0.023

0.055

Contractors (excluding COVID-19)

0.017

0.017

0.014

0.026

0.023

SHS3: C1

SHS3: C1

Workforce (including COVID-19)

Employees (including COVID-19)

Contractors (including COVID-19)

Number of serious injuries 44

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

Number of work-related fatalities

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.253

0.160

0.330

0.210

0.223

0.144

26

2

24

6

2

4

35

3

32

0

0

0

13

2

11

2

0

2

13

3

10

1

1

0

21

3

18

2

0

2

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

SHS3: C1

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

 Indicates restatement of data.

N/A = not applicable

workforce health and safety table continues on page 72

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
71

workforce health and safety,43 cont.

Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related 
employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million 
work-hours)

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

SHS3: C1

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

SASB

Ipieca

Workforce

Employees

Contractors

Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related 
incidents with employee or contractor fatalities  
per 100 million work-hours)

Motor Vehicle Crash Rate (workforce vehicle 
incidents per million miles driven) 45

Number of Process Safety Tier 1 events  
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance) 46

Upstream

Downstream & Chemicals

Midstream

 Indicates restatement of data.

1.32

0.00

0.43

0.29

0.59

1.77

0.00

0.00

1.05

0.00

1.17

0.00

0.56

0.00

0.78

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

1.32

0.00

0.43

0.29

0.59

EM-EP-320a.1 
EM-RM-320a.1

SHS3: C1

0.04

0.02

0.02

0.02

0.03

22

14

7

1

16

9

6

1

15

10

4

1

15

33 EM-EP-540a.1

SHS6: C1

7

7

1

18

10

5

environment

chevron resources

SASB

Ipieca

ESG qualitative metrics

greenhouse gas emissions

Discuss the company’s GHG emissions strategy, 
performance and capital allocation related to 
addressing GHG emissions, including methane  
and flaring.

chevron.com/climatechangeresilience2021

EM-EP-110a.3 
EM-MD-110a.2 
EM-RM-110a.2

biodiversity

Description of environmental management policies 
and practices for active sites.

chevron.com/biodiversity

EM-EP-160a.1 
EM-MD-160a.1

emergency preparedness

Describe strategies and policies for preventing 
accidental releases of hydrocarbons and other 
materials to the environment.

chevron.com/oemsoverview
chevron.com/emergencypreparedness

CC1: C1 
CC1: C2 
CC1: C3 
CC1: C4 
CC2: C1 
CC2: C2 
CC2: C3 
CC5: C2 
CC7: C3

ENV6: C1 
ENV6: C4

ESG qualitative metrics table continues on page 73

footnotes are on pages 74–75

chevron.com/sustainability
72

ESG qualitative metrics, cont.

social

safety and health

Describe the company’s approach to health  
and safety for employees and contractors, 
transport safety, and systems to incorporate a 
culture of safety throughout the company.

human rights

Discussion of engagement processes, due 
diligence practices, remedy mechanisms and 
supplier communications, with respect to human 
rights, Indigenous rights and security.

diversity and inclusion

Describe policies, programs and procedures 
related to Human Capital Management 
and to promoting diversity, inclusion and 
nondiscrimination. 

community relations

Describe the company’s social investment 
strategies, programs, community and stakeholder 
Grievance Mechanisms, and policies for addressing 
nonretaliation and nondiscrimination when 
regarding grievances.

governance

governance strategy

chevron resources

SASB

Ipieca

chevron.com/oems
chevron.com/oemsoverview

EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-EP-540a.2 
EM-MD-540a.4 
EM-RM-320a.2

SHS1: C2
SHS1: C3
SHS4: A1

chevron.com/humanrights
chevron.com/supplierletter

EM-EP-210a.3

chevron.com/diversityandinclusion
chevron.com/proxystatement

SOC1: C1 
SOC1: C2 
SOC2: C1 
SOC3: C1

SOC5: C1

chevron.com/sustainability/social
chevron.com/grievancemechanism

EM-EP-210b.1

SOC8: C1 
SOC12: C1 
SOC13: C1

chevron resources

SASB

Ipieca

Discussion of the company’s purpose, governance 
policies, the Board of Directors’ oversight of  
ESG issues, and how ESG risks and opportunities 
are identified and assessed.

chevron.com/proxystatement
chevron.com/annualreport
chevron.com/thechevronway
chevron.com/investors/corporate-governance

GOV1: C1
GOV1: C3
GOV1: C5

business conduct

Description of the company’s Code of Conduct, 
values, principles, and anti-corruption and  
bribery polices for the company and its suppliers, 
and processes for reporting unethical or  
unlawful behavior.

lobbying and political contributions

Description of the company’s approach to 
advocacy and lobbying, political contributions 
reporting, and discussion of positions related  
to ESG issues.

cybersecurity

Description of the company’s approach to
managing cybersecurity issues.

chevron.com/businessconductethicscode

EM-EP-510a.2

GOV3: C1 
GOV3: C3

chevron.com/politicaloutreach 
chevron.com/climatelobbying

EM-EP-530a.1
EM-RM-530a.1

GOV5: C1 
GOV5: C2 

chevron.com/cybersecurity

SHS7: C3

chevron.com/sustainability
73

notes to pages 59 through 72

  1  See “equations” section, Portfolio Carbon Intensity, pages 76–78. 

  2  See “equations” section, Upstream Carbon Intensity, pages 78–79.

  3  See “equations” section, Refining Carbon Intensity, page 79.

  4  See “equations” section, Enabled Reductions, page 80. Variability  

in Enabled Reductions may occur due to Chevron’s current practice  
of reporting offsets in the calendar year in which they were retired.  
See footnote 21 for more information on offsets.

total Scope 2 equity emissions, as first reported in Chevron’s Corporate 
Sustainability Report for each reporting year. Annual third-party verification 
does not include Chevron’s equity-share emissions for CPChem.

 18  Chevron calculates emissions from third-party use of sold products in 

alignment with methods in Category 11 of Ipieca’s Estimating Petroleum 
Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (2016). Emissions 
are based on aggregate production, throughput and sales numbers that 
include renewable fuels.

  5  Unless otherwise noted, Scope 1 and Scope 2 data collected as of  

January 31, 2022. Data include estimates.

 19  Carbon capture, utilization and storage includes both CO2 sold to third 

parties and CO2 (and other gas) injected for carbon storage.

  6  Scope 1 includes direct emissions. For reporting, Chevron includes indirect 
sources of GHG emissions within Scope 1 that are outside of the traditional 
Scope 1 definition such as GHG emissions from processes like drilling 
and completions, and tolling agreements up to the point of third-party 
custody transfer of the oil or gas product. Direct GHG emissions related to 
production of energy in the form of electricity or steam exported or sold 
to a third party are included in the reported Scope 1 emissions to align 
with Ipieca’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry 
(2020). Chevron’s Scope 1 includes emissions of six Kyoto GHGs – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, 
perfluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons.

  7  Calculation methods for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions are based  
on the American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2009)  
or, where relevant, local regulatory reporting methodologies.

  8  When a nonoperated joint venture (NOJV) provides consolidated emissions 
data, Chevron seeks to allocate its equity share of those emissions to the 
most representative scope and GHG based on best available knowledge of 
the NOJV’s operations.

  9  Consistent with our financial accounting, Venezuela NOJV emissions are not 

included for 2021 emissions reporting.

 10  We provide methane emissions data and intensity performance as a mass 
of methane as well as its conversion under the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) 100-year global warming 
potential (GWP) to a CO2e. Although we strive to provide consistent data  
from our operated and nonoperated assets, some nonoperated assets may  
provide their data only on a CO2e basis. Given the common industry practice  
of using the AR4 100-year GWP, we have assumed that nonoperated assets 
that did not provide methane mass data use a 100-year GWP of 25. We 
continue to work with our joint-venture partners to provide information  
on a standardized basis to increase transparency. 

  11  Downstream includes emissions from refineries, terminals, marketing and 
distribution, including renewable fuels. Chemical and base oil facilities 
located within refineries are included in refinery emissions.

 12  Chemicals includes emissions from stand-alone chemical, additive and 

lubricant facilities.

 13  Chevron Phillips Chemical Company (CPChem) LLC data collected as  

of April 7, 2022.

 14  Other emissions include GHG emissions from Corporate Aviation, Chevron 

Environmental Management and Real Estate Company, energy management 
and power from Chevron Pipeline and Power, and the North American  
Data Center.

 15  Exported emissions are direct GHG emissions related to production of 

energy in the form of electricity or steam that are exported or sold to a 
third party. Direct GHG emissions related to production of energy in the 
form of electricity or steam exported or sold to a third party are included  
in the reported Scope 1 emissions for each segment.

 16  Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from imported electricity and steam. 
CO2, CH4 and N2O are accounted for in Chevron’s Scope 2 emissions. 
Scope 2 emissions are accounted for using the market-based approach 
as described in the World Resources Institute’s GHG Protocol Scope 2 
Guidance (2015), including calculating Scope 2 emissions net of contractual 
instruments such as renewable energy credits (RECs).

 17  The scope of verification for reporting year 2021 includes portfolio carbon 

intensity, upstream carbon intensities, refining carbon intensity and enabled 
reductions, as well as total Scope 1, total Scope 2 and Scope 3 Category 11 
use of sold products on both an equity-share and operational-control basis. 
For 2017–2020, third-party verification covers Chevron’s total Scope 1 and 

 20  RECs are credits generated from renewable electricity generation within the 
United States that are retired by Chevron. Reported Scope 2 emissions are 
net of contractual instruments such as RECs.

 21  Offsets are credits generated from the avoidance or reduction of GHG 

emissions or the removal of GHGs from the atmosphere that are purchased 
or developed and then retired by Chevron, excluding RECs. Includes  
offsets retired in compliance programs. For programs with multiyear 
compliance periods, offsets are reported in the calendar year they are 
retired, except for 2017, where offsets were apportioned to the compliance 
obligation for that year. 

 22  Total Energy Consumption includes energy generated from Chevron’s 

operations and imported energy. Exported energy is not subtracted from 
the total.

 23  Manufacturing Energy Index (MEI) (Refining) is an analysis of Chevron’s 

refining energy performance based on the Solomon Energy Intensity Index 
methodology. Chevron’s MEI includes the refining assets at Chevron’s 
operated and nonoperated joint-venture refineries. 

 24  2021 Upstream Energy Intensity reflects continued improvements in 

Chevron’s calculation methodology.

 25  Pipeline Energy Intensity covers assets operated by Chevron Pipeline 

Company. Pipeline Energy Intensity for 2020 and 2021 does not include 
legacy assets acquired from Noble Midstream Partners LP.

 26  Chevron’s Non-Manufacturing Energy Index includes operations from 

Chevron’s chemicals and additives, products and services, and lubricants 
businesses. It reflects the energy required to produce Chevron’s products 
compared with the energy that would have been required to produce the 
same products in 1992 (the index’s base year).

 27  For compiling and reporting air emissions data, Chevron follows regulatory 

definitions of VOC. SOX emissions include SO2 and SO3, reported as 
SO2-equivalent. NOX emissions include NO and NO2 (reported as NO2-
equivalent) and exclude N2O.

 28  SOX and VOC emissions increased in 2021 due to production activity 

increases and inclusion of first full-year emissions of newly acquired and 
recommenced assets. 

 29  Fresh water withdrawn from the environment is defined per local legal 
definitions. If no local definition exists, fresh water is defined as water 
extracted, directly or indirectly, from surface water, groundwater or 
rainwater that has a total dissolved solids concentration of less than 
or equal to 2,000 mg/L. Fresh water withdrawn does not include 
effluent or recycled/reclaimed water from municipal or other industrial 
wastewater treatment systems, as this water is reported under nonfresh 
water withdrawn. Nonfresh water withdrawn could include: seawater; 
brackish groundwater or surface water; reclaimed wastewater from 
another municipal or industrial facility; desalinated water; or remediated 
groundwater used for industrial purposes. Produced water is excluded 
from fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed and nonfresh water 
withdrawn. Water quantities may be determined using direct measurement 
techniques or engineering estimation methods.

 30  Refining includes data from refineries, including chemical and base oil 

facilities located within refineries. 

 31  Other includes, but is not limited to, chemical and lubricant facilities, as  

well as Chevron Environmental Management and Real Estate Company.

 32  Chevron calculates fresh water withdrawn intensity for Upstream using 

gross operated production.

 33  Chevron calculates fresh water withdrawn intensity for refining using  

total refinery inputs, which comprise all feeds into the refinery. This  
includes purchased crudes for crude units and third-party feeds for other 
processing units.

chevron.com/sustainability
74

forward-looking statements warning

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES 
LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 

This report of Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking statements relating to 
Chevron’s operations and energy transition plans that are based on management’s 
current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and 
other energy-related industries. Words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “expects,” 
“intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “advances,” “commits,” “designs,” “drives,” “aims,” 
“forecasts,” “projects,” “believes,” “approaches,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,” 
“positions,” “pursues,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” 
“trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on track,” “goals,” “objectives,” “strategies,” 
“opportunities,” “poised,” “potential,” “ambitions,” “aspires” and similar expressions 
are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.

These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to  
certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the com-
pany’s control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results 
may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking 
statements. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking 
statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Unless legally required, 
Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those in the forward-looking statements are: changing crude oil and natural 
gas prices and demand for the company’s products, and production curtailments 
due to market conditions; crude oil production quotas or other actions that might be 
imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing 
countries; technological advancements; changes to government policies in the 
countries in which the company operates; public health crises, such as pandemics 
(including coronavirus (COVID-19)) and epidemics, and any related government 
policies and actions; disruptions in the company’s global supply chain, including 
supply chain constraints and escalation of the cost of goods and services; changing 
economic, regulatory and political environments in the various countries in which 
the company operates; general domestic and international economic and political 
conditions, including the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the global 
response to such conflict; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins; 
actions of competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses; timing of crude 
oil liftings; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; 
development of large carbon capture and offsets markets; the results of operations 
and financial condition of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners and equity 
affiliates, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic; the inability or failure of the 
company’s joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development 
activities; the potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing 
and future crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the 
development, construction or startup of planned projects; the potential disruption 
or interruption of the company’s operations due to war, accidents, political events, 
civil unrest, severe weather, cyber threats, terrorist acts, or other natural or human 
causes beyond the company’s control; the potential liability for remedial actions 
or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; 
significant operational, investment or product changes undertaken or required by 
existing or future environmental statutes and regulations, including international 
agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit 
or reduce greenhouse gas emissions; the potential liability resulting from pending 
or future litigation; the company’s future acquisitions or dispositions of assets 
or shares or the delay or failure of such transactions to close based on required 
closing conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions or 
impairments; government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations, taxes 
and tax audits, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms, or restrictions on scope of 
company operations; foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; 
material reductions in corporate liquidity and access to debt markets; the receipt of 
required Board authorizations to implement capital allocation strategies, including 
future stock repurchase programs and dividend payments; the effects of changed 
accounting rules under generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by 
rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to identify and mitigate the risks and 
hazards inherent in operating in the global energy industry; and the factors set forth 
under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 20 through 25 of the company’s 2021 
Annual Report on Form 10-K and in subsequent filings with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in 
this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.

 34  Chevron reports fresh water withdrawn and consumed in water-stressed 
regions according to the World Resources Institute’s definition and 
categorization of “baseline water stress.” Baseline water stress measures 
the ratio of total water withdrawals to available renewable surface and 
groundwater supplies. Water withdrawals include domestic, industrial, 
irrigation and livestock consumptive and nonconsumptive uses. Available 
renewable water supplies include the impact of upstream consumptive 
water users and large dams on downstream water availability. Higher  
values indicate more competition among users.

  Chevron’s fresh water withdrawn and consumed in high and extremely  

high-water-stressed areas excludes: Chevron’s Fuels & Lubricants business 
and the Technology, Projects and Services (TP&S) organization. Freshwater 
withdrawals for the Fuels & Lubricants business and TP&S are minimal  
(0.7% of the total) compared with the overall use in the corporation.  
For purposes of this reporting, Chevron categorizes all of the water 
withdrawn and consumed by Chevron’s Mid-Continent business unit as 
being in a high-stress or extremely high-stress region.

 35  Oil concentration is determined by the sampling of effluent streams, using 
methods required or recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, 
where applicable. Chevron reports the total cumulative amount of oil 
discharged to surface water excluding spills, which are reported separately.

 36  Chevron reports petroleum spills to land and water to conform to the 2020 
Ipieca Reporting Guidance. Spills to land and water that are greater than or 
equal to one barrel are included. Spills to secondary containment, chemical 
spills and spills due to sabotage are excluded.

 37  To conform to the 2015 and 2020 Ipieca Reporting Guidances, and where 
appropriate information and data exist, our hazardous waste numbers 
starting in 2015 exclude remediation waste generated; disposed of; and 
recycled, reused or recovered. Hazardous waste amounts are quantified 
using methods required or recommended by regulatory agencies or 
authorities, where applicable. In other instances, similar methods are 
used, including direct measurement onsite or at the point of shipping, 
engineering estimates and process knowledge. Chevron follows the 
regulatory definitions of hazardous waste applicable to the jurisdictions 
in which we operate, including de minimis specifications (below which 
hazardous waste quantities do not need to be reported).

 38  The 2021 data are based on information received from government entities 

and recorded internally as of April 7, 2022.

 39  Global employee diversity and U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission (EEOC) percentages have been rounded to the nearest  
whole number. Global data are as of December of the year identified. 
Although gender is not binary, gender is currently reported in binary 
(men, women) terms to align with U.S. government reporting regulations. 
Our most recently filed Federal Employer Information Report EEO-1 is 
available for download at chevron.com/eeo-1. EEO-1/EEOC gender and 
ethnicity counts differ from those in the Global Employee Diversity table 
due to differences that may vary from other methodologies. For the Global 
Employee Diversity table, “gender data not available” means data were  
not collected or employee chose not to disclose, and service station 
employee data are not included unless specifically stated. 

 40  Ethnicities with representation of less than 2%, such as, but not limited to, 

Native Americans, Pacific Islanders, and Two or More Races.

 41  This is not a precise year-over-year comparison. For 2020, some but not  
all employees for whom gender data were not available were counted  
as men or women using visual identification in accordance with U.S. EEOC 
guidelines. For 2021, visual identification was not used and is only used  
in the U.S. EEOC Statistics table.

 42  Data collected for year 2021 on February 7, 2022. For year 2020,  

data collected as of February 24, 2021. For year 2019, data collected  
as of January 23, 2020. For years 2017–2018, data collected as  
of February 20, 2019.

 43  This section reflects Chevron data collected as of March 14, 2022. Health and 
safety performance rates include both injury and illness-related incidents.

 44  Serious injuries are injuries that result in significant disfigurement, or 

typically result in permanent or long-term impairment of an internal organ, 
body function or body part.

 45  Data include catastrophic and major incidents only, as defined in 

the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Land 
Transportation Safety Report 365.

 46  Process Safety Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment (LOPC) events are 

unplanned or uncontrolled releases resulting in consequences equivalent 
to those specified by the American National Standards Institute/American 
Petroleum Institute (ANSI/API) Recommended Practice (RP) 754 and  
IOGP Report 456: Process Safety Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators.

chevron.com/sustainability
75

 
equations

portfolio carbon intensity, grams CO2e/megajoule

 i [(GHG intensity)i * (Energy)i ] –   j(Net GHG removals)j
 (Energy)i

Where: (GHG intensity)i is the simplified value chain GHG intensity of marketed  
product i, (Net GHG removals)j is the net volume of GHG emissions stored, or 
offset, and (Energy)i is the energy of the marketed product i.

portfolio carbon intensity methodology note

introduction

The portfolio carbon intensity methodology is designed to 
facilitate carbon intensity accounting of a company’s portfolio. 
It uses a representative value chain that includes emissions 
associated with bringing products to market, including the 
Scope 3 emissions from their use. The PCI methodology 
facilitates transparency in calculations and data with  
information taken from financial statements and emissions 
disclosures. This approach enables comparison of companies 
that may participate in different parts of the value chain and  
the use of real data. 

Intent: The PCI methodology provides a framework for 
transparent and consistent comparisons of the mix of energy 
products provided by a company, inclusive of elements of  
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. The methodology is broadly 
applicable to oil and gas companies involved in exploration  
and production, refining, or marketing activities.

PCI definition: Estimated energy-weighted average GHG 
emissions intensity from a simplified value chain from the 
production, refinement, distribution and end use of marketed 
energy products per unit of energy delivered.

Units: Grams of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHG emissions 
per megajoule of energy delivered (g CO2e/MJ) on a higher-
heating-value basis to align with prior frameworks on gas value 
chain emissions and with heating values commonly used in 
commercial contracts.†

Scope: The PCI is calculated on an annual basis as the weighted-
average GHG intensity of energy delivered across gas, natural 
gas liquid (NGL), oil, biofuel, hydrogen and lower carbon power 
products. Carbon removals are deducted from total lifecycle 
emissions estimates.

The following energy products (i) are included in the  
PCI methodology:

•  Gas: piped gas, LNG and third-party-traded volumes 

•  Natural gas liquids: NGLs from Upstream, refining and third-

party-traded volumes 

•  Oil: crude oil, refined products (gasoline, diesel, jet fuel,  
fuel oil and other petroleum products) and third-party- 
traded volumes 

•  Biofuels: ethanol, renewable diesel, biodiesel, sustainable 

aviation fuel and renewable natural gas

•  Hydrogen: gray hydrogen, blue hydrogen and green hydrogen 

that are externally marketed 

•  Lower carbon power: external sales of wind, solar and 

geothermal power 

The following removals (j) are included in the PCI methodology 
calculation:

•  Carbon capture, utilization and storage removes CO2 either 
directly from the atmosphere or from streams that would be 
released to the atmosphere. It does not include CO2 produced 
from naturally occurring reservoirs that is used for enhanced  
oil recovery.

•  High-quality offsets include nature-based solutions.

For traditional hydrocarbon products (gas, NGL and oil), 
marketed volumes are based on the business segment 
(production, refined products or marketing) with the largest 
overall commodity volume, inclusive of all traded volumes.

Chemicals and other business lines that do not primarily supply 
energy products are excluded from this calculation.

†  Several prior product-intensity frameworks have used lower heating value for intensity calculations.

chevron.com/sustainability
76

equations, cont.

portfolio carbon intensity methodology note, cont.

methodology and data sources 

Traditional hydrocarbon products: The intent of the frame-
work is to capture value chain emissions associated with the 
maximum hydrocarbon product volume for a company among 
its production, refining and marketing activities. For all products 
that a company produces or refines, the PCI methodology uses 
the company’s equity GHG emissions and corresponding GHG 
intensity. To estimate the emissions for marketed products that 
the company does not produce or refine, the PCI methodology 
uses industry-average segment factors from the International 
Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook. Hydrocarbon transporta-
tion emissions are estimated in the PCI using IEA World Energy 
Outlook estimates for transportation emissions from oil and  
gas. Emissions associated with end use of marketed products 
are based on industry-standard combustion factors and assume 
all sold energy products are combusted, although this is not  
the case (e.g., plastics and lubricants). The graphic on page 78  
is a depiction of the value chain approach for the refined-
product value chain. 

Biofuels, hydrogen and lower carbon power: GHG emissions 
are calculated based on third-party lifecycle assessments 
and the energy provided by Chevron in the most recent year. 
Lifecycle assessment data sources include California Air 
Resources Board (CARB) Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) 
Pathway Certified Carbon Intensities for similar feedstocks and 
pathways, a Hydrogen Council report on a lifecycle assessment 
for hydrogen decarbonization pathways, and harmonized 
lifecycle assessments of electricity generation from the National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory and the Intergovernmental  
Panel on Climate Change Working Group 1.

The model does not adjust for the energy efficiency gains 
associated with some applications of electricity and hydrogen 
relative to existing hydrocarbon infrastructure. For example, 
CARB estimates that energy provided as electricity to an electric 
vehicle is 3.4 times more efficient than energy provided by 
gasoline to an internal combustion engine. Model updates could 
be made in the future, if supported by the end use of electricity 
or hydrogen products. 

Inputs are collected from financial disclosures and public  
GHG reporting, with the exception of the biofuels component. 
Biofuel volumes are based on purchase data for ethanol, 
renewable diesel, sustainable aviation fuel, and biodiesel and 
production volumes for renewable natural gas in the United 
States, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand and Australia. 
Volumes from international GS Caltex operations in South  
Korea are assumed to be zero. For 2016–2021, aggregate  
biofuel volumes used in the PCI calculation are 60,000, 61,000,  
62,000, 68,000, 61,000 and 70,000 barrels of oil-equivalent  
per day, respectively. Biofuel carbon intensity values are based 
on CARB LCFS default pathway values. For 2016–2021, the 
weighted-average biofuel carbon intensity values used in the 
PCI calculation were 52, 52, 51, 50, 48 and 47 grams carbon 
dioxide-equivalent GHG emissions per megajoule, respectively.

CCUS: Net GHG removal emissions associated with CCUS 
represent the volume of emissions that would be permanently 
sequestered underground or utilized in other products  
with a deduction for supply chain emissions associated with  
capture, transport or storage. CCUS projects that reduce  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions would reduce the production, refining  
or other sectoral intensity and would not be double-counted  
as removals; for example, CO2 captured by an integrated CCS  
plant would already be accounted for in the facility’s Scope 1 
emissions intensity. 

Offsets: Offsets that are retired by the company or on behalf 
of customers for use of product provided by the company are 
deducted from the total emissions in the metric. 

Improvements over time: Methodologies and emissions factors 
may be updated in future years to reflect additional information 
or data that become available. For example, updates may 
include updated industry averages, primary data from third-
party producers/refiners and adjustments to energy efficiency 
assumptions, if warranted, based on the end-use applications  
for volumes of energy marketed by the company.

chevron.com/sustainability
77

equations, cont.

portfolio carbon intensity methodology note, cont.

the graphic below depicts the PCI approach  
for the refined-product value chain 

activity  

% of total

production 

transportation  

refining  

transportation  

end use  

10%

< 1%

15%

< 1%

75%

company  
data

industry-  
average  
data

Percentages shown are based on data from IEA, World Energy Outlook 2018, November 2018, iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2018.

upstream carbon intensity, kilograms CO2e/boe

(

(

upstream oil intensity

Direct emissions  
(Scope 1)

+

Indirect emissions associated  
with imported electricity  
and steam (Scope 2)

–

Emissions associated  
with exported electricity  
and steam

Net production of liquids

upstream gas intensity

Direct emissions  
(Scope 1)

+

Indirect emissions associated  
with imported electricity  
and steam (Scope 2)

–

Emissions associated  
with exported electricity  
and steam

Net production of gas (including LNG and GTL)

)

)

Allocated to liquids on a 
production basis (boe)

Allocated to gas on a 
production basis (boe)

upstream flaring intensity

Direct flaring emissions as CO2e (Scope 1)

Net production of gas and liquids (including LNG and GTL)

LNG = liquefied natural gas

GTL = gas-to-liquid

chevron.com/sustainability
78

equations, cont.

upstream carbon intensity equations, cont.

upstream methane intensity

Direct methane emissions as CO2e (Scope 1)

Net production of gas and liquids (including LNG and GTL)

LNG = liquefied natural gas

GTL = gas-to-liquid

Emissions reported are net (Scope 1 and 2). The emissions included in the metrics generally represent Chevron’s equity share of emissions from Upstream, including LNG, which  
are emissions from operated and nonoperated joint-venture assets based on Chevron’s financial interest. For reporting, Chevron includes indirect sources of GHG emissions  
within Scope 1 that are outside of the traditional Scope 1 definition, such as GHG emissions from processes like drilling and completions, and tolling agreements up to the point  
of third-party custody transfer of the oil or gas product. For oil and gas production intensity metrics, production is aligned with net production values reported in the Chevron 
Corporation Supplement to the Annual Report, which represent the company’s equity share of total production after deducting both royalties paid to landowners and a 
government’s agreed-upon share of production under a Production Sharing Agreement. Chevron’s equity-share emissions include emissions associated with these excluded 
royalty barrels in accordance with Ipieca guidance. Also in accordance with Ipieca guidance, Chevron’s equity-share emissions do not include emissions associated with royalty 
payments received by the company. Allocation of emissions between oil and gas is based on the fraction of production represented by liquids or gas. Flaring and methane 
intensities use the total of liquids and gas production. Oil and gas production intensities use liquids production and natural gas production, respectively.

refining carbon intensity, kilograms CO2e/boe 

(

Refinery direct  
GHG emissions  
(Scope 1) 

+

Refinery indirect GHG emissions 
associated with imported  
electricity and steam (Scope 2)

+

Third-party processing emissions 
associated with imported  
feedstocks* (a type of Scope 3) 

–

Emissions associated  
with exported electricity and  
steam (a type of Scope 3) 

)

Crude + Other feedstocks, including bio-based feedstocks 

The refining carbon intensity (RCI) metric provides a measure of GHG released during the 
transformation of raw materials into refined products. 

The RCI is throughput-based and includes GHG emissions from Chevron’s own refining 
operations and estimates of emissions associated with third-party processing of imported 
feedstocks such as hydrogen.*†

The metric is on an equity basis.

*  Emissions from third-party processing of imported feedstocks are estimated using information including supplier data, industry segment averages and engineering estimates. 
Emissions included in the calculation represent refinery processing only and do not include terminals or chemical, additive, base oil and lubricant facilities not integrated  
into a refinery. Feedstocks include hydrogen and intermediate products that will be further refined or used in conversion units. Feedstocks do not include natural gas used  
as fuel or products intended solely for blending into finished products. Feedstocks are assessed on a net basis (imports minus exports). 

†  Emissions associated with the production of hydrogen can account for 25% of total refinery emissions, and more than half of the hydrogen used in U.S. refining is imported  
from a third party. (“Available and emerging technologies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the petroleum refinery industry,” US EPA Office of Air and Radiation  
2010 and U.S. Energy Information Administration, EIA-820 Annual Refinery Report and EIA-810 Refinery and Blender Net Input). 

chevron.com/sustainability
79

equations, cont.

enabled reductions, million tonnes CO2e/year

 i [(GHG intensityfossil fuel – GHG intensityi) * (Energy)i ] +   j(Net GHG removals)j

Where: (GHG Intensity)fossil fuel is the average intensity of displaced fossil fuel that is calculated in  
the PCI methodology, (GHG intensity)i is the simplified lifecycle GHG intensity of energy producti,  
(Energy)i is the energy of the marketed low-carbon producti (e.g., biofuels, hydrogen), and  
(Net GHG removals)j is the net volume of GHG emissions stored.

enabled emissions reductions methodology note

Enabled emissions reductions are the estimated avoided 
emissions relative to fossil fuel use primarily associated  
with biofuels, hydrogen, CCUS and offsets that the company  
has marketed in the most recent calendar year, regardless  
of whether the company retained rights to the emissions 
reduction attributes. 

Over time, new energy products may be added to the calcu-
lation, along with associated volume information. Avoided 
emissions associated with natural gas-fired power generation  
via co-generation or coal-fired power generation displacement 
are excluded from this calculation for purposes of simplicity. 

For biofuels and hydrogen products, the enabled emissions 
reductions are calculated based on the lifecycle GHG savings 
relative to the same amount of energy provided by diesel 
fuel. Where appropriate, energy efficiency factors are used to 
calculate the volumes of displaced fossil fuels. More details on 
emissions factors and calculation assumptions are available in 
the PCI methodology note (see pages 76–78).

Net GHG removal emissions associated with CCUS and offsets 
represent the volume of emissions that would be sequestered 
or utilized in other products. GHG emissions associated with 
CCUS or offset value chains would be netted from the reductions 
associated with the activity. 

chevron.com/sustainability
80

about this report

This report contains forward-looking statements relating  
to Chevron’s operations and energy transition plans that are 
based on management’s current expectations, estimates  
and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other 
energy-related industries. These statements are not guarantees 
of future conduct or policy and are subject to certain risks, 
uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the 
company’s control, including government regulation and oil  
and gas prices. See Forward-Looking Statements Warning  
on page 75 of this report.

This report covers our owned and operated businesses and  
does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers, 
contractors and partners unless otherwise noted. In the case  
of certain joint ventures for which Chevron is the operator, we  
exercise influence but not control. Thus, the governance, proc-
esses, management and strategy for those joint ventures are 
known to differ from those detailed in this report. All financial 
information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the 
development, implementation or continuation of any program, 
policy or initiative discussed or forecasted in this report, 
may differ materially in the future. As with any projections or 
estimates, actual results or numbers may vary. Many of the 
standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue 
to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed 
to be reasonable at the time of preparation but should not be 
considered guarantees. The statements of intention in this report 
speak only as of the date of this report. Chevron undertakes  
no obligation to update publicly any statements in this report.

This report contains information from third parties, such as 
the World Resources Institute and IEA. Chevron makes no 
representation or warranty as to the third-party information. 
Where necessary, Chevron received permission to cite third-
party sources, but the information and data remain under the 
control and direction of the third parties. Where Chevron has 
used information, it has noted the source. This report contains 
terms used by Ipieca and SASB, as well as information about how 
the disclosures in this report align with the recom mend ations 
of Ipieca and SASB. In doing so, Chevron does not intend to 
endorse or adopt and is not endorsing or adopting these phrases 
or recommendations. In using these terms and referencing the 
recommendations, Chevron is not obligating itself to use the 
terms in the way defined by Ipieca and SASB, nor is it obligating 
itself to comply with any specific recommendations or to provide 
any specific disclosure. Chevron makes no representation or 

warranty as to Ipieca or SASB’s use or definition of specific terms 
or recommendations. For example, with respect to the use of  
the term material, individual companies are best suited to deter-
mine what information is material, under the long-standing U.S. 
Supreme Court definition of that term, and whether to disclose 
this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange financial filings.

As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as  
“the company,” “the corporation,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” 
may refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries 
or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole, but unless stated 
otherwise they do not include “affiliates” of Chevron – i.e., those 
companies generally owned 50 percent or less. All of these terms 
are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise 
description of any of the separate companies, each of which 
manages its own affairs.

Further, as used in this report, the term “project” may describe 
new Upstream development activity, including phases in a  
multi phase development, maintenance activities, certain existing 
assets, new investments in Downstream & Chemicals capacity, 
investment in emerging and lower carbon intensity activities,  
and certain other activities. All of these terms are used for  
con venience only and are not intended as a precise description  
of the term “project” as it relates to any specific government  
law or regulation. In addition, for Chevron, “lower carbon energy” 
includes a variety of existing and emerging energy solutions 
and services, including traditional energy sources linked with 
renewables or abatement technologies or measures, carbon 
capture and sequestration, offsets, blue and green hydrogen, 
geothermal, and nuclear. 

If you have questions about this report, please contact:  
Strategy and Sustainability 
Chevron Corporation 
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, Building A
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA

Produced by Corporate Strategy and Sustainability, Chevron Corporation

Design Sequel Studio, New York, sequelstudio.com

Printing Lithographix, Inc., California, lithographix.com

Photo credits Cover and first spread: Ken Childress; 3: Richard Morgenstein;  
10: Karasai Kunzharikov; 13, 32, 58: Jim Erickson; 45: Steve Babuljak;  
back cover: David Roberts

chevron.com/sustainability
81

 
Human ingenuity has the power to solve any challenge and overcome any 
obstacle. Meeting the world’s growing energy needs demands pursuit of 
innovations and advancements that deliver a better future for all.

learn more
chevron.com/sustainability

chevron.com/sustainability/performance

Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com

© 2022 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386S (5-22) (500)

