2010 | 2011 sustainability report

 DELIVERING
toDAY.

INVESTING
for our future.

 
aBouT ThIS REpoRT

the title of this 2010|2011 sustainability report sums up our company’s mission in 
just six words: “Delivering today. investing for our Future.” We share this theme with 
Duke energy’s 2010 annual report.

 this report is organized for the summary reader as well as for those seeking 

more detailed information. Key features: 
 ■

 ■

 ■

 ■

Jim rogers’ letter provides an update on recent progress and what lies ahead. 
the sustainability plan and progress at a Glance provides a two-page overview 
of our results against our goals.
A more in-depth review of performance is organized by our five areas of focus.
throughout the report, we feature several Duke energy employees who hold 
themselves personally accountable for sustainable outcomes.

Again this year, we offer print and Web versions of our Sustainability Report. The 
printed report includes the issues that are most important to our stakeholders and to 
us. We denote online-only content, including mouse-over definitions, with this icon: 
Duke energy international supplements this report with its own publication 

covering our latin american operations, available at www.duke-energy.com. 

We welcome your feedback on this report, our sustainability progress or related 

issues. email sustainability@duke-energy.com.

Contents 

Duke Energy at a Glance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   3

Letter from the Chairman  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   5

What Matters Most  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   9

External Viewpoints  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   10

Sustainability Plan and Progress at a Glance  .  .  .  .  .  .   12

Innovative Products and Services   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   14

Environmental Footprint  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21

Quality Workforce  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   32

Strong Communities  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   36

Governance and Transparency  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   39

Global Reporting Initiative  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   42

Independent Review  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   43

CompaNy pRofILE

Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the United 
States. Our regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers 
located in five states in the Southeast and Midwest, representing a population of 
approximately 12 million people. Our commercial power and international business 
segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and 
Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the 
United States.

2010 | 2011  
SuSTaINaBILITy RECoGNITIoN

 ■ In 2010, Duke Energy was named to 

the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
Index (DJSI World). We were also 
named to the North American DJSI 
for the fifth year in a row. 

ouR mISSIoN

At Duke Energy, we make people’s lives better by providing gas and electric services 
in a sustainable way — affordable, reliable and clean. This requires us to constantly 
look for ways to improve, to grow and to reduce our impact on the environment.

 ■ Corporate Responsibility magazine 
named Duke Energy to its 2011 
“100 Best Corporate Citizens List.” 

ouR VaLuES

 ■ Safety — We put safety first in all we do.

 ■ Caring — We look out for each other. We strive to make the environment 

and communities around us better places to live.

 ■ Integrity — We do the right thing. We honor our commitments. We admit 

when we’re wrong.

 ■ openness — We’re open to change and to new ideas from our co-workers, 
customers and other stakeholders. We explore ways to grow our business 
and make it better.

 ■ passion — We’re passionate about what we do. We strive for excellence. 

We take personal accountability for our actions.

 ■ Respect — We value diverse talents, perspectives and experiences. 

We treat others the way we want to be treated.

 ■ In 2010, Duke Energy was ranked 
among the top 100 companies in 
the world for sustainability by the 
NASDAQ OMX Group and CRD 
Analytics. 

 ■ Duke Energy is listed on the 

Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index 
— a ranking of the largest U.S. 
companies that publicly engage 
on the issue of climate change.

Additional awards and recognition earned 
by the company and its leaders are 
mentioned throughout this report.

DukE ENERGy aT a GLaNCE: yEaR-END 2010

3

BUsIness seGMent

overvIew

u.S. fRaNChISED  
ELECTRIC aND GaS

GeneratIon DIversIty
(percent owned capacity)

  1% Wind/Hydro

  2% Natural Gas/Oil

27% Nuclear

70% Coal

49% 
  Coal 
  Nuclear  
19% 
  Natural Gas/Fuel Oil    20%
  12% 
  Hydro 

CUstoMer DIversIty
(in billed GWh sales)

  1% Wind/Hydro

  2% Natural Gas/Oil

27% Nuclear

70% Coal

  Residential 
  Commercial  
  Industrial 
  Wholesale/Other 

34% 
32% 
  25% 
  9% 

CommERCIaL  
powER 

GeneratIon DIversIty
(percent owned capacity)

  1% Wind/Hydro

  2% Natural Gas/Oil

27% Nuclear

70% Coal

41% 
44% 
  12% 
  3% 

  Coal 
  Natural Gas 
  Renewable 
  Other 

DukE ENERGy 
INTERNaTIoNaL

GeneratIon DIversIty
(percent owned capacity)

  1% Wind/Hydro

  2% Natural Gas/Oil

27% Nuclear

70% Coal

  Hydro 
  Oil Diesel  
  Natural Gas 

  69% 
20% 
  11% 

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G) consists of  
Duke Energy’s regulated generation, electric and gas 
transmission and distribution systems. USFE&G’s generation 
portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different 
operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide 
energy at the lowest possible cost. 

Electric operations
 ■ Owns approximately 27,000 megawatts (MW) of  

generating capacity.

 ■ Service area covers about 50,000 square miles with 

an estimated population of 12 million.

 ■ Service to approximately 4 million residential, commercial 

and industrial customers.

 ■ Over 152,200 miles of distribution lines and a 20,900-mile 

transmission system.

Gas operations
 ■ Regulated natural gas transmission and distribution 
services to approximately 500,000 customers in 
southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky.

Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants, 
primarily located in the Midwest, and a renewable energy 
portfolio. Commercial Power’s subsidiary, Duke Energy Retail, 
serves retail electric customers in Ohio with generation and 
other energy services at competitive rates. Commercial Power 
also includes Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), an 
on-site energy solutions and utility services provider. 
 ■ Owns and operates a balanced generation portfolio  
of approximately 7,550 net MW of power generation 
(excluding wind and solar generation assets).

 ■ Duke Energy Renewables currently has 986 MW of wind 
energy in operation and over 5,000 MW of wind energy 
projects in development, and owns 16 MW of commercial 
solar capacity.

Duke Energy International (DEI) operates and manages power 
generation facilities and engages in sales and marketing of 
electric power and natural gas outside the U.S. DEI’s activities 
target power generation in Latin America. DEI also has an 
equity investment in National Methanol Co., a Saudi Arabian  
regional producer of MTBE, a gasoline additive.
 ■ Owns, operates or has substantial interests in 

approximately 4,200 net MW of generation facilities.

 ■ About 70 percent of DEI’s generating capacity is 

hydroelectric.

 
4

I’m aCCouNTaBLE

Roberta Bowman was named Duke Energy’s 

first chief sustainability officer five years ago. 

In the following Q&A, she reflects on the 

company’s sustainability progress and the 

outlook for the future.

roberta bowman, 
Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer

In the company’s first sustainability report in 
2007, you said that “sustainability is a journey, 
not a destination.” What progress has Duke 
Energy made on this journey?

I think we’ve made good progress building 
the framework for sustainability at Duke 

a:
Energy . We have a common language and plan that 
aligns our various divisions and businesses, and 
unifies our employees. And, we’ve recruited and 
trained a group of creative and committed 
sustainability leaders throughout the company . 
Combine this sustainability “infrastructure” with 
Jim Rogers’ personal leadership and commitment 
— and we’ve built a strong foundation for success . 
Even more exciting — we are starting to see 
employee-led innovations that are making a real 
difference — increasing efficiency, reducing waste 
and saving money . You’ll read about some of them 
in this report .

What are some of your “lessons learned” from 
Duke Energy’s experience with sustainability? 
First, the motivating power of bold goals . 
a:
We’ve had healthy debate over how much 
“stretch” to put in our goals . Clearly, incremental 
improvements are important . But, we’ve found that 
breakthrough ideas and performance come from 
stretch goals . For example, in 2007 we set a safety 
goal of moving the Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 
for our employees from second quartile to top 
decile by 2012 . Some of our managers and safety 
professionals didn’t think it could be done. And yet, 
we’re on track to achieve that goal, ending 2010 with 
our best-ever TICR results .

And second, it’s the outcome — not the noun — 
that matters . It doesn’t matter whether people call 

it “sustainability,” “corporate responsibility,” “lean 
six sigma,” “life-cycle accounting,” “externalities,” 
“social impact” or what have you . What’s important 
is improving our decisions and operations by consid-
ering a broad range of costs and impacts . 

Has your thinking about sustainability changed 
over the past five years? If so, how?

I used to think that there were two kinds of 
companies — those that committed to 

a:
sustainability and those that didn’t . Today, I don’t 
believe companies have a real choice .

We are seeing more and more interest in measures 
of sustainability performance by the financial 
community and other key stakeholders . They see 
these measures as predictors of management 
quality and overall company performance . 

Sustainability is also important in the global 
competition for talent . Employees entering the 
workforce today “get” sustainability, and they want 
to work for companies that share that core value .

And third, sustainability is about risks and oppor-
tunities . With the world’s population expected to 
exceed 9 billion by 2050 and the constraints of finite 
natural resources, companies need to improve their 
efficiency in order to stay in business.

What do you foresee as the company’s greatest 
sustainability challenges going forward?
Our sustainability challenges are our 
a:
business challenges . Balancing the need for 
affordable, reliable and clean energy is central to our 
mission, but the business environment and external 
events influence our decisions and timing. In the 
aftermath of the cascading disasters in Japan, we 

don’t yet know how those events will affect the 
economic recovery or our future energy options .

Environmental policy and the availability of natural 
resources also have an impact on our business . 
Global climate change has grabbed the headlines, 
but other issues — including water quality and 
scarcity — are influencing our operations.

An important point to recognize is that many of the 
issues we face today are interconnected . Energy . 
Water . Food . Security . Sustainability helps us see 
these connections, and develop integrated solutions .

What do you see as the emerging skills and 
competencies of the future?

I think collaboration is becoming a core 
competency . Some of the most interesting 

a:
and workable solutions are coming from public/
private partnerships . Business has historically been 
an engine of innovation . But, to be successful, we 
need clear policy signals from government and the 
“pull” of the consumer . Working with stakeholders 
will continue to be an important skill for the future . 

And, it wouldn’t hurt to know how to play chess. 
Chess requires you to think three and four steps 
ahead, to play offense and defense, and to develop 
new strategies if you find one avenue blocked. 

I think the business model of the future is going to 
be much more like chess than checkers .

For more Q&As with Roberta Bowman, please visit 
our Sustainability Report online. 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
 
 
 
 
LETTER fRom ThE ChaIRmaN

5

Dear Stakeholders: This year marks a major 

milestone in our journey as a sustainable 

company. It’s been five years since Duke 

Energy merged with Cinergy, and I became 

chief executive of the combined company. 

This is also our fifth sustainability report. 

Jim rogers, 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

This five-year mark is a good time to 
reflect on our progress. It comes at an 
important point in time — as Duke Energy 
prepares to merge with Progress Energy, 
and our industry continues to navigate 
the challenges of economic recovery and 
environmental constraints. 

Our commitment to sustainability helps 

us achieve the critical balance among 
people, the planet and profits. As our 
business challenges and priorities change, 
our five focus areas keep us on the right 
path for sustainable decisions and results. 
Our direction was affirmed in 2010, 
when Duke Energy earned a place on the 
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. 
Only 15 electric utilities worldwide were 
named to the elite World Index. We were 
also named to the North American DJSI 
for the fifth year in a row.

On the facing page, Roberta Bowman, 

Duke Energy’s chief sustainability officer, 
discusses our sustainability journey over 
the past five years. I’ll review where we 
are today, and what lies ahead. 

DELIVERING ToDay. 
INVESTING foR ouR fuTuRE.

This Sustainability Report shares a 
common theme with our Annual Report: 
“Delivering Today. Investing for Our 
Future.” I think it captures our dual respon-
sibilities — to deliver affordable, reliable 
and increasingly clean energy today, while 
making the investments needed to ensure 
a sustainable future.

In a nutshell, sustainability is all 
about innovation and accountability. 
It means the relentless pursuit of 
productivity gains in the generation, 
delivery and use of energy.

It means engaging our employees, 

and unlocking their ideas. 

It means managing our business 
responsibly and transparently, from the 
financial ledger to the plant floor. 

And it means caring about the environ-

ment, and the communities we serve.

REaL joBS  
IN a joBLESS RECoVERy

Duke Energy currently offers some of the 
most competitive electric rates in the U.S. 
We benefit today from the investment 
decisions made decades ago. 

Now, we are entering a new building 
cycle — replacing aging energy facilities, 
improving productivity and efficiency, 
meeting stricter environmental standards 
and diversifying our fuel sources. 

I believe that investing in new energy 

infrastructure and related technologies can 
be the spark that ignites the next engine of 
American prosperity — bringing jobs and 
building energy security. 

Government has an important role 
to play in job creation, for sure. But, it 
is private industry that will supply the 
fuel and turbines for new power plants, 
fiberglass for windmills, photovoltaic 
cells for solar panels 
, batteries for 
electric vehicles and the infrastructure 

 by the Political 

for a smart grid — all providing good 
jobs. A 2009 study 
Economy Research Institute estimates that 
a $1 billion investment in energy-related 
infrastructure can create from approxi-
mately 15,000 to more than 20,000 jobs.

a TEChNoLoGy CompaNy 
DISGuISED aS a uTILITy

At the turn of the 20th century, electric 
companies were the innovators of the 
world, bringing electricity and all that it 
enabled to customers and communities. 
It was a life-changing — and economy-
changing — transformation. 

The 21st century electric company is a 
technology company disguised as a utility. 
We identify, integrate and scale up new 
technologies that make electricity cleaner, 
more reliable and affordable. New, more 
efficient generating plants, seamlessly 
integrated into a smart grid, will create 
the foundation for a low-carbon future. A 
switch to electric vehicles will drive entire 
new industries and new jobs. A trend 
toward more efficient buildings and appli-
ances will create opportunities for jobs 
and investment as well. 

Duke Energy is an industry leader in 

this value chain of sustainable innovation. 
Here are some highlights: 

pRomoTING ENERGy EffICIENCy

One way we are improving productivity 
and holding down costs is by promoting 
energy efficiency.

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

 
6

Our regulatory framework for energy 

efficiency differs from traditional utility 
conservation programs in that we are 
rewarded not only for selling power 
— but also for helping customers save it. 
The savings are measured and verified by 
a third party, to ensure we are producing 
real results.

Our energy efficiency model has been 
approved in North Carolina, South Carolina 
and Ohio. While we have not yet filed for  
a similar framework in Kentucky, we do 
have conservation programs in place.

electronic devices to use energy more 
efficiently. And, it will give our customers 
the information, choices and control to 
make wiser energy decisions, save energy 
and save money — in a way that works 
best for them. 

Since 2008, we have installed 
approximately 140,000 “smart” electric 
meters and nearly 100,000 digital gas 
meters for customers in Ohio. We have 
also installed thousands of digital meters in 
the Carolinas, mostly in the Charlotte area.

After we received preliminary approval 

makING ENERGy CLEaNER 

we will produce energy more efficiently, 
retire older, less-efficient plants, and 
reduce our carbon footprint — for good.

Nuclear power 
As I write this letter, we continue to 
monitor the disasters in Japan — an 
unprecedented earthquake, a massive 
tsunami and the resulting emergency at 
the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear station.

The nuclear energy industry worldwide 

works cooperatively and continuously to 
share experience and improve safety. We 
have long recognized that a problem at 
one nuclear unit can affect us all. And, 
while it will take time to better understand 

in Indiana, the state’s utility commission 
ordered all utilities to offer a set of standard 
efficiency programs. We withdrew our 
previous proposal and submitted new 
plans for programs beyond those 
mandated by the state. We are awaiting 
the commission’s approval. 

Our efficiency programs are already 
helping customers better manage their 
energy use and create sustainable 
energy savings.

For example, in 2010, Duke Energy 
distributed more than 10 million compact 
fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs) to our 
residential electric customers. By replacing 
their incandescent bulbs with CFLs, 
customers save money and energy. 

Also in 2010, we announced Envision: 

Charlotte, the largest commercial-scale 
community application of smart-energy 
technology in the U.S. to date. This public/
private partnership aims to reduce overall 
energy use in some 70 uptown Charlotte 
buildings by up to 20 percent over the 
next five years. 

ImpRoVING RELIaBILITy 

Though the reliability of our power delivery 
system has improved substantially in 
recent years, we did not meet our aggres-
sive 2010 outage-reduction goals. Stormy 
weather had a major impact — lightning 
strikes increased by 80 percent in the 
Carolinas and 46 percent in the Midwest, 
compared to 2009. 

Weather aside, in order to sustain 

higher levels of reliability in the long 
run, our electric power grid needs a 
major upgrade. That’s where smart 
grid technology comes in. 

Moving from analog to digital 

technology will equip our delivery system 
to detect and resolve power problems, 
and prevent and shorten outages. It will 
enable our buildings, appliances and 

Weather extremes in 2010 tested  
our generating fleet and 
operations team, and they 
responded with excep-
tional performance. Due to 
higher electricity demand 
from customers, the fleet 
emitted about 100 million 
tons of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) in 2010 — up from 
94 million tons in 2009, 
when the economy was 
weaker. Our carbon inten-
sity (tons of CO2 emitted 
per net megawatt-hour of 
electricity produced) also 
increased slightly — from 
0.59 in 2009 to 0.60 
in 2010 — due to those 
same factors. However, 
based on 2009 data (the 
latest available), while 
Duke Energy was the 
fifth largest generator of 
megawatt-hours among 
U.S.-based, investor-
owned utilities, we were 
only the 11th highest in U.S. carbon inten-
sity, due to our diverse generation mix.

By modernizing 
and diversifying 
our generating 
fleet now, we will 
produce energy 
more efficiently, 
retire older, less-
efficient plants, 
and reduce our 
carbon footprint – 
for good .

the causes and effects 
of the Japanese nuclear 
crisis, Duke Energy and 
the U.S. nuclear industry 
are already taking actions 
to ensure the continued 
safety of our plants. On 
page 26, our chief genera-
tion and nuclear officer, 
Dhiaa Jamil, a 30-year 
veteran of the nuclear 
power industry, answers 
questions about the 
Japanese crisis. 

It is impossible to 
predict what impact the 
events in Japan will have 
on the burgeoning nuclear 
renaissance in the U.S. 
and worldwide. But, I 
believe nuclear power will 
remain an important part 
of our energy mix, because 
it is the only technology 
that allows us to generate 
electricity 24/7 with zero 

We remain committed to reducing our 

environmental footprint, and are taking 
actions today for a cleaner energy future. 
As I mentioned earlier, the power 
industry’s infrastructure is aging. About 
70 percent of the approximately 450 
major U.S. electric power generating units 
began operating more than 30 years 
ago. Over the next decade, we expect 
new Environmental Protection Agency 
regulations may make almost a third of all 
U.S. coal plants uneconomical to operate. 
On the Duke Energy system, we will 
need to replace most of the power plants 
operating today by 2050. By modernizing 
and diversifying our generating fleet now, 

greenhouse gases. 

At Duke Energy, we have nearly 40 
years of experience safely and efficiently 
operating nuclear power plants. In fact, 
in 2010, we set a new company record 
for capacity factor 
 — approximately 
95.9 percent — which translates into 
lower costs and cleaner power for our 
customers.

Cleaner coal

Almost half of the power produced in 

the U.S. comes from coal. It is plentiful 
and affordable; our challenge is to find 
ways to burn it more cleanly. 

We have invested approximately $5 
billion over the last decade to significantly 
reduce SO2 and NOx emissions. Over the 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT past five years, we have reduced our sulfur 
dioxide emissions by 73 percent, and 
nitrogen oxides emissions by 52 percent. 
Our Edwardsport plant in Indiana will 

be one of the world’s cleanest coal-fired 
plants when it is completed in 2012. It 
will also be the largest power plant in the 
world to use advanced technology to gasify 
coal, strip out the pollutants and burn the 
cleaner gas to produce power — reducing 
carbon emissions per megawatt-hour by 
nearly half. The plant is more than 80 
percent complete, including engineering, 
procurement and construction. 

But Edwardsport has not been without 

its challenges. 

While construction remained 
on schedule in 2010, the scale and 
complexity of the project has pushed 
estimated costs from $2.35 billion to 
$2.88 billion. We have filed a proposal 
with the Indiana Utility Regulatory 
Commission to cap Edwardsport construc-
tion costs to be passed on to customers 
at $2.72 billion plus financing costs, and 
to lower the overall customer rate increase 
related to the project.

We expect a decision from the 
commission in 2011 regarding the cost 
increase and the cost-cap proposal.

Our reputation was tested in 2010 

with a controversy over the hiring of 
a former Indiana Utility Regulatory 
Commission attorney and related issues 
in Indiana. We immediately launched an 
investigation after concerns were raised, 
and cooperated fully with external inves-
tigations. As we learned more, we took 
swift, decisive and appropriate policy and 
personnel actions. You can read more 
about our response to this matter on pages 
40 and 41. We are working hard to rebuild 
the trust of our Indiana stakeholders.

In North Carolina, the modernization 
of our Cliffside coal plant is on schedule for 
completion in 2012. A new, highly efficient 
unit will replace 1,000 megawatts of older 
coal-fired generation, including four units 
at Cliffside. Emission control systems 
will remove 99 percent of sulfur dioxide 
emissions, 90 percent of nitrogen oxides 
emissions and 90 percent of mercury, 
while the plant generates more than twice 
the electricity as before.

Natural gas

Natural gas is becoming an increas-
ingly popular fuel for electric generation, 
particularly as an alternative to coal. This 
is primarily due to lower prices driven by 

new discoveries of shale gas reserves, as 
well as lower emissions. We are building 
two natural gas-fired generating plants in 
North Carolina — Buck and Dan River 
— and plan to retire two 1940s- and 
1950s-vintage coal units at each site.

The gas-fired plant at Buck will be 
completed and begin operation in 2011. 
Construction began on Dan River in 
January 2011, and it is scheduled to 
go on line in late 2012.

Renewable energy

Duke Energy now has nearly 1,000 

megawatts (MW) of commercial wind 
energy on line, with two major projects 
— Top of the World in Wyoming and Kit 
Carson in Colorado — completed at the 
end of 2010. We also grew our commer-
cial solar business in 2010 with the 
14-MW Blue Wing Solar Project in Texas 
and two smaller farms in North Carolina. 
We expect to complete additional solar 
facilities by the end of 2011.

On the regulated side, we had more 
applicants than we could accommodate 
for our distributed solar program in North 
Carolina. Factories, businesses and 
schools are renting out their property and 
rooftops to Duke Energy for solar energy 
installations. The panels can produce 
8 megawatts of electricity — enough to 
serve about 1,300 homes. In addition, 
we purchase solar power from third 
parties, like the SunEdison solar farm in 
Davidson County, N.C., one of the largest 
in the country. 

Duke Energy also buys renewable 
power generated from landfill methane 
gas, which we expect to play an increas-
ingly important role in meeting North 
Carolina’s Renewable Energy and Energy 
Efficiency Portfolio Standard.

promoting electric vehicles

Electric vehicles represent an important 

innovation both in cleaner transportation 
and in electricity storage and use. We 
are collaborating with manufacturers of 
vehicles, batteries and charging stations 
to promote the long-term adoption of 
plug-in electric vehicles. 

Duke Energy is a board member 

of the Electric Drive Transportation 
Association and helped launch 
www.GoElectricDrive.com 
 in 2010. 
The association’s website offers informa-
tion on advancements in electric vehicle 
technologies, purchase incentives and 
environmental benefits.

7

Some of our employees in Indiana and 

North Carolina are also participating in 
pilot programs so we can better under-
stand the user experience and the impact 
of electric vehicles on our power grid. 
We’re also “greening” our fleet with more 
hybrid and electric vehicles, consistent 
with our 2009 Clinton Global Initiative 
commitment to make those our only new 
purchases by 2020. 

Scaling new technology with China

I believe that China has developed the 
“intellectual property” behind scaling new 
technologies. That’s why we are working 
with Chinese energy companies to share 
information on clean energy technologies 
and explore joint projects. The end game, 
of course, is to apply what we learn to 
better serve our customers with affordable, 
reliable and increasingly clean electricity. 

In 2010, we signed an agreement with 

BYD, a Chinese manufacturer of electric 
vehicles, to collaborate on energy storage, 
electric vehicle and digital grid technolo-
gies, and to look for opportunities for joint 
business development.

Since 2009, we’ve partnered with 
ENN Group, one of China’s largest private 
energy companies, on clean energy 
technologies, including solar and other 
low-carbon innovations. We also continue 
to explore clean energy technologies  
with Huaneng Group, China’s largest 
power generator.

maINTaINING  
fINaNCIaL STRENGTh

Our financial results in 2010 exceeded 
expectations. Extreme weather grabbed 
the headlines, but masked the story of 
operating excellence by our people and 
power plants. 

We ended 2010 with adjusted diluted 

earnings per share of $1.43, above our 
original adjusted diluted earnings guidance 
range of $1.25 to $1.30, and up from 
$1.22 per share in 2009.

Our total shareholder return (TSR) — 
the change in stock price plus dividends 
— was 9.5 percent in 2010, once again 
outperforming our peers. The TSR for the 
Philadelphia Utility Index of 20 utilities 
(including Duke Energy) was 5.7 percent 
in comparison. 

Duke Energy has also maintained one 

of the electric utility industry’s strongest 
balance sheets during the economic 

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

8

recession. That has allowed us to access 
capital at very low interest rates. 

Quality operations also contributed 
to the bottom line. In addition to record-
setting nuclear performance, our 
regulated fossil (coal and natural gas) 
generation fleet met high energy demand 
with excellent commercial availability 
of approximately 88.7 percent in 2010. 
Our nonregulated Midwest generation 
fleet also experienced superior operational 
results, with commercial availability of 
89.7 percent.

You’ll find more detail on our financial 

and operating performance in our 2010 
Annual Report and Form 10-K. 

woRkING ToGEThER

If I’ve learned anything as a utility CEO 
for more than 20 years, it’s that we can’t 
go it alone. As a company, we cannot be 
sustainable unless we continue to engage 
all of our stakeholders — communities, 
customers, employees, investors, partners, 
NGOs (nongovernmental organizations), 
suppliers, regulators and policymakers. 

Engaging our workforce

We achieve business success by 
tapping the diversity and talents of our 
employees. In 2010, we harvested a 
number of exciting innovations from 
employee-driven sustainability projects. 
Throughout this report, you’ll find 
examples of employees who are account-
able in various ways for helping us do 
business in a sustainable way.

We are making progress on safety. 

Employees achieved our lowest-ever 
Total Incident Case Rate (the number 
of OSHA-recordable incidents per 100 
employees) in 2010, and employee TICR 
has improved by 40 percent since 2006.
But no degree of success is good 
enough unless every one of our workers 
goes home safe at the end of the day. 
Tragically, five contractors died from 
injuries sustained while working for 
Duke Energy in 2010. 

In late 2010, we commissioned a 
team of senior leaders to address the 
issue of contractor safety. This task force 
will help us move to the next level in our 
safety culture — where all employees 
and all contractors go home safely to 
their families.

partnering with communities

The importance of supporting our 
communities is magnified in these tough 
economic times. Charitable giving from 
The Duke Energy Foundation and the 
company, along with employee and retiree 
donations and the value of their volunteer 
time, totaled nearly $29 million in 2010.
In addition, Duke Energy’s economic 
development team helped state, regional 
and local government officials attract 
almost $5.8 billion in capital investments 
and nearly 14,000 new jobs to our five 
service areas. 

Charlotte, our headquarters city, 
is reinventing itself as a hub of energy 
innovation. 
 The 16-county Charlotte 
region now has more than 240 energy-
related companies employing about 
27,000 workers.

participating in public policy 

It’s been a challenge to lead a 
company through an era of regulatory 
uncertainty related to climate change and 
other energy policy issues. It’s like playing 
a high-stakes game with no rules — and 
you don’t find out until the end if you’ve 
won or lost. 

Having spent a great deal of time and 

energy advocating for fair climate legisla-
tion, I’ve been disappointed that Congress 
hasn’t passed a bill. Our country needs a 
sound, clear and consistent energy policy. 
As an industry, we need to know the 
rules on carbon emissions, new nuclear 
development and a host of other issues 
that affect the investments we make for 
the future. 

I applaud President Obama’s call 
earlier this year for a review of federal 
regulations to avoid excessive, inconsis-
tent and redundant rules, and promote 
economic growth. With a clear road map, 
our industry can accelerate its efforts to 
replace aging plants, update the power 
grid, develop clean energy technologies 
— and create jobs in the process.

foCuSED oN ThE fuTuRE

On Jan. 10, 2011, we announced 
that Duke Energy would be merging 
with Progress Energy 
Raleigh, N.C. 

, based in 

Duke and Progress share a common 

view of the future. We’ve both been 
working to improve energy efficiency 
and develop renewable energy, and to 
keep nuclear power a viable option. Both 

companies have spent billions modernizing 
our plants and making them cleaner for our 
customers. For years, we’ve shared work 
crews and equipment in the aftermath of 
major storms. We’ve also worked side-by-
side at the policy level on key federal and 
state legislation. 

This merger will create the largest 
electric utility in the U.S. But “bigger” 
is not our goal. We want to be the best. 
We will have the size, scale and financial 
strength to modernize our operations while 
holding down costs for our customers. 
And, we will have the humility and agility 
to foresee — and seize — new opportuni-
ties that occur during periods of transfor-
mation and change. 

In the months ahead, we will be 
working to secure the necessary approvals 
and develop plans to integrate our compa-
nies. Once the merger is completed, I will 
become the executive chairman of Duke 
Energy, and Bill Johnson, the current CEO 
of Progress Energy, will become our CEO. 
I assure you that sustainability will 
continue to be a priority of the new Duke 
Energy. In fact, it is key to our drive for 
productivity gains and an important 
element of what will become our new 
corporate culture. In the pages that follow, 
you’ll read more about the progress Duke 
Energy is making in our five sustainability 
focus areas. Following the merger, we will 
revisit and reset our goals to reflect the 
combined company. 

Let me take this opportunity to thank 
Roberta Bowman, our chief sustainability 
officer, who will be retiring from Duke 
Energy later this year after 25 years of 
service. We simply could not have come 
this far this fast without a leader of her 
caliber guiding our company’s sustain-
ability efforts. 

Finally, I want to thank all of our 
employees and stakeholders who have 
been part of this journey to become a 
more sustainable company. Your ideas, 
comments and feedback have made 
us better. 

Sincerely,

Jim Rogers 
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
April 6, 2011

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
 
whaT maTTERS moST

9

Duke Energy’s approach to sustainability focuses on the issues that are  
most material to our stakeholders and to us. This table represents our current 
view of our most material issues and their life cycle phases. The issues will 
continue to evolve as the environment in which we operate changes.

IssUe lIfe CyCle

eMerGInG

DevelopInG

MatUre

IssUes of HIGH ConCern  
to stakeHolDers anD DUke enerGy

Affordable and reliable energy

Air quality

Climate change

Coal combustion residuals

Economic development/jobs

Employee engagement and development

Energy efficiency

Ethics

Mountaintop-removal coal mining

New cleaner-coal and nuclear generation

Nuclear safety in light of the emergency  
in Japan  NEW

Nuclear waste

Philanthropy/volunteerism

Political involvement   NEW

Protecting natural/cultural resources   EXPANDED

Reduce, reuse, recycle

Renewables

Safety

Shareholder return/financial success

Smart grid/cyber security   EXPANDED

Supply chain

Water

new 

We have added the issue to our listing this year .

eMerGInG 

eXpanDeD 

 We have expanded the name to include additional  
aspects of the issue .

 The issue is becoming a high concern to 
stakeholders and Duke Energy .

DevelopInG 

 Solutions and projects are being proposed,  
piloted or implemented .

MatUre 

 The issue is well known and best practices  
are becoming commonplace .

weB eXClUsIve Content

 ■ Duke Energy’s Sustainability Filter© 
 ■ Management Approach to Sustainability

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

10

ExTERNaL VIEwpoINTS

DELIVERING ToDay. Duke Energy’s mission is to provide affordable, reliable and 
increasingly clean energy to customers. We asked two customers — one served by our 
regulated business and one served by our commercial business — to tell us how we are 
delivering for them today.

David Holthouser  
Director of Facilities 
Management 

Davidson College

Lynn Wilson 
Senior Vice President of 
Communications and Investor 
Relations 

Black Hills Corp .

Davidson College, a nationally recognized liberal arts college located 20 miles 
north of Charlotte, N.C., is served by our regulated electric power business. 

How has Duke Energy partnered with your organization? 

The Davidson College campus uses a sophisticated energy management 
system that is wired to most campus buildings . We use the system to 

a:
manage our peak energy use and demand .

We were in the process of analyzing the Baker Sports Complex’s operating 
infrastructure — including its HVAC system, controls and lighting — when 
Duke Energy offered to include the sports facility in its Energy Smart Building pilot 
program . The program uses digital metering and communications technology to 
give customers more information, options and control over their energy use . The 
college signed on with Duke Energy and the pilot program, allowing us to integrate 
information from the retrofitted facility with Davidson’s centralized energy 
management system . We also enrolled in PowerShare® — a demand response 
program that rewards businesses for adjusting energy consumption levels during 
peak time periods — and accepted more than $75,000 in energy efficiency 
incentives to retrofit the sports complex with up-to-date equipment and controls.

What have been the benefits?

The retrofit allows Davidson College to fully maximize the advantages of 
digital technologies . The real-time metering data and building automation 

a:
systems enable us to manage our energy use more effectively than before . This 
has led to a measurable impact on energy efficiency — we have seen an average 
improvement of 30 percent over readings taken before the upgrades . The college 
has seen similar results for chilled water and steam consumption .

In addition, this program has allowed us to increase our already strong commit-
ment to reducing peak demand . For two decades, Davidson has tried to manage 
its peak demand by shifting loads across time periods . This partnership with 
Duke Energy has allowed us to do that even more effectively .

How might Duke Energy meet your needs in the future?

Davidson College staff have long been interested in data — and this 
a:
partnership has provided valuable data . We’re excited to see where 
Duke Energy is going with dashboarding, and thinking about how the college 
can synchronize that with Duke Energy going forward.

Davidson is grateful to have been a part of this pilot, as it has provided opportu-
nities for learning on both sides — consistent with our educational mission .

Black Hills Corp. and its utility Cheyenne Light, Fuel & Power have 20-year 
agreements with Duke Energy to purchase power from two of our commercial 
wind farms in Wyoming. 

Why did Cheyenne Light, Fuel & Power choose to buy power from 
Duke Energy’s wind farms?

In all of our projects, we look for strong partners to help us fulfill our 
customer-focused mission of “Improving Life with Energy .” With Duke’s 

a:
reputation as a leader in the energy industry, we knew we would be working with 
a partner who would ensure that the Happy Jack and Silver Sage wind projects 
were completed in a timely, cost-effective manner — and operated efficiently 
to deliver safe and reliable energy to our utilities .

How do the wind farms benefit your customers and your community?

The Happy Jack and Silver Sage wind farms allow us to cost-effectively 
a:
bring a renewable source of energy to our customers as part of a diverse 
generation portfolio . Wyoming currently has no mandates for renewable energy . 
These wind projects demonstrate to our customers, communities and regulators 
that we are willing to contract for and/or invest in renewable energy sources and 
new technologies — in a way that mitigates the rate impact on our customers .  
In addition, these wind farms give us the opportunity to educate our customers, 
employees and shareholders about the benefits, operational challenges and  
costs of renewable energy .

What advice do you have for Duke Energy as we develop future wind farms? 

At Black Hills Corp. and at all of our utilities, we believe it is important  
a:
to deliver energy to our customers from a diverse portfolio of resources . 
As part of that commitment, we work continuously to identify new technologies 
and energy sources that can reduce our impact on the environment, keep us  
in compliance with regulations and help us maintain reasonable rates for 
our customers . 

All of our decisions take into account the financial impact on customers and the 
operational impacts on our utility systems . We believe this is something all energy 
businesses should think about, in light of changing environmental regulations 
and as new renewable energy technologies become more available, reliable 
and cost-effective .

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
 
 
 
 
 
11

INVESTING foR ouR fuTuRE. To make the investments needed to ensure 
a sustainable future, Duke Energy works with experts to better understand emerging trends 
and opportunities. We asked two of them to share their thoughts on electric vehicles and 
technology partnerships with Chinese energy companies.

John Waters 
Owner and President 

Waters & Associates Consulting

Dr. S. Ming Sung 
Chief Representative for 
Asia-Pacific

Clean Air Task Force

John Waters is an entrepreneur specializing in the development of sustainable 
products and solutions. He launched Bright Automotive Inc., creator of the IDEA 
plug-in hybrid electric fleet vehicle. 

Dr. Sung is well known in the U.S. and China for his expertise in clean energy 
technologies and large energy project development. He has helped Duke Energy 
form relationships with Chinese energy companies. 

What are the advantages of electric vehicles?

In a word, freedom ... As an example, Charles Kettering, Edison’s 
contemporary, added electrons to the first internal combustion engine 

a:a:
car in 1911, replacing the inefficient hand-crank starter — and liberating women 
to drive the new “horseless carriages .” 

We have now advanced to electric vehicles that will bring the consumer radical 
new freedoms — in efficiency, cost, maintenance, performance, sound, 
communication and safety . The electric power train is more than three times as 
efficient as internal combustion, and the potential supply of electrons is infinite. 

What are the key challenges to widespread adoption?

My answer may be a bit tainted, as I was involved in GM’s EV1 program  
in the mid-90s. Its history was captured in the documentary “Who Killed 

a:
the Electric Car?” Entire industries can be threatened by this radical improvement 
in transportation, and government subsidies often confuse the competitive  
market and impede true innovation . Widespread adoption will occur when the 
American consumer realizes — and is willing to pay for — the electric vehicle’s 
inherent simplicity, performance, safety, convenience, and low-cost repair 
and maintenance . 

Electric vehicles generate value at multiple levels: homeland security, quality of 
life, sustainability, clean-tech innovation and cost savings . Bottom line: People 
will buy products at a tangible value. Automakers will need to offer valuable 
electric vehicles, and that requires a revolution in thinking, design and production . 

What advice do you have for Duke Energy, as we prepare for potential 
widespread use of electric vehicles? 

Duke Energy needs to continue its leadership in the electric vehicle 
revolution . While Duke has pursued pilot projects and collaborated with 

a:
partners, the company might also move more aggressively to develop best 
practices in EV charging and distributed energy storage . These best practices 
could be readily implemented with proven technology, consumer benefits, and 
energy, emissions and cost savings . The distributed energy capability of electric 
vehicles has the potential to provide supplemental power, grid stability and 
renewable energy storage. All of this leads to tangible technological and economic 
sustainability, led by the innovative utility sector, and Duke Energy .

What are the advantages of U.S. and Chinese partnerships on clean 
energy technologies?

In the years that the Clean Air Task Force and Duke Energy have been 
a:
working together, we’ve seen that the U .S . and China are complementary 
in most areas of clean energy development . The U .S . tends to lead in technology 
innovation, financial and business structures, product marketing and financial 
management . China leads in its ability to implement projects once they’re 
designed, and to refine existing technologies to meet local requirements. 
Chinese companies also have access to lower-cost capital . 

What’s most important is that, together, we are developing advanced clean 
energy technologies faster and at lower costs than we ever could separately, 
and therefore taking aim at the leading cause of global climate change . This is 
not a zero-sum game, or a business competition. The market potential for these 
technologies is too large to be cornered by any one company .

Which clean energy technologies are the most promising in the near term?

In order to address global climate change, we must develop all clean 
a:
energy technologies as fast as possible . In the clean-coal area, 
post-combustion carbon dioxide (CO2) capture, coal gasification, integrated 
gasification combined-cycle and polygeneration (creating multiple products  
from a coal plant) are the most promising . For renewables, we need to 
dramatically lower the costs of solar and wind . In addition, we need to bring to 
scale smaller modular nuclear reactors, solar thermal generation, CO2 geologic 
sequestration and renewable energy storage . Finally, we should continue to 
pursue smart total energy management — from generation to distribution to 
energy efficiency improvements.

Given your experience bringing U.S. and Chinese companies together, 
what advice do you have for Duke Energy?

I believe Duke should continue to develop deeper relationships with its 
Chinese partners in ways that provide mutual benefits in terms of project 

a:
execution and broader business strategy . Duke should continuously evaluate 
partnership opportunities with Chinese firms in light of its own business strategy 
and priorities, and focus on achieving success in a few key projects .

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

 
 
 
 
 
 
12

DukE ENERGy SuSTaINaBILITy pLaN  

aND pRoGRESS aT a GLaNCE

1 Innovative Products  

and Services

2 Environmental 

Footprint

Provide innovative products and services in a carbon-constrained, competitive world.

Reduce our environmental footprint.

wHy It Matters: Our customers want products and services that keep them 
competitive, yet respond to environmental concerns.

Corporate sUstaInaBIlIty Goals

Energy Efficiency: Reduce customer 
energy consumption by 2,500 gigawatt-
hours (GWh) and peak demand by 
2,100 megawatts (MW) by 2013. 

2010 Status: As of year-end 2010, 
energy consumption was reduced by 
1,270 GWh, and peak demand was 
reduced by 798 MW.

Renewables: Scale up to 3,000 MW of 
wind, solar and biomass by 2020.

2010 Status: We added more than 
250 MW of wind and solar energy in 
2010, ending the year with more than 
1,000 MW in service. 

affordable Energy: Maintain rates lower 
than the national average.

2010 Status:

Duke Energy’s regulated average retail 
rates were lower than the U.S. average in 
South Carolina, North Carolina, Indiana 
and Kentucky. 

Due to the economic downturn and drop 
in wholesale prices, our regulated average 
retail rate in Ohio, which was set in 2008 
through the end of 2011, is now above 
the national average. (For information 
about how we are addressing this issue, 
see pages 18-19 of this report.) 

Reliable Energy: 

Maintain the high reliability of our 
generation system.

2010 Status:

 ■ Nuclear capacity factor 

 was 

approximately 95.9 percent versus 
a target of 93.8 percent.

 ■ Regulated fossil commercial 

 was approximately 

availability 
88.7 percent versus a target of 
88.3 percent.

 ■ Nonregulated fossil commercial avail-

ability was approximately 89.7 percent 
versus a target of 87.2 percent.

Maintain the high reliability of our 
distribution system.

2010 Status: Though we have improved 
reliability substantially in recent years, we 
did not meet our aggressive 2010 goals 
due to more lightning strikes.

 ■ Average number of outages* was 
1.11 versus a target of 1.10. 

 ■ Average outage duration* was 
144 minutes versus a target of 
139 minutes. 

*   Outages longer than 5 minutes; statistics are reported 

per customer .

wHy It Matters: As an energy 
company, we have a large impact 
on the environment and depend on 
natural resources for our fuel.

Corporate sUstaInaBIlIty Goals

Carbon Emissions: Reduce or offset the 
carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emissions from our 
U.S. generation fleet 17 percent from 
2005 by 2020 (i.e., go from 105 million 
tons in 2005 to 87 million tons in 2020). 

2010 Status: Due to higher electricity 
demand from customers, our U.S. 
generation fleet emitted about 100 
million tons of CO2 — up from 94 million 
tons in 2009, when the economy was 
weaker. Current forecasts indicate higher 
electricity demand and other factors will 
cause our emissions to exceed the 2020 
goal. New nuclear generation capacity, 
if built in the 2021-2023 time frame as 
currently forecasted, will help reduce 
emissions and move us substantially 
closer to a 17 percent reduction.

Carbon Intensity: Reduce the carbon 
intensity (tons of CO2 emitted per net 
megawatt-hour of electricity produced) 
of our total generation fleet from 0.63 
in 2005 to 0.50 by 2020. 

2010 Status: Our total generation fleet 
carbon intensity increased slightly — 
from 0.59 in 2009 to 0.60 in 2010 
— due to the same factors mentioned 
above. Current forecasts indicate our 
carbon intensity will slightly exceed 
the 2020 goal. 

waste: Increase the percentage of solid 
waste that is recycled from 52 percent in 
2008 to 62 percent by 2012. (This goal 
excludes Duke Energy International and 
Duke Energy Generation Services.)

2010 Status: We recycled more 
than 24,000 tons of materials, or 
about 63 percent of the total waste 
stream. While we have reached our 
goal, staying on track for 2012 will 
require the continued participation 
of employees across the company. 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13

This sustainability plan reflects Duke Energy’s commitment to operate in a way that is good for people, the 
planet and profits. It expands on the company’s business strategy and values. After our merger with Progress 
Energy is complete, we will be updating our sustainability plan and goals to reflect the merged company.

3 Quality 

Workforce

Attract, develop and retain a diverse, 
high-quality workforce.

wHy It Matters: Energy companies 
will be differentiated by the quality, 
creativity and customer focus of 
their employees.

4 Strong  

Communities

Help build strong communities.

wHy It Matters: Our success is 
linked to the health and prosperity 
of the communities we serve.

5 Governance and  

Transparency

Be profitable and demonstrate strong 
governance and transparency.

wHy It Matters: Creating shareholder 
value and earning the trust and 
confidence of our many stakeholders 
keeps us in business.

Corporate sUstaInaBIlIty Goals

Corporate sUstaInaBIlIty Goals

Corporate sUstaInaBIlIty Goals

philanthropy: Develop the baseline 
number of lives positively impacted by 
our support of key community partners 
during 2010. 

2010 Status: We piloted a process to 
evaluate the impacts of our philanthropy 
on the community. The pilot included 
12 grants ranging from $125,000 to 
$5 million, given over a period of one 
to five years, totaling $16.5 million. 
By engaging with our key community 
partners, we learned that in 2009 over 
1 million lives were positively impacted 
by those 12 grants. Given the value we 
and our community partners gained 
from this evaluation process, we plan 
to continue it in 2011. 

Shareholder Return: Outperform 
our peers in total shareholder return 
(TSR) 
 annually and over a three-year 
period, as measured by the Philadelphia 
Utility Index.

2010 Status: Our TSR was 9.5 percent 
for 2010, exceeding our peers as 
measured by the Philadelphia Utility 
Index. TSR for the index was 5.7 percent 
in 2010. Duke Energy has achieved 
cumulative TSR of 4.7 percent over the 
past three years, while the utility index 
TSR has been a negative 15.4 percent.

Safety: 

Achieve zero work-related fatalities. 

2010 Status: Tragically, five contrac-
tors died from injuries sustained while 
working for Duke Energy in 2010. A team 
of senior leaders has been formed to 
address the issue of contractor safety.

Achieve top-decile safety performance in 
employee Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 
by 2012.

2010 Status: We exceeded our aggres-
sive employee target in 2010, achieving 
a TICR of 0.9. Employee TICR has 
improved in each of the past five years, 
and 40 percent since 2006. We are on 
track to be in the top decile by 2012.

Employee Engagement: Maintain 
management and employee engage-
ment at 75 percent and 64 percent, 
respectively, or higher, as measured by 
favorable scores on survey questions.

2010 Status: Management and employee 
engagement were 76 and 71 percent, 
respectively.

proGress key:   

  ACHIEVED or oN TrACK    
  CurrENTly NoT oN TrACK    
  GoAl NoT ACHIEVED

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

1

Innovative Products  
and Services

ChaLLENGES

 ■ Keep rates affordable as we invest in modernizing our system.
 ■ Grow our renewable energy portfolio, despite the economic downturn 

and increased competition.

 ■ Continue to mitigate the impact of customer switching in Ohio. 

oppoRTuNITIES

 ■ Help customers save power and money through energy efficiency 

offerings that also benefit the environment.

 ■ Continue to be a leader in building a smart grid network.
 ■ Develop infrastructure to support widespread adoption of plug-in 

electric vehicles.

2010 aND EaRLy 2011 hIGhLIGhTS

 ■ Deployed energy efficiency programs under our new regulatory  

model that enables us to earn a return for helping customers lower  
their energy bills.

 ■ Added more than 250 megawatts (MW) of wind and solar energy  
in 2010, ending the year with more than 1,000 MW in service.
 ■ Continued smart grid pilots in the Carolinas and deployments in Ohio.

moVING TowaRD  
a SECuRE, DIGITaL GRID

We are implementing digital technologies 
in our century-old power grid to build 
a secure and flexible network that can 
handle today’s advancements in energy 
— and tomorrow’s.

The digital grid will improve the 
flexibility and resiliency of our electric 
system. This means improved efficiency, 
better power quality and reliability, and 
more options for renewable energy, energy 
storage and plug-in electric vehicles. And, 
it will enable us to offer new efficiency 
programs to give customers greater  
control over their energy use and costs.

ohio 

We received regulatory approval to 
implement the smart grid in Ohio in 2008. 
In 2010, we began full-scale deployment 
of the technology.
 ■ Ohio is the first state in Duke Energy’s 

footprint to modernize its power 
delivery system with digital technology. 

 ■ Duke Energy has installed approxi-
mately 140,000 smart electric 
meters, 100,000 smart gas meters, 
and 22,000 communication nodes 
in Ohio — eliminating the need for 
manual meter readings and giving 
customers greater insight into their 
daily energy usage. 

 ■ We are installing distribution automa-

tion equipment, such as relays, circuit 
breakers and sensors, to improve 
reliability. This digital equipment can 
automatically shorten power outages 
and even prevent them altogether. The 
technology also improves the system’s 
efficiency by reducing the amount of 
energy lost from the lines as it travels 
long distances. 

 ■ Installations will grow to more than 

1 million smart electric and gas meters 
and other components over the next 
five years. 

15

CyBer seCUrIty

Emerging technologies — regardless of industry — always open new avenues of risk . Duke Energy 
is continually assessing and improving its security plan to keep pace with growing cyber-threats, 
regulatory and oversight expectations, and evolving digital grid technologies . 

Duke Energy’s digital grid components are protected with layers of cyber and physical security:

 ■ The company employs skilled information technology experts who constantly monitor our 

system’s security . 

 ■ Our active relationships with manufacturers and regulators help ensure that we have a broad view 
of real-time cyber-security threats and can respond to them appropriately . We review security as 
part of the new-technology design process, and include security requirements when procuring new 
equipment. We also test new equipment, and request upgrades and fixes if problems are identified.

 ■ Our robust cyber-security policies help ensure the safety of our power delivery system, including 

the digital grid .

Indiana

Duke Energy Indiana’s original 
proposal to install 800,000 smart 
meters was rejected by the Indiana Utility 
Regulatory Commission (IURC) in late 
2009. But the commission asked us to 
come back with a scaled-back smart grid 
rollout plan.
 ■ In April 2010, we filed a plan to install 
40,000 smart meters and distribution 
automation, and to pilot time-of-use 
rates, electric vehicles, distributed 
solar generation and stationary 
battery storage. 

 ■ The test area includes 39,000 residen-
tial customers and 1,000 commercial 
customers just north of Indianapolis. 
 ■ We will collect pilot data for a year. We 
then hope to be able to demonstrate 
to regulators that the programs 
should be implemented across our 
service territory.

 ■ Duke Energy presented the plan during 
an IURC hearing in July 2010. We 
anticipate a ruling in 2011.

kentucky and the Carolinas

We’re working through the planning 
process to finalize full-scale deployment 
plans in Kentucky and the Carolinas. In 
the meantime, we will use information 
from our North Carolina pilot programs and 
our Ohio rollout to enhance the customer 
experience in our other service territories.

DukE ENERGy pREppING  
foR ELECTRIC VEhICLES

In late 2010, manufacturers like General 
Motors and Nissan began deploying their 
new plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) in 
the U.S. Duke Energy is preparing for 
widespread adoption through a variety 
of programs and partnerships. Our job is 
twofold: to maintain a safe and reliable 
power grid as demand grows for electricity 
as a transportation fuel, and to ensure  
a positive experience for our customers.

The benefits of electric vehicles are clear:
our customers will save money. 
Given today’s oil prices, “filling up” an 
electric vehicle is a cheaper alternative  
to fueling gasoline-powered vehicles.

The environment will benefit. 
Widespread adoption of electric vehicles 
will significantly cut vehicle emissions.

Electricity is a domestic resource. 
Electric vehicles reduce our dependence 
on foreign oil and lead to more local jobs.

A plug-in electric vehicle’s impact on greenhouse 
gas emissions depends on the source of the 
electricity used to charge its battery . When 
power is produced by nuclear or renewable 
energy sources, electric cars reduce emissions 
dramatically . However, even in regions where 
most electricity is produced by coal, PEVs still 
reduce greenhouse gases by 25 to 30 percent 
over conventional vehicles . 

Source: www .GoElectricDrive .com

pilot programs

Eligible residential customers will 
receive electric vehicle charging stations as 
part of pilot programs in Indiana and the 
Carolinas. Duke Energy will install charging 
stations, as well as service the technology 
for the duration of the programs. When 
the pilot ends, participants will have the 
option of purchasing the charging stations 
at significant savings. 

We recently installed electric vehicle 

charging stations at our Charlotte and 
Plainfield corporate offices, and plan instal-
lations at additional company locations in 
2011. Partially funded by the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act, these 
installations will support pilot programs 
to evaluate the impact of PEVs on our 
power grid. For example, our own plug-in 
electric vehicle deployment project recently 
enlisted 10 Duke Energy employees to test 
the new Chevy Volt in North Carolina. 

We will use the insights and informa-
tion we gain from these pilots to design 
products and services that appeal to PEV 
owners, and to develop model regulatory 
frameworks for future PEV deployments. 

IToChu partnership

Duke Energy and Tokyo-based 

ITOCHU Corp. signed an agreement 
in November 2010 to collaborate on 
advanced energy technologies, starting 
with the evaluation and testing of 
second-life applications for electric 
vehicle (EV) batteries.

According to some auto industry 
estimates, EV batteries that can no longer 
charge to approximately 80 percent of their 
original capacity may be candidates for 
replacement. Duke Energy and ITOCHU 
believe these partially used batteries 
could live on in other applications, like 
supplementing home energy supply, 
storing renewable power or providing 
a fast-charging power source for EVs. 
By increasing the total lifetime value of 
batteries, second-life applications could 
also help reduce initial battery cost.

This pilot project will help Duke Energy 

and ITOCHU develop potential business 
models for future commercialization. 

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

16

a GREENER upTowN ChaRLoTTE

Duke Energy, Cisco, Verizon Wireless 
and Charlotte Center City Partners are 
collaborating on Envision: Charlotte, 
announced at the 2010 Clinton 
Global Initiative. The aim is to reduce 
energy use in our headquarters city 
by up to 20 percent among about 
70 office buildings by 2016 — avoiding 
approximately 220,000 metric tons of 
greenhouse gases. 

the N.C. Utilities Commission approved 
our ability to recover a portion of our costs 
under our energy efficiency framework.

aNoThER STRoNG yEaR 
foR RENEwaBLES

As the economy forces many renewable 
energy project developers to scale back or 
delay their plans, Duke Energy continues 
to build its wind and solar portfolio.

Using Duke Energy’s Smart Energy 

winds of Change

NowSM energy efficiency services, 
Envision: Charlotte will use digital 
energy technologies to gather data on 
the buildings’ collective energy use. 
Display screens in participating buildings 
and throughout uptown will provide 
near-real-time updates.

Duke Energy is funding 70 percent of 
the program’s cost, with Cisco and Verizon 
funding the remainder. In February 2011, 

Duke Energy Renewables, a newly 
named commercial business unit, added 
251 megawatts (MW) of wind-generated 
capacity in 2010. The 51-MW Kit 
Carson Windpower Project, completed 
in November 2010, is the company’s first 
renewable energy facility in Colorado. 
The 200-MW Top of the World Windpower 
Project near Casper, Wyo., is our second 
in the area and fourth in the Cowboy State.

I’M aCCoUntaBle

Vincent Davis
Director, Smart Energy Now Community Partnerships
Charlotte, N .C .

I’m accountable for Envision: Charlotte, a team effort to 
create one of the most sustainable and energy efficient 
urban cores in the u.S. This is an exciting, first-of-its-kind program, and it reflects 
Charlotte’s role as an emerging “energy capital .” 

We are starting out by equipping buildings in Charlotte’s uptown business area with the latest in energy 
technologies . We’ll be able to use near-real-time energy use data to create awareness and change 
behavior among building owners and managers, companies and employees . That is really the core of 
this program — to engage the public in a way that creates actionable behavior .

Helping customers use less energy can delay the building of new power plants, which is good for Duke 
Energy, our customers and the community . The initiative is also transforming Charlotte into an active 
learning laboratory for innovative sustainability practices. As we create a model for sustainability, 
energy efficiency and innovation, we’ll become a role model for the country — perhaps even the world. 

Envision: Charlotte carries an even deeper, more personal meaning to me . The company’s Sustainability 
Filter asks us to look through the eyes of future generations when we make decisions . I have two 
children . I want them to thrive in a community that takes responsibility for its actions . We have this 
unique opportunity to change the way our community uses energy . I have high hopes that this will 
inspire people to envision their own sustainable future, and join together to make it a reality .

Duke Energy’s Kit Carson Windpower Project in 
eastern Colorado

While we met our goal of adding 
between 200 and 300 MW of wind 
energy to our portfolio in 2010, we foresee 
market challenges ahead. Because whole-
sale customers are requesting fewer bids, 
Duke Energy’s wind business, as well as 
the U.S. wind power industry as a whole, 
may slow in 2011. However, our pipeline 
of potential development projects — more 
than 5,000 MW — creates excellent 
prospects for growth in 2012 and beyond.

In August 2010, Duke Energy canceled 

plans to erect three demonstration wind 
turbines in North Carolina’s Pamlico 
Sound, between the mainland and the 
state’s Outer Banks. After a year of 
in-depth study and collaboration with the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, we concluded that the fixed costs 
associated with permitting, design and 
construction of the small-scale project 
would not be economically viable. Our 
partnership with UNC-Chapel Hill is now 
focused on studies to enable large-scale 
offshore wind development on the ocean 
side of the N.C. coast.

Solar power Shining Brightly

Proven technology and improved 
economies of scale helped fuel new 
investments in solar energy in 2010. 
Duke Energy Renewables acquired and 
completed three commercial solar farms — 
two 1-MW photovoltaic (PV) 
 projects 
in North Carolina and a 14-MW facility in 
Texas. The Blue Wing Solar Project near 
San Antonio consists of approximately 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17

at customer sites throughout the state, will 
need nearly 130 workers by 2012 to fulfill 
its agreement with Duke Energy.

Biopower and Landfill Gas

Biopower is generated when organic 

material — often called biomass — is 
used to create electricity. Many states and 
electricity providers count on biopower to 
help meet renewable energy mandates and 
provide a sustainable alternative to burning 
fossil fuels.

However, the U.S. market for large-
scale biomass projects has been hampered 
by a lack of clear federal guidance on 
emission regulations, lower natural gas 
prices and the weak economy. In early 
2011, Duke Energy and AREVA decided 
to suspend the activities of ADAGE, the 
biopower joint venture they formed in 
2008. ADAGE may resume its efforts 
when market conditions improve.

Biopower still figures in our N.C. 
regulated utility’s plans to meet the state’s 
Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency 
Portfolio Standard. We are co-firing small 
amounts of biomass with coal at select 
generation facilities, and exploring the 
potential retrofit of other units to burn 
biomass only. 

In addition, we expect landfill gas-to-
electricity investments to play an important 
role, and have executed roughly a dozen 
contracts to buy power from landfill  
gas projects. 

Landfill gas, primarily consisting 
of methane, is produced when organic 
materials in large landfills decompose. 
Methane is approximately 20 times more 
potent than carbon dioxide at trapping 
heat in the atmosphere. Capturing 
methane and using it as fuel to produce 
electricity is preferable to burning it as  
a waste product.

I’M aCCoUntaBle

Melanie Miller
Senior Project Manager,  
Global Technology Development
Charlotte, N .C .

I’m accountable for testing digital grid technologies in 
Charlotte, N .C . Our “test bed” in a south Charlotte neighborhood allows us to try 
out new technologies and see how customers use them in real-life applications .

There are many moving pieces to each pilot program . We educate our customers on how each new 
technology will operate and give them more control over their energy usage . In return, customers 
provide feedback and suggestions on hardware and software upgrades that would improve their 
overall experience .

Our work allows Duke Energy to better understand how the integration of the digital grid, renewable 
energy sources, plug-in electric vehicles and energy storage will affect our customers and the operation 
of the electric system as a whole. At the end of the day, our goal is to effectively lower energy demand 
and improve power reliability at the least possible cost .

Duke Energy is dedicated to helping customers take control of how they use energy, and the new grid is 
vital to making this possible . Just as technology has enhanced our lives in countless ways, the digital 
grid will lead to improvements we are only beginning to envision .

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

our Blue Wing Solar Project in San Antonio, Texas

215,000 PV panels, making it the most 
expansive solar farm in Texas and one 
of the largest in the country. We are also 
adding two 5-MW commercial solar farms 
— one in Florida and another in North 
Carolina. Both of these projects will be 
on line by the end of 2011. We expect to 
complete more solar facilities by the end 
of the year as well.

Our N.C. regulated utility’s $50 million 

program to install 8 MW of solar energy 
capacity on the rooftops and grounds of 
select schools, commercial buildings and 
factories in the state is virtually complete. 
Participating customers receive rental 
payments from Duke Energy in exchange 
for hosting our solar panels. The electricity 
generated through the program — enough 
to power approximately 1,300 homes — 
is fed into the power grid that serves all 
our customers in the state.

Duke Energy also purchases solar 
power to help meet our renewable energy 
goals and state mandates. In December 
2010, the 16-MW SunEdison facility 
in Davidson County, N.C., achieved full 
operation. This PV solar farm, which 
supplies our N.C. customers, can produce 
enough electricity to power more than 
2,600 homes.

Investing in solar energy and other 
forms of renewable power creates jobs. 
Our contract to purchase renewable 
energy certificates from FLS Energy put 
80 people to work in 2010. FLS Energy, 
a North Carolina company that uses 
solar technology to produce hot water 

18

DukE ENERGy CoNTINuES 
CoLLaBoRaTIoN wITh  
ChINESE ENERGy CompaNIES

Duke Energy continues to collaborate with 
some of China’s most prominent energy 
companies to scale up and commercialize 
clean energy technologies. 

In November 2010, we signed an 
agreement with BYD — a privately held 
company that makes plug-in hybrid 
and all-electric vehicles. BYD is the 
largest Chinese and fourth-largest global 
manufacturer of rechargeable batteries. 
Duke Energy and BYD will collaborate on 
technologies for energy storage, electric 
transportation and smart grid applications. 
The two companies will also explore joint 
business development opportunities.

Duke Energy also has agreements 

signed previously with Huaneng Group, 
China’s largest electric utility, and ENN 
Group, one of China’s largest privately 
held, diversified energy companies. 

Duke Energy and Huaneng Group 

continue their collaborative research on 
capturing and sequestering 
 carbon 
dioxide emitted from coal-burning power 
plants, with joint projects at generation 
facilities in both nations. 

In January 2011, Duke Energy and 

ENN Group announced a joint effort 
to develop China’s first “eco city” in 
Langfang, near Beijing. The objective: 

create a “city of tomorrow” powered by 
clean energy, including solar and wind, 
coupled with advanced energy storage and 
energy efficiency systems. Duke Energy 
will apply lessons learned in Langfang to 
the company’s deployment of clean energy 
technology in its U.S. service areas.

Duke Energy also participates in the 
new U.S.-China Energy Research Center, a 
bilateral enterprise established by President 
Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao 
to advance clean energy technologies in 
the U.S. and China. The consortium will 
operate with a five-year, $100-million 
budget: $25 million from U.S. members, 
$25 million from the U.S. government and 
$50 million from China’s government.
Duke Energy foresees significant 
benefits resulting from research and close 
collaboration with fast-growing China. 
Among them: 
 ■ Accelerated development and deploy-

ment of low-carbon technologies in our 
service areas

 ■ Recruitment of Chinese energy firms 
into our service areas, to create 
American jobs and spur economic 
development

 ■ Access to low-cost Chinese capital to 
help us fund the investments required 
to modernize our generation fleet and 
power grid.

weB eXClUsIve Content

 ■  Charlotteans Testing Advanced 

 ■ Green Power and Carbon Offsets Expand 

Energy Technologies

 ■ CFL Giveaways Extremely Popular
 ■ Customers Opt for Paperless Billing
 ■  Surveys Highlight Strong Customer 

Satisfaction

to Kentucky

 ■ Partnering with our Customers
 ■ Advancing Energy Storage
 ■ Video: Developing a Wind Power Project 
 ■ Video: Envision: Charlotte

VIDEO

Building Business 
with China

VIDEO

Smart Grid: 
Improving  
Reliability

DELIVERING  
affoRDaBLE ENERGy

Duke Energy currently offers some of 
the most competitive electric rates in 
the United States. However, our power 
plants are aging, as is our transmission 
and distribution system. 

Modernizing our system will enable 
us to provide cleaner and more reliable 
energy. As we continue to invest in 
modernization, customers’ rates will 
increase. We intend to file for base-
rate 
possibly Kentucky in 2011. If approved, 
we anticipate the new rates going into 
effect in 2012.

 increases in the Carolinas and 

We minimize rate increases by aggres-
sively managing our costs, and reduce rate 
impacts by developing new programs and 
services to help our customers reduce their 
energy usage. 

ohio Customer Choice

Since 2001, Ohio’s evolving competi-
tive electricity market has given customers 
the ability to choose their supplier for 
power generation and transmission. This 
is different from the traditional regulated 
markets of the Carolinas, Indiana and 
Kentucky, where customers are served by 
the electric utility assigned to their area.
Duke Energy Ohio’s current rates 
were approved by the Public Utilities 
Commission of Ohio (PUCO) in 2008 and 
set through the end of 2011 as part of our 
existing Electric Security Plan (ESP). The 
ESP set a fixed regulated rate for electric 
generation that was comparable to the 
then-current market price. 

Customer choice wasn’t significantly 
embraced in Ohio until 2009 when power 
prices plummeted, along with the economy 
and industrial demand. Competitive retail 
electric service providers began marketing 
directly to Duke Energy Ohio customers, 
offering generation prices lower than our 
ESP rate. Many large commercial and 
industrial customers began to switch to 
other suppliers to take advantage of the 
price differential. Because of the structure 
of Ohio’s electric market, Duke Energy 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I’M aCCoUntaBle

Gianna Manes 
Senior Vice President and 
Chief Customer officer

We’re committed to helping customers achieve greater energy 
efficiency. In this Q&A, Gianna Manes talks about our current 
energy-saving programs and what to expect in the future.

Ohio was no longer able to offer them 
competitive pricing.

To respond to the competitive market, 

What key programs has Duke Energy piloted or offered?

in 2009 Duke Energy Retail, a nonregu-
lated subsidiary of Duke Energy Corp., 
began to market to large commercial and 
industrial customers in Ohio. In mid-2010, 
we began marketing to residential 
customers as well.

a:

For many years now, we have offered products, services and information to help customers save 
energy and money . We are currently focusing on several new programs, including:

 ■ Home Energy Comparison Report — provides customers information on how their energy usage 

compares to an average of their neighbors .

 ■ Compact fluorescent light (CFl) bulb distribution — customers can get up to 15 bulbs at a discount 

By the end of 2010, about 65 percent 

or at no cost .

of Duke Energy Ohio’s customer load 
had switched to other retail suppliers 
who offered generation at lower prices. 
Duke Energy Retail was able to recover 
approximately 60 percent of that switched 
load, while also capturing customer load 
outside our franchised service area. Duke 
Energy Ohio continues to serve as its 
customers’ power distribution provider, 
regardless of which entity they choose  
for their electric generation.

Late last year, we applied to move 
toward market-driven rates. The proposed 
change would have ensured that Duke 
Energy Ohio customers receive a 
competitive, reliable supply of electric 
generation. However, the PUCO did 
not approve our market-rate application 
as filed. In light of this ruling, we are 
evaluating our options and plan to file 
a revised application. 

Duke Energy’s  
Regulated average Retail Rates
(Cents per kilowatt-hour)

11.71

U.S. Average 9.84

7.35

7.43

7.87

6.53

 14 .00

 12 .00

 10 .00

  8 .00

  6 .00

  4 .00

  2 .00

South  

North 
0 
  Carolina  Carolina

Indiana  Kentucky 

Ohio 

Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average rates report, 
Summer 2010; 12 months ending 6/30/2010

 ■ Home Energy Management — leverages advanced energy technologies to give customers near- 
real-time energy usage information . Customers also receive tools to control — either at home or 
remotely — some of their larger appliances in order to reduce their energy consumption during 
high-demand periods . 

How are the programs going? Any lessons learned?

Implementation is going well . We’ve targeted about 18,000 customers in Ohio and South Carolina 
to receive Home Energy Comparison Reports, and customers are on track to save about 2 percent 

a:
— about $20 annually, on average — on their electric bills . We plan to expand this program to other 
customers by the end of 2011 . 

In 2010, our CFL campaigns were hugely successful and resulted in the distribution of more than 10 million 
compact fluorescent light bulbs. By replacing their incandescents with those CFls, our customers can 
save enough energy to power nearly 45,000 homes . Building on the success of last year’s campaigns, 
we plan to distribute an additional 10 million bulbs in 2011 .

We completed our first Home Energy Management pilot in 2010. overall, the results and customer 
feedback demonstrate that customers want to take control of their energy usage and costs . Their partici-
pation proved that small changes add up, and can help reduce peak demand . 

This pilot has given us valuable insights into the technology and customers’ expectations . We are using 
the feedback to enhance the program and will increase the number of pilot participants in North Carolina 
and Ohio this year . 

Are these programs a win for everyone? How?

Energy efficiency is a true win for everyone, and is really a key 
driver in helping us deliver on our mission of affordable, reliable 

a:
and increasingly clean energy . 

From a customer’s perspective, our energy efficiency products 
and services provide the information and tools they need to take 
control of their energy usage and costs . When our customers 
make decisions to reduce their energy usage, and that behavior 
is sustained, we can begin to count on the savings as the 
“fifth fuel” 
 in our generation mix . This can reduce our 
need for peak generation and even delay the need to build 
new power plants . That will help keep rates affordable 
for customers, while also reducing emissions . It’s a win 
across the board for our customers, the company and 
the environment . 

For more Q&As with Gianna Manes, please visit  
the Innovative Products and Services section  
of our Sustainability Report online. 

 
 
 
  
 
20

aDDRESSING QuESTIoNS 
aBouT RENEwaBLES

As an industry and as a company, we have 
decades of experience in siting, building 
and operating coal, nuclear and natural-gas 
power plants. As we develop renewable 
energy projects, we are finding that they 
are not without their critics and challenges. 
For example, stakeholders in North 
Carolina are debating the types of wood 

that should qualify as biomass fuel under 
the state’s renewable energy standard. 
Some believe only wood waste should 
be allowed, meaning limbs, treetops and 
other forest management residuals. Others, 
including Duke Energy, support a broader 
definition, because there is simply not 
enough waste wood to fuel the need for 
biomass renewable energy in the state. 
Studies show North Carolina’s forest 
inventory can support significant additional 

SySTEm RELIaBILITy REmaINS hIGh

Power reliability is always a top priority, and we continually work to reduce both the 
number and duration of outages our customers experience. Our numbers have improved 
substantially in recent years — mainly due to new and improved reliability programs. 
But we did not meet our aggressive 2010 goals, which were set according to our 
historic improvement trends. 

Weather, especially lightning, impacted our 2010 performance. Our customers in 
the Carolinas experienced 80 percent more lightning strikes last year, while our Midwest 
customers saw a 46 percent increase. 

oUtaGe statIstICs

Average number of 
outages* (occurrences)

Average time without 
power* (minutes)

2006

1 .30

164

2007

1 .13

133

2008

1 .19

153

2009

1 .04

130

2010

2010 Goal

1.11

144

1 .10

139

* Longer than 5 minutes; statistics are reported per customer .

Our generation plants met the challenge of increased load requirements resulting 

from the weather, led by the nuclear fleet’s capacity factor 
95.9 percent in 2010. This eclipsed the previous record of approximately 95.2 percent 
in 2002, and marked the 11th consecutive year that the nuclear fleet had a capacity 
factor above 90 percent. Our regulated fossil fleet also had an excellent year, with 
commercial availability 
generation fleet also experienced superior operational results, with commercial 
availability of 89.7 percent. 

 of approximately 88.7 percent. Our nonregulated Midwest 

 of approximately 

GeneratIon relIaBIlIty

Nuclear Capacity Factor

90 .1%

92 .4%

91 .5%

93 .3%

95.9%

93 .8%

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2010 Goal

Regulated Fossil Commercial 
Availability 1

Nonregulated Fossil Commercial 
Availability 2 

1 Systemwide statistic not available for 2006 .
2 Based on units operated by Duke Energy .

—

87 .0%

85 .3%

89 .6%

88.7%

88 .3%

88 .7%

81 .0%

84 .0%

83 .1%

89.7%

87 .2%

harvesting and still produce more trees 
than are harvested. 

In October 2010, the North Carolina 
Utilities Commission ruled in favor of the 
broader definition, but an appeal has 
been filed with the N.C. Court of Appeals. 
If upheld, the ruling would allow Duke 
Energy to continue to consider biomass as 
a scalable and reliable means of compli-
ance with the state’s renewable energy 
standard. A more limiting definition could 
significantly reduce the viability of biomass 
projects across the state. 

Another example is in the Midwest, 

which has some of the best wind 
resources in the country. Duke Energy is 
developing a 200-megawatt wind power 
project in northwestern Michigan, the 
Gail Windpower Project. We will commit 
to building the project once a long-term 
agreement with a power purchaser — 
typically an electric utility or cooperative 
— is in place. 

Area residents are largely supportive 

of the project given the jobs, tax revenues 
and clean, renewable energy it will 
provide. Some, however, are concerned 
about sound and vibrations from the 
proposed wind turbines, property values, 
and impacts on the viewshed. We are 
keeping area residents informed about 
the proposed Gail Windpower Project 
through a variety of in-person and 
written communications. 

As an industry, we still have much 
to learn about renewable energy as well. 
The Electric Power Research Institute 
has launched a new research program, 
“Environmental Aspects of Renewable 
Energy,” 
 to share insights on the siting, 
building and operation of these important 
sources of energy, and to address concerns 
about their development. 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2

Environmental  
Footprint

ChaLLENGES

 ■ Keep rates competitive while making investments to reduce our 

impact on the environment.

 ■ Monitor, influence and prepare for potential new regulations that 

could impact our generation fleet.

 ■ Address stakeholder concerns associated with Edwardsport,  

a first-of-its-scale integrated gasification combined-cycle coal plant.
 ■ Participate fully in industry efforts to understand and learn from the 

nuclear crisis in Japan.

oppoRTuNITIES

 ■ Reduce our carbon intensity by retiring and replacing older plants 

with new, cleaner generation.

 ■ Encourage U.S. energy policy that benefits both the environment 

and the economy.

 ■ Reduce demand through energy efficiency and digital smart grid 

programs.

 ■ Partner to effectively manage limited water supplies in some regions.

2010 aND EaRLy 2011 hIGhLIGhTS

 ■ Made significant progress on building the Cliffside and Edwardsport 

advanced-coal units.

 ■ Expanded partnerships with leading Chinese energy companies 

on clean energy technologies.

 ■ Reduced sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions 73 and 

52 percent, respectively, over past five years.

 ■ Recycled more than 24,000 tons of materials, or about 63 percent 

of our U.S. solid waste stream.

21

aDVaNCING SouND 
ENERGy poLICy

Duke Energy continued to play a leader-
ship role in advocating for sound national 
energy policy in 2010. Regrettably, 
Congress failed to enact comprehensive 
climate legislation, which would have put 
a market price on carbon and more rapidly 
moved the U.S. toward a low-carbon 
future. Congressional action on a climate 
bill is also unlikely in 2011 or 2012.

In early 2011, the U.S. Environmental 

Protection Agency (EPA) moved forward 
with its regulatory strategy to control 
carbon emissions. The EPA’s carbon 
efforts, along with its numerous regula-
tions governing other emissions, have met 
stiff opposition in both houses of Congress. 

Also in early 2011, the Obama 
administration and some bipartisan 
members of Congress urged passage of 
a Clean Energy Standard to mandate the 
deployment of solar, wind, cleaner-coal 
and nuclear power generation. Whether 
such a technology-focused law could pass 
both houses of Congress remains an open 
question. Duke Energy could support a 
properly constructed federal Clean Energy 
Standard that advances the deployment 
of low-emitting energy technologies and 
meets our criteria of fairness, effectiveness 
and affordability. 

‘Clean enerGy stanDarD’ versUs 
‘renewaBle enerGy stanDarD’

A federal renewable Energy Standard would 
mandate the production of renewable energy and 
exclude nonrenewable, low-carbon resources 
such as nuclear power and coal-fired plants 
equipped with carbon capture and storage. As 
of January 2011, 29 states have this type of 
mandate in place, and an additional seven have 
nonbinding goals. A Clean Energy Standard at the 
state or federal level would be broader and would 
include nonrenewable, low-carbon resources .

Even absent a clear national energy 
policy — an “energy road map” — Duke 
Energy is moving forward to modernize 
and decarbonize 
plants and plot its own course toward a 
cleaner energy future.

 its fleet of power 

22

We are focusing on clean energy technology at power 
plants like our Edwardsport facility, under construction 
in southwestern Indiana . We’re also using technology to 
help our customers better manage their energy use .

Ultimately, the path to a cleaner 
energy future lies with the development 
and deployment of new technologies. 
Duke Energy is redefining itself as a 
technology company, far beyond its role 
as a traditional utility.

For more information on Duke 
Energy’s political involvement, see the 
Governance and Transparency section 
of this report. 

‘STRokE of pEN’ RISkS pERSIST 
foR GENERaTIoN fLEET

Duke Energy continues to actively partici-
pate in the development of federal policy 
that will shape environmental regulations 
in coming years. These new rules — what 
we call “stroke of pen” risks — will likely 
drive additional power plant retrofits and 
retirements. While compliance costs are 
subject to considerable uncertainty and 
will depend on final rules, our capital 
expenditures for new environmental 
control equipment could total approxi-
mately $5 billion over the next 10 years. 

air Quality

In August 2010, the U.S. 

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
proposed the Transport Rule to further 
reduce nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide 
emissions from fossil-fueled power plants 
in 31 eastern states and the District of 
Columbia. Phase 1 of the two-phase 
program would begin Jan. 1, 2012, and 
Phase 2 would begin Jan. 1, 2014. The 

agency expects to finalize the rule in 
mid-2011.

In March 2011, the EPA released its 
proposed Toxics Rule to limit emissions 
of mercury and other hazardous air 
pollutants from coal-fired power plants 
across the U.S. Under the proposed 
schedule, compliance with final emission 
limits could be required beginning in 
early 2015. The EPA plans to finalize 
the rule in November 2011.

Revisions to the National Ambient 
Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) continue. 
In 2010, the EPA finalized tighter air 
quality standards for sulfur dioxide, and 
is expected to finalize tighter standards 
for ozone and particulate matter within 
the next year. As with all NAAQS, state 
implementation plans will outline how 
the states intend to implement the more 
rigorous federal standards.

water 

The EPA issued a proposed rule in 
March 2011 for existing power plants 
under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water 
Act, with the final rule expected in July 
2012. The rule’s purpose is to minimize 
impact to aquatic life from the location or 
operation of cooling water intake struc-
tures by using “best technology available,” 
including additional studies and possibly 
closed-cycle cooling towers at our larger 
steam-generating facilities. A widespread 
requirement to install cooling towers at 
existing coal and nuclear plants would 
affect about 40 percent of U.S. generating 

capacity, and could have significant 
cost and supply impacts. Recognizing 
that water system and ecosystem needs 
vary, Duke Energy supports the states’ 
continued ability to select site-specific 
technologies that best suit local environ-
mental and water needs. 

The EPA also intends to revise Steam 
Electric Effluent Guidelines, which could 
drive more stringent wastewater permit 
requirements for ash pond discharges 
and scrubber 
systems. The EPA expects to propose 
guidelines in mid-2012, with final guide-
lines in January 2014 and compliance 
beginning in mid-2017.

 wastewater treatment 

Coal Combustion Residuals

An ash dike failure at a Tennessee 
Valley Authority plant in December 2008 
has heightened concerns about dike 
stability and how utilities manage coal 
combustions residuals (CCRs), including 
coal ash and scrubber gypsum. CCR 
management is currently addressed by 
varying state regulations. 

Duke Energy has a comprehensive 

monitoring, maintenance and inspection 
program in place to ensure dike stability, 
and is committed to managing CCRs in a 
way that protects human health and the 
environment. Approximately 9.5 million 
tons of CCRs were produced at Duke 
Energy’s coal-fired plants in 2010, and 
approximately half was beneficially used.
A key CCR uncertainty, however, is 
whether the EPA will seek to reverse its 
2000 determination that CCRs are not 
hazardous waste. The agency’s proposed 
rule in June 2010 sought comments on 
both hazardous and nonhazardous waste 
determinations. Duke Energy supports a 
federal nonhazardous rule, which would 
protect human health and the environment, 
while preserving the ability to recycle ash 
and gypsum into concrete, wallboard and 
other products.

We also support including structural 
integrity standards for surface impound-
ments. We believe the rule should not 
contain blanket impoundment closure 
requirements, but rather should base 
closure on performance standards. 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23

A final rule will not be issued before 
2012 and would likely take several years 
to fully implement. 

New Source Review Litigation

In October 2010, the 7th Circuit U.S. 

Court of Appeals reversed a jury verdict 
finding that three generating units at our 
Wabash River plant in Indiana violated the 
federal Clean Air Act’s New Source Review 
regulations. Duke Energy expects to put 
the three units back in service once the 
lower court’s “shut down” ruling is vacated. 
Duke Energy continues to evaluate 
plans to convert two units at our Gallagher 
Station in Indiana to natural gas. A 
December 2009 settlement between 
Duke Energy and the EPA, the U.S. 
Department of Justice and other parties 
provided that we can either retire two of 
the plant’s four units or convert them to 
natural gas. Conversion would require 
installing a 19.5-mile pipeline to bring 
natural gas to the station. The company 
is seeking permission from the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission, the 
Corps of Engineers and the Indiana Utility 
Regulatory Commission for the project. 
Duke Energy also installed additional pollu-
tion controls and switched to lower-sulfur 
coal on the two remaining coal units, as 
agreed, and those systems are operational. 
Litigation over alleged violations of 
NSR regulations at our coal-fired plants in 
the Carolinas is pending, awaiting further 
court action. 

mountaintop mining

The practice of mountaintop-removal 
coal mining — a form of surface mining 
where entire coal seams and the earth 
above them are removed from the top 
of a mountain — continues to be very 
controversial. 

Due to our location, most of the 
coal we buy for our Carolinas plants 
comes from Central Appalachia, where 
an estimated 20 to 25 percent of the 
coal mined comes from mountaintop-
removal mines.

Because of the legislative, 
regulatory and legal challenges to 

mountaintop-removal mining, we 
would prefer not to purchase coal from 
mountaintop mines. However, to help  
keep costs low for customers, we are 
required by state utility regulations to 
purchase the lowest-cost fuel available  
to run our power plants. 

In 2009, we convened an internal 
task force to research this issue. In June 
2010, we asked suppliers to offer Central 
Appalachian coal that does not come 
from mountaintop mines. We learned that 
very limited volumes of that coal can be 
purchased without a premium. Given this, 
we have started buying mountaintop-mine-
free coal whenever we can do so without 
paying a premium. 

We are also beginning to test-burn 
coal from other basins in our Carolinas 
power plants. Because these plants 
were designed to burn coal from Central 
Appalachia, test burns are required to 

determine the tolerance level to different 
fuels. Several test burns will be conducted 
in 2011. 

GENERaTIoN fLEET 
moDERNIzaTIoN IN fuLL SwING

Our generation infrastructure is aging. By 
2050, we expect to replace most of the 
power plants currently on our system with 
cleaner, more efficient generating facilities. 
Our efforts to replace and retrofit 
older, higher-emitting units with advanced 
technologies are well under way. These 
major construction projects not only 
modernize and decarbonize 
ation fleet; they also put people to work.

 our gener-

Cleaner Coal Becoming a Reality

Our 825-megawatt (MW) clean-coal 
unit under construction in North Carolina 

I’M aCCoUntaBle 

Terry Moore | Reactor Systems Engineer
McGuire Nuclear Station 

I’m accountable for the safe storage of used fuel at 
McGuire Nuclear Station . Primarily, I’m responsible for the 
management of dry cask storage . 

McGuire, like many nuclear stations across the country, stores used fuel in pools and dry casks . Dry 
casks are above-ground storage units that safely and securely house the station’s used fuel . These 
casks are rugged containers made of steel and concrete, which will protect the fuel under extreme 
conditions such as earthquakes and floods. They are monitored and licensed by the u.S. Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission .

The used fuel is moved to dry casks after it has been safely stored and cooled in deep pools for several 
years. These pools, located in reinforced concrete buildings, are steel-lined, concrete vaults filled with 
water, providing protection for the fuel assemblies . My responsibilities include technical support for 
loading the casks and overseeing the fuel handling equipment, which loads the fuel and transports the 
casks from the used fuel pools to the dry storage area on site . 

I have written more than 100 pages of procedures on loading the casks . Loading used fuel into the 
dry casks is a detailed, methodical process that involves welding, draining and drying the casks, and 
operating high-tech machinery . This process is well coordinated and safely performed by well trained 
and highly skilled workers .

Helping McGuire to safely manage its used fuel is one way I have helped Duke Energy operate more 
sustainably during my 30 years of service . 

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

24

ENVIRoNmENTaL fooTpRINT (CONTINUED)

ELECTRICITy GENERaTIoN TRaDE-offS

Every generation technology — coal, natural gas, nuclear, hydro, wind, biomass and solar 
— has advantages and disadvantages. The Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) 
summarizes those trade-offs in its recent assessment of different generation technologies. 
This EPRI chart illustrates the importance of having a diverse generation portfolio. 

GeneratIon teCHnoloGy referenCe CarD

Assessment of relative 
benefit/impact

Coal

Coal  
w/CCS*

Natural 
Gas

Nuclear Hydro

Wind Biomass

Geo- 
thermal

Solar  
Photo- 
voltaic

Construction cost 
New plant construction cost 
for an equivalent amount of 
generating capacity

Electricity cost 
Projected cost to produce 
electricity from a new plant 
over its lifetime

Land use 
Area required to support 
fuel supply and electricity 
generation

Water requirements 
Amount of water required to 
generate equivalent amount 
of electricity

Co2 emissions 
Relative amount of CO2 
emissions per unit of 
electricity

Non-CO2 emissions 
Relative amount of air 
emissions other than CO2 
per unit of electricity

Waste products 
Presence of other signifi-
cant waste products 

Availability 
Ability to generate 
electricity when needed

Flexibility 
Ability to quickly respond to 
changes in demand

* CCS: carbon capture and storage

More Favorable 

 Less Favorable

is more than 80 percent complete and 
on budget. 

Scheduled to begin operation in 
2012, unit 6 at Cliffside Steam Station 
will be one of the cleanest and most 
efficient coal units in the country. It will 
emit 30 percent less carbon dioxide per 
megawatt-hour generated than older units. 

Retirement of four older units at 
Cliffside, plus 800 MW of older, less 
efficient coal-fired generation elsewhere 
on our system, combined with other 
efforts, will make Cliffside unit 6 carbon-
neutral 

 by 2018. 

The new unit will have state-of-the-art 
air emission controls to remove 99 percent 
of sulfur dioxide emissions, 90 percent of 
nitrogen oxides emissions and 90 percent 
of mercury emissions.

The 618-MW Edwardsport integrated 

gasification combined-cycle (IGCC) 
facility in Indiana is also more than 
80 percent complete, and is scheduled 
to begin service in the fall of 2012. 

The plant will convert coal into a 
synthetic gas that’s processed to remove 
pollutants. It will be the first major new 
coal-fired power plant constructed in 
Indiana in more than 20 years. We will 
retire existing units at the site — built 
between 1944 and 1951.

The new plant will produce 10 times 

as much power as the older units and 
will emit less sulfur dioxide, nitrogen 
oxides and mercury. It will also emit more 
than 40 percent less carbon dioxide per 
megawatt-hour. We’re studying the poten-
tial for carbon capture at Edwardsport 
and have a request pending with state 
regulators to study carbon sequestration. 

In April 2010, we updated the plant’s 

cost estimate from $2.35 billion to 
$2.88 billion, due to the project’s scale 
and complexity. The revised cost is  
being reviewed by the Indiana Utility 
Regulatory Commission.

In March 2011, we filed a proposal 

with the commission to cap the project’s 
construction costs to be passed along 
to customers at $2.72 billion, excluding 
financing costs on that amount. Duke 
Energy is also proposing adjustments to 
lower the average rate increase related to 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
 
I’M aCCoUntaBle

Janice Hager 
Vice President, Integrated 
Resource Planning and 
regulated Analytics

We must act today to ensure an affordable, reliable, and cleaner 
energy supply for our customers in the future. In the following 
Q&A, Janice Hager talks about the Integrated Resource Planning 
process that we use to determine the best options to meet those 
long-term energy needs.

How does the process work?

Because power plants and other energy infrastructure take years to license and build, we must 
anticipate our customers’ energy needs 10 or 15 years into the future . The Integrated Resource 

a:
Planning (IRP) process uses both quantitative and qualitative analyses to determine when additional 
resources will be needed. These resources could include, for example, new nuclear, natural gas-fired or 
renewable energy, or additional energy efficiency. We use these analyses to develop resource plans for 
meeting near-term and long-term customer needs — while maintaining flexibility to adjust to evolving 
economic, environmental and operating circumstances . These plans are also submitted to our state 
regulators . While the plans can’t predict the future, they do help us prepare for what the future may hold . 

How are sustainability considerations addressed?

Balancing the need for affordable, reliable and cleaner energy for the 21st century represents an 
a:
important leadership opportunity for our company and our country . Despite the complexity of that 
challenge, Duke Energy’s commitment to sustainability is leading to decisions that are good for today, and 
even better for tomorrow. As part of our 2010 Carolinas IrP process, for example, we sought stakeholder 
feedback on what is important to them . To ensure our planning was consistent with our sustainability 
goals, we evaluated alternatives based on the following criteria: affordability, reliability, environmental 
impacts and job potential . We plan to explicitly incorporate these sustainability considerations into 
resource plans for other states . 

Does the IRP still support the Edwardsport integrated gasification combined-cycle (IGCC) 
project in Indiana, given higher cost estimates?

Yes, our analysis continues to show that, despite increased costs, completing the Edwardsport 
IGCC project is in the best interests of our customers . The state-of-the-art plant will replace 

a:
60-plus year-old units and ensure that we can meet our customers’ demand for energy . It will also be  
one of the cleanest coal-fired power plants in the world.

What’s the current projection for coal plant retirements? 

Existing, pending and expected environmental regulations will likely result in retrofits, retirement 
a:
or conversion to other fuels for most of Duke Energy’s coal-fired generation fleet. Since retrofits 
will not be economical for many of the smaller, older coal units, we will likely retire those units or convert 
them to burn natural gas in the 2015 time frame . We currently anticipate retiring or 
converting to another fuel (natural gas or biomass) about 2,400 MW of older 
coal-fired generation, and we’re evaluating options for another 1,300 MW. 
Duke Energy’s IRP process takes into account these likely impacts on 
resource needs, as well as other considerations . 

In light of the crisis in Japan, and given the sluggish economy, 
has the outlook on new nuclear changed? 

As a major part of Duke Energy’s diverse power generation 
a:
mix for almost 40 years, nuclear energy has provided 
significant benefits for our customers. Going forward, our analyses 
show new nuclear generation as the best option for meeting Duke 
Energy’s long-term baseload generation needs in the Carolinas . 
Our focus in nuclear operations has always been on safety . 
That will never change . We will learn from the events in Japan 
and apply those lessons to ensure that safety remains our 
top priority, now and in the future .

the project, from approximately 19 percent 
to about 16 percent for customers overall. 
The impact to the average residential 
homeowner would be about 14 percent. 

With commission approval, this would 

effectively bring the project’s near-term 
rate impact to approximately the same 
level as under the currently approved 
$2.35 billion cost estimate.

In addition to our investments in new 

coal units, we have spent approximately 
$5 billion over the last decade to install 
emissions control equipment on many 
of our coal plants. As a result, we have 
reduced our sulfur dioxide emissions by 
73 percent, and nitrogen oxides emissions 
by 52 percent, over the past five years.

Natural Gas picking up Steam

Lower prices and relatively lower 
emissions are sparking renewed interest 
in natural gas as an alternative fuel for 
electricity generation. Shale gas extrac-
tion has boosted production in recent 
years, but environmental concerns about 
the shale fracturing process persist — in 
particular the amount of water and chemi-
cals required. Duke Energy continues to 
monitor developments related to shale gas.
Meanwhile, we continue to include 

natural gas as part of our diverse genera-
tion portfolio. 

We are building two 620-megawatt 

natural gas-fired combined-cycle 
generating units in North Carolina: one at 
Buck Steam Station and one at Dan River 
Steam Station. These cleaner-burning 
units will enable the retirement of older, 
less-efficient coal units at each site. 

The Buck project is more than 
75 percent complete and is expected to  
be in service during 2011. Construction 
recently began on the Dan River project, 
which is expected to be completed 
in 2012.

In Peru, Duke Energy 

International (DEI) completed its 
Las Flores thermoelectric power 
plant in 2010. This highly 
efficient 198-MW gas-fired 
turbine is DEI’s third natural 
gas power plant.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I’M aCCoUntaBle

Dhiaa Jamil 
Group Executive,  
Chief Generation officer 
and Chief Nuclear officer

A hallmark of the nuclear industry is working cooperatively 
to improve performance and safety. In this Q&A, Dhiaa Jamil 
provides the company’s perspective on the implications of the 
nuclear crisis in Japan.

What are the industry and Duke Energy doing to respond to the crisis in Japan?

As this emergency event unfolded, all u.S. chief nuclear officers participated in twice-daily phone 
conferences to understand what was happening in Japan, and what actions might be needed to 

a:
ensure the continued safe operation of our nuclear plants . We have also worked through national and 
international industry agencies to support our counterparts in Japan . 

Our industry takes very seriously our commitment to the safe operation of nuclear power plants .  
As an industry, we agreed early on to take the following short-term actions at u.S. nuclear plants: 

 ■ Reverify our capability to maintain safety during severe adverse events, including the loss of 
significant operational systems caused by natural events, fires, aircraft impact or explosions.

 ■  reverify our ability to respond to a loss of electric power by confirming that we have adequate 

materials and procedures in place . 

 ■  reverify our ability to respond to floods, including their impact on systems inside and outside the plant.

 ■  Perform walk downs and inspections of important equipment needed to successfully respond to 

fires and floods.

What measures are in place at U.S. nuclear facilities to ensure public safety?

Nuclear power plants are designed for safety, with multiple barriers and redundant and diverse 
safety systems. The ability to withstand natural events, such as earthquakes, tornadoes, floods 

a:
and hurricanes, was incorporated into the design of all U .S . nuclear plants . Plant designs also include 
additional “margin” above design requirements. Seismic hazards are based on plant location and geology, 
and the maximum predicted earthquake . 

In addition, all U .S . plants are designed to withstand a station blackout — the total loss of all 
alternating-current power . Duke Energy plants have on-site power sources beyond the regulatory 
minimum to provide additional safety margin . This includes, but is not limited to, diesel and steam-
driven generators/pumps, batteries, and independent support facilities that can be used in the event of 
an emergency. Post-Sept. 11 measures require u.S. nuclear plants to also be able to cope with significant 
destruction due to fires, explosions and aircraft impacts. Additionally, u.S. nuclear power plant operators 
have guidelines to follow in the unlikely event that a severe accident results in fuel damage, and we 
regularly practice our response to various severe accidents in emergency preparedness drills .

Will the events in Japan affect the future of the U.S. nuclear industry?

It’s premature to draw conclusions about the impact of the Japanese 
nuclear crisis on the U .S . The events in Japan will be thoroughly 

a:
analyzed in the coming months. The nuclear industry regularly studies and 
learns from shared operating experience . We will incorporate lessons 
learned from this event into the operation of our existing plants, as well 
as future plants, and continue to do whatever is necessary to ensure 
the safety of our communities .

Nuclear energy has been and will continue to play a key role in 
meeting America’s energy needs. Duke Energy is continuing 
with development activities for our proposed Lee Nuclear 
Station in order to make safe, reliable and affordable 
electricity available for our customers for years into 
the future .

Nuclear Remains an 
Important Resource 

Affordable, reliable and clean nuclear 
energy has been part of our generation mix 
for nearly 40 years. And, with zero carbon 
emissions, it is an important clean-energy 
resource for the future.

Safety has always been the highest 
priority in our nuclear operations. Along 
with the entire nuclear energy industry 
worldwide, we are engaged in the events 
in Japan. Our industry will work together 
to clearly understand the effects of the 
earthquake and tsunami on the Japanese 
nuclear plants. And, we will incorporate 
lessons learned from that experience into 
our current operations — as well as into 
our planning for new nuclear units — to 
further ensure the safety of our plants,  
our employees and our communities. 

Duke Energy remains committed to 
pursuing a combined construction and 
operating license (COL) for the proposed 
Lee Nuclear Station in South Carolina. 
The COL application to the U.S. Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission is for two 
Westinghouse AP1000™ reactors, which 
have highly advanced technology to ensure 
plant safety and reliability. We anticipate 
receiving the COL in the 2013 time frame.
If approved and built, the 2,234-
mewagatt facility will significantly reduce 
the company’s carbon footprint. Lee 
Nuclear Station would also help stimu-
late the region’s economy through job 
creation and tax revenues, while meeting 
customers’ need for clean, affordable and 
reliable electricity. 

Increasing hydroelectric Capacity
We continue to enjoy the environ-
mental and peaking-power benefits of 
our company’s oldest generation type — 
renewable hydroelectric power.

Duke Energy’s Jocassee Pumped-

Storage Hydroelectric Station is 

replacing two turbines to increase 
capacity by 50 megawatts by 
summer 2011. These are the first 
upgrades to Jocassee units 1 and 2 
since they began commercial opera-
tion in 1973. Units 3 and 4 were 
upgraded in 2006 and 2007.

 
 
 
27

DEI Brazil is building two small hydro-

electric plants (16 MW each), expected 
to be complete in the 2011-2012 time 
frame. The Retiro and Palmeiras plants 
are located on the Mirim Sapucal river 
in Sao Paulo State. 

Read about Duke Energy’s use 
of renewable energy in the Innovative 
Products and Services section of this 
report. 

aLGaE CaRBoN CapTuRE 
TESTING ShowS pRomISE

Partnering on research and development 
is one way to accelerate the development 
of cleaner and more affordable energy 
technologies. 

In 2010, Duke Energy and ENN Group, 

one of our Chinese partners, conducted 
a joint study to test the ability of various 
strains of algae to remove carbon dioxide 
(CO2) from coal-fired power plant emissions. 
This was the first study to use CO2 from 
power-plant flue gas instead of pure CO2.
Using a mobile algae unit that was 
designed and built by ENN Group, we 
set up a test site at Duke Energy’s East 
Bend Station in Kentucky to conduct the 
three-month study. Since algae, like all 
plants, use CO2 in photosynthesis, carbon 
emissions can serve as feedstock for the 
plant’s growth. Workers piped in controlled 
amounts of flue gas from the plant stack 
emissions directly into a series of large test 
tubes containing different algae strains and 
various sources of station water. The next 
phase of testing will study the potential 
use of the algae in products such as 
animal feed and fertilizer.

The team of scientists found that 
several strains of algae grew just as well 
using flue gas instead of pure CO2, an 
important indicator that these strains could 
be a good fit for potential CO2 mitigation. 
Further research will help determine if 
algae can become a low-cost solution to 
absorb a portion of flue gas CO2. To that 
end, we have submitted a large-scale 
demonstration project for funding by the 
U.S.-China Energy Research Center.
This joint study is one of several 
carbon-capture technologies Duke Energy 

Duke Energy’s Jocassee Hydroelectric Station, a 
pumped-storage facility in Upstate South Carolina

Recreational use is just one reason to protect our 
valuable water resources .

is pursuing in our efforts to reduce 
carbon emissions.

waTER: a LImITED RESouRCE

Water is a critical resource to Duke Energy 
and the communities we serve. Rivers 
and reservoirs serve as the backbone of 
our generation fleet by providing hydro-
power and cooling water for our nuclear 
and fossil plants. At the same time, these 
water resources also support public water 
systems, industries, wildlife and recreation. 
In 2010, demand for water continued 

to rise, and drought conditions returned 
to portions of Duke Energy’s service 
territory. With limited opportunities to 
develop additional reservoirs, Duke Energy 
continues to work with government, 
community and private-sector partners  
to effectively manage water resources in 
the following three areas: 

managing water Supplies
 ■ In early 2010, the Catawba-

 to explore ways to 

Wateree Water Management Group 
(CW-WMG) won a matching research 
grant from the Water Research 
Foundation 
enhance water resources in the basin. 
The Foundation convened a panel of 
world-renowned experts to study the 
safe yield of the Catawba-Wateree 
River Basin and how it compares 
to similar basins around the world. 
Further study will take place in 2011. 
The CW-WMG is a nonprofit corpo-
ration composed of Duke Energy 
Carolinas and 18 public water system 

owners in the Catawba-Wateree 
River Basin.

 ■ The Keowee-Toxaway Hydroelectric 

 got under way 

Relicensing Project 
in 2010, using a stakeholder-driven 
process similar to what was used for 
the Catawba-Wateree Hydroelectric 
Project 
 relicensing effort. Duke 
Energy has updated a U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers reservoir opera-
tions model and conducted a water 
supply assessment in the Upper 
Savannah Basin as part of preliminary 
relicensing work.

 ■ The South Carolina Surface Water 

Withdrawal Permitting bill was passed 
into law in 2010. This new legislation 
requires most surface water intake 
owners to obtain a permit from the 
state environmental agency before 
withdrawing water — helping ensure 
appropriate allocation of future water 
use. Duke Energy provided valuable 
leadership during the stakeholder 
negotiation process associated with 
this legislation.

managing water Demand
 ■ In 2007, the Supreme Court agreed 

to hear a case filed by South Carolina 
against North Carolina for equitable 
sharing of water resources in the 
Catawba River. The court allowed 
Duke Energy to participate as an 
intervenor in the case. In 2010, the 
case was settled by the parties and 
dismissed by the Supreme Court. The 
Comprehensive Relicensing Agreement 

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

 
28

 for Duke Energy’s Catawba-

(CRA) 
Wateree Hydroelectric Project was 
used as the basis for the settlement. 
The CRA, which was signed by 70 
stakeholders in 2006 after three years 
of negotiation, includes procedures for 
conserving water during droughts and 
studying future water demands. This 
settlement has been called a model 
for how states should work together to 
preserve shared natural resources.

 ■ The Catawba-Wateree WMG 

commissioned a survey of demand-
management best practices across 
the U.S. Survey results have been 
used to identify measures that will be 
implemented by public water systems 
in the basin. 

 ■ Duke Energy and the Catawba-

Wateree WMG are jointly funding 
a three-year study by N.C. State 
University to assess “smart” irrigation 
technologies that could help lakeside 
residents better manage their lawn 
watering systems. Year three of this 
effort is getting under way in 2011.

weB eXClUsIve Content

 ■ Greening Our Vehicle Fleet
 ■ reducing landfill Waste
 ■ Moving to a Culture of Less Printing
 ■ restoring Forests in Brazil
 ■ Climate Change Adaptation research 

Gaining Ground

 ■ Duke Energy Gives Endangered 

Mammals a Platform for Survival
 ■ Preserving Argentina’s Paleontological 

Heritage

 ■ Environmental Leadership Recognition

VIDEO

Algae Carbon 
Capture Testing

managing Drought
 ■ The Catawba-Wateree Low Inflow 
Protocol (LIP), established during 
Duke Energy’s efforts to relicense its 
Catawba-Wateree Project, helps the 
company and other major water users 
in the basin conserve water supplies 
during droughts. This protocol is being 
implemented on a voluntary basis 
until the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission issues a new license. It 
is also being evaluated for potential 
improvements, based on lessons 
learned during the record-breaking 
drought in 2007-2008. In 2010, 
Stage 1 of the LIP was implemented 
as drought conditions returned to 
the basin. This stage recommends 
voluntary conservation by water users 
across the basin.

 ■ Work continues on the installation of 
a network of gauges in the Catawba-
Wateree Basin to better understand 
how groundwater affects surface 
water availability during droughts. 
The project is scheduled for comple-
tion in 2012.

SIGNIfICaNT powER SaVINGS  
aT DaTa CENTERS

Due to their rapid growth and considerable 
energy consumption, data centers have an 
increasingly large carbon footprint.

In November 2010, Duke Energy 
and the Electric Power Research Institute 
(EPRI) 
 released preliminary results of 
a pilot project showing that data centers 
operating on direct current (DC), rather 
than alternating current (AC), can cut 
their power usage by 10 to 20 percent. 
And, those figures could double when the 
added energy savings due to lower cooling 
requirements are taken into account. 

Most large data centers run on AC 
power — creating inefficiencies as power 
is repeatedly converted back and forth 
from AC to DC. Those conversions also 
generate heat — resulting in increased air 
conditioning costs in order to maintain the 
servers and other equipment.

Working with EPRI, we converted part 

of a Duke Energy data center in North 

We are finding ways to make our customers’ and our 
own data centers more energy efficient.

Carolina to operate only on DC power. 
The servers and storage banks operated 
normally with approximately 15 percent 
less power.

Because DC equipment can be 

retrofitted for use with existing equipment, 
DC power is not limited to new or large 
enterprise operations. That’s good news 
for the more than 2.5 million smaller 
data centers across the United States 
looking for inexpensive ways to cut costs. 
Based on federal projections, EPRI says 
that reducing those data centers’ energy 
consumption could save up to 25 billion 
kilowatt-hours of energy annually.

The use of DC power is just one 

approach Duke Energy is exploring 
to reduce data center energy use and 
costs. Other key strategies include HVAC 
air optimization, data center consolida-
tion, server virtualization and replacing 
older equipment with more efficient 
computer hardware.

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRoNmENTaL pERfoRmaNCE mETRICS

29

2010 eleCtrICIty GenerateD (NET MEGAWATT-HourS) 1

2010 Electricity Generated*

Coal

Natural Gas/Oil

Total Fossil

Nuclear

Conventional Hydro

Wind

Solar

Total Carbon-Free

Pumped-Storage Hydro 2

Total

United States

Latin America

Total

MWh 
(thousands)

93,192

8,157

101,349

43,443

2,239

2,281

17

47,982

(689)

Percent

62 .7%

5 .5%

68 .2%

29 .2%

1 .5%

1 .5%

<1%

32 .3%

-0 .5%

MWh 
(thousands)

0

3,166

3,166

0

Percent

0%

17 .3%

17 .3%

0%

15,178

82 .7%

0

0

0%

0%

15,178

82 .7%

0

0%

MWh 
(thousands)

93,192

11,323

104,515

43,443

17,417

2,281

17

63,159

(689)

Percent

55 .8%

6 .8%

62 .6%

26 .0%

10 .4%

1 .4%

<1%

37 .8%

-0 .4%

148,642

100 .0%

18,344

100 .0%

166,985

100 .0%

1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets. Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
2  Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces .

  55 .8%  Coal 
  26 .0%  Nuclear 
  10 .4% 

 Conventional 
Hydro
 Natural Gas/Oil

  6 .8%   
  1 .4%  Wind/Solar

*  Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled (0 .4%), consumes more 

energy than it produces . 

In 2010, as in 2009, almost 40 percent of the 
electricity we generated was from carbon-free 
sources, including nuclear, hydro, solar and wind .

2010 GeneratIon CapaCIty (MEGAWATTS) 1

2010 Generation Capacity*

Coal

Natural Gas/Oil

Total Fossil

Nuclear

Conventional Hydro

Solar

Wind

Total Carbon-Free

Pumped-Storage Hydro 2

Total

United States

Latin America

Total

MW

16,925

9,395

26,320

5,173

1,111

24

986

7,294

2,090

Percent

47 .4%

26 .3%

73 .7%

14 .5%

3 .1%

0 .1%

2 .8%

20 .4%

5 .9%

MW

0

1,294

1,294

0

2,909

0

0

2,909

0

Percent

0 .0%

30 .8%

30 .8%

0 .0%

69 .2%

0 .0%

0 .0%

69 .2%

0 .0%

35,704

100 .0%

4,203

100 .0%

MW

16,925

10,689

27,614

5,173

4,020

24

986

10,203

2,090

39,907

Percent

42 .4%

26 .8%

69 .2%

13 .0%

10 .1%

< 0 .1%

2 .5%

25 .6%

5 .2%

100 .0%

1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets. Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
2  Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces .

FUELS CONSUMED FOR U.S. ELECTRIC GENERATION 3

Coal (million tons)

Oil (million gallons)

Natural Gas (million decatherms)

2006

46 .5

—

—

2007

46 .8

23 .0

33 .7

2008

45 .0

22 .2

26 .8

2009

36 .1

18 .3

50 .7

3  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets.

water wItHDrawn anD ConsUMeD (BIllIoN GAlloNS)

Withdrawn

Consumed

4  Excludes Duke Energy International and Duke Energy Generation Services .
5  Excludes Duke Energy Generation Services .

2008 4

4,000

60

2009 5

3,800

74

2010

39.6

18.0

64.6

2010

3,900

88

 Natural Gas/Oil

  42 .4%  Coal 
  26 .8% 
  13 .0%  Nuclear
  10 .1% 

 Conventional 
Hydro

  2 .5%  Wind/Solar

*  Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled 5 .2%, consumes more energy 

than it produces . 

Our diverse generation portfolio reduces commodity 
price volatility and helps us meet our customers’ 
electricity needs in a sustainable way . 

fuels Consumed for u.S. Electric 
Generation
Fuels consumed increased in 2010 over 2009, due 
to the need for increased coal and natural gas 
generation to meet higher demand for electricity .

water withdrawn and Consumed
Water withdrawn is the total volume removed 
from a water source, such as a lake or a river . Due 
to once-through cooling systems on many of our 
coal-fired and nuclear plants, a large portion of this 
water is returned to the source and available to be 
used again . Water consumed is the amount of water 
removed for use and not returned to the source .

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

30

Emissions from Generation
Emission levels depend on many factors, including 
generation diversity and efficiency, demand for 
electricity, weather, fuel availability and prices, and 
emission controls deployed . Carbon dioxide (CO2) 
and nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions increased 
in 2010 over 2009 due to increased coal and 
natural gas generation, which resulted from 
increased demand for electricity . Sulfur dioxide 
(SO2) emissions decreased due to the addition 
of flue gas desulfurization (FGD) scrubbers. 
We have invested approximately $5 billion over 
the past decade to significantly reduce So2 and 
Nox emissions from our coal fleet. As a result, we 
have reduced SO2 emissions by 73 percent and 
Nox by 52 percent over the past five years. our 
CO2 emissions have decreased 5 percent over that 
same period, largely due to decreased demand for 
electricity. our modernization strategy will help us 
further reduce emissions . In addition, new nuclear, 
if built, along with new wind and solar, will help us 
deliver increasingly clean energy . 

u.S. Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)
Duke Energy’s TRI releases for 2010 were down 56 
percent since 2006, primarily due to the significant 
investments we’ve made in environmental controls 
for our power plants . However, our TRI releases for 
2010 increased 8 percent over 2009, primarily due 
to our use of more fossil-fueled electric generation 
to meet higher demand for electricity . In addition, 
less coal ash was beneficially used, due to 
decreased demand for construction materials . 

u.S. on-Road and off-Road Vehicle 
fleet Emissions and fuel Consumed
We have a goal to reduce nitrogen oxides, volatile 
organic compounds, particulate matter and carbon 
monoxide emissions from our on-road and off-road 
vehicle fleet by 35 percent by 2012 compared to 
2006 . From 2006 to 2010, emissions have been 
reduced by approximately 24 percent, and we are 
on track to meet this goal .

eMIssIons froM GeneratIon

Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions (thousand tons) 6
 U.S.
 Latin America
Total

Total CO2 Emissions Intensity (tons per net MWh) 
U.S. Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions (tons) 7
U.S. SO2 Emissions Intensity (pounds per net MWh) 
U.S. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Emissions (tons) 7

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

102,300

3,000

105,300

0 .63

108,500

3,100

111,600

0 .66

105,000

2,700

107,700

0 .66

90,800

2, 900

93,700

0 .59

97,600

2,300

99,900

0.60

817,700

682,300

427,700

239,800

221,200

11 .0

8 .9

5 .8

149,200

130,500

122,700

3 .4

64,800

0 .9

3.0

71,800

1.0

U.S. NOx Emissions Intensity (pounds per net MWh)

2 .0

1 .7

1 .7

6  CO2 reported from U .S . electric generation and Duke Energy International operations, and based on ownership share of generating assets .
7  SO2 and NOx reported from U .S . electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets .

U.S. SULFUR DIOxIDE AND NITROGEN OxIDES EMISSIONS (THouSAND ToNS) 8

  U .S . Sulfur Dioxide Emissions 

  U .S . Nitrogen Oxides Emissions

  900

  750

  600

  450

  300

  150

0 

2006 

2007 

2008 

2009 

2010

8   SO2 and NOx reported from U .S . electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets .

U.S. TOxIC RELEASE INVENTORy — TRI (THouSAND PouNDS) 9

Releases to Air

Releases to Water

Releases to Land

Off-Site Transfers

Total

2006

75,752

195

14,224

64

90,235

2007

59,584

224

15,593

92

75,492

2008

39,382

234

13,895

118

53,630

2009

24,318

211

11,753

509

36,790

2010

23,882

144

15,077

492

39,595

9  Data pertain to facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and where Duke Energy is the responsible reporting party . Totals may not add up exactly 

due to rounding .

U.S. ON-ROAD AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLE FLEET EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMED 10

Number of Vehicles

Fuel Consumed (thousand gallons)

Nitrogen Oxides (tons)

Volatile Organic Compounds (tons)

Particulate Matter (tons)

Carbon Monoxide (tons)

Total Emissions (tons)

2006 (Baseline)

5,396

7,800

486

73

24

718

1,301

2007

5,426

7,887

497

66

26

629

1,218

2008

5,460

7,569

449

59

24

649

1,181

2009

5,647

7,294

467

56

27

544

1,094

2010

5,637

7,118

414

47

25

497

984

10    This table represents just over 90 percent of our vehicle fleet. operation and fuel consumption are estimated where individual mileage, engine 

hours or fuel measurements are not available . These estimates are used for emissions calculations where necessary .  

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
 
accelerated main Replacement 
program (amRp)
In 2000, the AMrP was launched on Duke Energy’s 
natural gas distribution system in ohio and Kentucky 
to reduce leaks and improve safety, performance 
and reliability . The program accelerates replacement 
of approximately 1,400 miles of cast iron and bare 
steel pipe, some in service since 1873. The AMrP 
is complete in Kentucky, and more than 70 percent 
complete in Ohio . We are on track to meet our target 
of reducing repaired leaks by 20 percent by 2012 
compared to 2007 . Reducing leaks decreases the 
release of natural gas, which is mostly methane, a 
greenhouse gas approximately 20 times more potent 
than CO2 .

waste
We have a goal to increase the percentage of U .S . 
solid waste that is recycled from 52 percent in 
2008 to 62 percent by 2012 . Our nuclear plants also 
have a goal to reduce by 25 percent the amount of 
low-level radioactive waste 
generate by 2012, compared to the 2002 through 
2006 average of 1,552 cubic feet . To date, we are 
exceeding both of these goals .

 (Class B and C) they 

u.S. Electricity Consumed
We have a goal to reduce electricity consump-
tion at 13 of our largest commercial buildings by 
10 percent by 2012, compared to the 2005 through 
2007 average . We are on track to meet this goal .

Reportable oil Spills
Oil spills include releases of lubricating oil from 
generating stations, leaks from transformers or 
damage caused by third parties (typically due to 
auto accidents) .

31

ACCELERATED MAIN REPLACEMENT PROGRAM (AMRP)

2007

Reduction in Leaks Repaired (Since 2007 )

Baseline year

11 This differs from what was reported last year due to better available information .

2008

6%

2009

29% 11

2010

14%

Goal

20% by 2012

waste

U.S. Solid Waste 12 
 Total Generated (tons) 
 Percent Recycled
Hazardous Waste Generated (tons) 13

Low-level Radioactive Waste (Class B and C) 
Generated (cubic feet)

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

— 
—

—

— 
—

—

1,464

1,420

40,162 
52%

—

1,303

39,651 
55%

438

739

38,651 
63%

125

658 
(58% less  
than baseline)

12   All data exclude Duke Energy Generation Services, Duke Energy International and large, one-time projects. Weights are estimated based on 

volumes where necessary . Data not available for 2006-2007 .

13  Companywide data not available for 2006-2008 . 

U.S. ELECTRICITy CONSUMED

2005-2007 
Average (Baseline)

2006-2008 
Average

2007-2009  
Average

2008-2010  
Average

Electricity Consumption: 13 of Our Largest 
Commercial Buildings (megawatt-hours)

64,836

62,607

60,486

58,783  
(9% less than 
baseline)

reportaBle oIl spIlls 14

Spills

Gallons

2006

75

3,300

2007

79

28,900

2008

66

6,600

2009

92

4,700

2010

56

7,400

14  Data for 2006-2008 includes U .S . spills only . Duke Energy International spill data are included for later years .

envIronMental reGUlatory CItatIons 15

Citations

2006

12

2007

12 

2008

16

2009

20 16

2010

19

Fines/Penalties (dollars)

$8,850

$29,265,500 16

$141,657 

$2,805,525 16

$15,982

15  Includes international and u.S. federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties.
16   These historical values differ from what was reported last year and reflect judicial actions and corrections that were made after the report 

was published .

Environmental Regulatory Citations
No fines were associated with 14 of the 19 
citations in 2010 . In addition, $2,800 of the total 
2010 fines/penalties resulted from resolution of 
citations received prior to 2010 . The 2007 total 
fines/penalties figure includes proposed fines of 
approximately uS$29 million assessed by the Brazil 
State Environmental Agency of Parana (IAP), and 
approximately uS$270,000 by the Brazilian Institute 
of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources 

(IBAMA) for alleged violations related to reforesta-
tion . These amounts are higher than what was 
reported in 2009. one 2007 IAP fine was increased 
in 2011, resulting in the total IAP fines increasing to 
US$29 million . We are contesting these violations . 
In addition, 2009 total citations and fines/penalties 
have increased due to the addition of two interna-
tional citations totaling $16,235 in fines.

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

 
 
 
 
 
3

Quality  
Workforce

ChaLLENGES

 ■ Improve employee and contractor safety, especially in light of contractor 

fatalities in 2010.

 ■ Transfer knowledge and selectively hire new skills as baby boomers retire.

oppoRTuNITIES

 ■ Maintain our reputation as a preferred employer.
 ■ Improve diversity and effectively manage a multi-generational workforce.

2010 aND EaRLy 2011 hIGhLIGhTS

 ■ Achieved the best employee safety Total Incident Case Rate in company 

history, a 40 percent decrease from 2006.

 ■ Maintained high management and employee engagement, as measured 

by favorable scores on survey questions.

 ■ Deployed an improved employee performance management system.

SafETy: a ShaRED 
RESpoNSIBILITy

Duke Energy is committed to providing 
affordable, reliable and cleaner energy. 
But above all else, we’re committed to 
safety — in our workplaces and in our 
communities. We measure our annual 
safety performance through two measures:
 ■ Zero employee and contractor fatalities
 ■ Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 
— the number of recordable 
incidents per 100 workers (based 
on Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration criteria).

addressing Contractor fatalities

Tragically, five contractor fatalities 

overshadowed a year of employee 
safety improvements. We immediately 
investigated each incident — and 
shared lessons learned to reinforce key 
safety messages among employees and 
contractors who perform similar work. 
Additionally, throughout the year, 
management teams thoroughly reviewed 
roles, processes and procedures to deter-
mine exactly where safety improvements 
can and should be made. And, in late 
2010, we launched a Contractor Safety 
Performance Improvement Task Force, 
a team of senior leaders charged with 
developing a road map to the next level 
of safety results. 

Employee Safety performance

We exceeded our aggressive employee 

TICR target level in 2010, and our final 
number is the lowest in company history. 
Employee TICR has improved in each 
of the past five years, representing a 
40 percent improvement over our 2006 
rate. We are on track to meet our goal to 
be in the top decile by 2012. 

The 2010 employee Lost Workday 
Case Rate (LWCR) improved as well. The 
LWCR is the actual number of lost workday 
cases in a year, per 100 workers. A lost 
workday case is an occupational injury 
or illness that results in one or more days 
away from work. Compared to 2006, 
our 2010 employee LWCR represents 
a 34 percent improvement.

33

 ■ Benchmarking regularly to make 

sure compensation and benefits are 
competitive with similar companies
 ■ Better aligning pay with performance 
through an improved performance 
management process.

DEVELopING a DIVERSE aND 
INCLuSIVE woRkfoRCE

Diversity and inclusion are business priori-
ties at Duke Energy. Simply put, diversity 
means we employ people with a variety 
of characteristics and backgrounds, and 
inclusion means we value their differences 
and similarities. Together, diversity and 
inclusion leverage our individual perspec-
tives and experiences to achieve stronger 
business results. 

One measure of our success is the 
composition of our workforce. In 2010, 
we saw a slight increase in the percentage 
of females in management, though our 
other demographic metrics remained 
constant. Although we may be in line 
with peer companies, we’re working to 
further diversify our workforce.

safety at DUke enerGy

Employee and Contractor Work-Related Fatalities

Employee Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 1

Employee Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 2

Contractor Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 1

2006

4

1 .51

0 .35

—

2007

2

1 .25

0 .26

—

2008

0

1 .15

0 .28

—

2009

3

1 .00

0 .23

1 .21 3

2010

5

0.90

0.23

1.07

1  Number of recordable incidents per 100 workers (based on oSHA criteria). Top decile in 2009 for employee TICr was 0.69 (based on the latest 

data available from the Edison Electric Institute) . 

2  Number of lost workday cases per 100 workers
3  First year compiled and reported . This differs from what was reported last year, based on more complete and accurate contractor data made 

available after the 2009/2010 report was published .

 ■ Continuing to partner with universities 
and technical colleges on energy-
related training

 ■ Offering on-the-job training and other 
development opportunities, including 
rotational programs for early-career 
professionals

 ■ Strengthening supervisory effective-

ness with an enhanced curriculum for 
first-time supervisors

 ■ Using succession planning to identify 

and develop talent to fill key leadership 
positions

I’M aCCoUntaBle

Tony Gilday 
Environmental, Health and Safety Professional  
New Richmond, Ohio

TaLENT maNaGEmENT 
fuNDamENTaL  
To SuSTaINaBILITy

Duke Energy’s future success largely 
depends on the quality and skills of our 
workforce. As veteran employees prepare 
for retirement, we’re planning for our future 
workforce — with skills that align with 
evolving business strategies. 

As the table indicates, younger 

employees (“Generation X” and 
“Millennials”) are a growing portion of 
our workforce — from 32 percent in 
2009 to 36 percent in 2010.

foUr GeneratIons In DUke enerGy’s 
U.S. WORKFORCE

Traditionalists (born before 1946)

Baby Boomers (born 1946-1964)

Generation x (born 1965-1981)

Millennials (born after 1981)

2009

1%

67%

27%

5%

2010

1%

63%

29%

7%

As the “Baby Boomers” move into 
retirement, we must continue to attract 
high-quality talent and transfer institu-
tional knowledge to a new generation. To 
preserve our talent advantage, we are:
 ■ Identifying needs for new skills in 

areas like smart grid, fleet moderniza-
tion and renewable energy, as well as 
fundamental skills essential to keeping 
the lights on for our customers
 ■ Forecasting retirements to identify 

future talent needs and risk of critical-
knowledge gaps

 ■ Developing a talent pipeline through 

strategic hiring and sourcing programs, 
such as cooperative and intern positions 

I’m accountable for the safety of our employees and 
contractors at three of Duke Energy’s coal plants in Ohio . 
But, really, we’re all accountable for each other’s safety . We think about this every morning during 
our safety briefings when we talk about safety on the job and at home. Home safety is important — if 
our workers are safe at home, they’re much more likely to be safe at work, too .

We hold all-day “human performance” improvement sessions throughout the year . These give us a 
chance to react to real-life safety incidents . Nearly every participant has experienced an “aha” moment 
during the training . In fact, one of our vendor partners recently hired its own safety professional in 
response to one of our sessions . The new hire trains the vendor’s employees on safety issues and 
performs safety audits. This work will not only benefit our own operations, but other work throughout 
our communities . Safety is contagious, and this partner really “gets it .”

I look forward to the next phase of our human performance program, which will include our front-line 
hourly employees and contractors . Because, even though last year’s overall safety statistics were 
among the best in our company’s history, we cannot and will not lower our expectations for the future . 

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

34

In our Communities

Duke Energy supports educational 

programs for women and minorities 
throughout the U.S. We fund scholarships, 
student groups and educational-advance-
ment programs. We also sponsor job 
fairs and other programs for student and 
professional organizations that support the 
development of minorities and women.

Diversity Steering Teams

Duke Energy’s Diversity Steering 
Teams work to improve employee engage-
ment and build an inclusive culture. 
Through dialogue, training and local 
projects, these teams foster an under-
standing of differences and similarities 
among employees in the departments 
they represent. 

Employee Resource Groups

Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) 
are networks of employees with common 
interests or experiences. Open to all 
employees, ERGs aim to support business 
needs, align with company goals and strat-
egies, promote understanding and provide 
a stronger sense of community. Employees 
organize and manage the groups, which 
provide educational, networking and 
mentoring opportunities, as well as 
seminars and conferences, for members.

Our ERGs include:

woRkfoRCE pERfoRmaNCE mETRICS

workforCe statIstICs

1/31/07 1

 12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09

12/31/10

 18,053 

Full- and Part-Time Employees
 United States
 International
Collective Bargaining Unit/Union Members as Percent of Workforce
  U .S . (members of a collective bargaining unit)
 International (dues-paying members of a union)
1  After Spectra Energy spinoff

 17,100 

35 .3%

27 .1%

 953 

 18,117 

 17,045 

 1,072 

25 .5%

30 .2%

 18,548 

 17,429 

 1,119 

25 .2%

27 .4%

 18,683 

 17,581 

 1,102 

24 .7%

26 .2%

 18,439 

 17,293 

 1,146

24.6%

25.4%

U.S. WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS 2

1/31/07 3

 12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09

12/31/10

Ethnic Diversity as Percent of Workforce
 White
 Black/African American
 Hispanic/Latino
 Asian
 American Indian/Alaska Nation
  Native Hawaiian/other Pacific Islander  
(new category for 2010 reporting)
 Not specified
Females/Minorities as Percent of Workforce/Management
 Females as percent of workforce
 Females as percent of management 
 Minorities as percent of workforce
 Minorities as percent of management

86 .6%

11 .2%

0 .9%

0 .9%

0 .3%

—

0 .1%

22 .6%

17 .6%

13 .3%

7 .8%

86 .6%

11 .3%

0 .9%

0 .8%

0 .3%

—

0 .2%

22 .6%

17 .2%

13 .3%

8 .0%

86 .7%

11 .2%

0 .9%

0 .8%

0 .3%

—

0 .1%

22 .6%

15 .5%

13 .3%

7 .9%

86 .9%

11 .0%

0 .9%

0 .9%

0 .3%

—

0 .0%

22 .6%

16 .3%

13 .1%

7 .6%

86.4%

11.2%

1.1%

1.0%

0.3%

0.0%

0.0%

22.9%

17.2%

13.6%

7.6%

2  Ethnic diversity and gender data are not captured for Duke Energy International employees .
3  After Spectra Energy spinoff

U.S. EMPLOyEE TURNOVER SUMMARy

reason
 Severance package volunteers
 Resignations
 Retirements
  Employees who were notified they did not have a position in the 
company and elected to leave with a severance package 4
 Dismissals
Total Turnover

Total U.S. Employees

Turnover as a Percent of Workforce

Percentage of Employees Eligible to Retire in 5 years 5

Percentage of Employees Eligible to Retire in 10 years 5

2007

2008

2009

2010

405

244

218

114

46

1,027

17,045

6 .0%

—

—

210

304

190

18

96

818

17,429

4 .7%

—

—

14

238

205

12

127

596

17,581

3 .4%

50 .9%

67 .9%

 686 

 284 

 197 

 27 

 144 

 1,338 

 17,293 

7.7%

50.9%

66.7%

Duke Energy employees in Plainfield, Ind.

which they could look for other employment opportunities within Duke Energy .

5  Eligible to retire is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least 5 years of service.

4   Employees whose jobs were affected by restructuring were offered an option to transfer into a “transition pool” for a six-month period, during 

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT woRkfoRCE pERfoRmaNCE mETRICS

I’M aCCoUntaBle

Dennis Wood 
Vice President,  
Real Estate Services

In this Q&A, Dennis Wood discusses the Workplace of the Future 
design concept that defines our new corporate headquarters, 
how it reinforces our company’s culture, and how it will change 
our workspaces in the future.

What is the Workplace of the Future concept?

The goal of the Workplace of the Future is to foster a highly creative and productive workforce 
a:
through open and transformative work environments, complete with energy efficient designs and 
the latest technologies . The program complements other better-known initiatives — like the U .S . Green 
Building Council’s lEED program — by combining energy efficiency and the use of sustainable materials 
with forward-thinking designs for workspaces and furnishings .

Why is Duke Energy creating the Workplace of the Future? 

Fresh and energetic environments are vital to our company’s success as we work to attract and 
retain top talent in today’s challenging and highly competitive marketplace . The move to our new 

a:
corporate headquarters — the Duke Energy Center, which was awarded platinum-level lEED certification 
— gave us the perfect opportunity to develop a creative work environment that can be replicated 
throughout our system, cost-effectively and sustainably . We feel our progressive workplace concepts  
will help drive innovation, collaboration and creativity throughout our company .

How were sustainable design principles incorporated into the Duke Energy Center? 

Key workplace design features include more natural light, ergonomic design, a balance of 
collaborative and individual space, energy efficient water usage, furniture made from recyclable 

a:
and reusable materials, informal areas for socializing and new technologies. 

The Workplace of the Future concept allows for flexibility, too. We developed multiple work “styles” within 
a common footprint, so that each workspace can be customized as locations and work habits change.  
The customization is also highly cost-effective and significantly reduces new waste streams.

How have employees reacted?

The employee response is overwhelmingly positive . They appreciate the open, community 
environment, while still having access to private workspaces . In the coming months, we will 

a:
solicit detailed employee feedback, which we’ll use as we plan for future projects .

Where are the Workplace of the Future design principles being applied?

We initially piloted many of the design concepts in 2009 in the renovated Lafayette Operations 
Center in Indiana . This past year, we used Workplace of the Future elements while renovating 

a:
parts of the historic 4th & Main building in Cincinnati, the regulated-
trading floor at our former Charlotte headquarters and our 
Governmental Affairs office in Indianapolis. We also applied 
the design features to our new Cherokee Operations 
Center in Whittier, N .C .

We are developing a formalized design standard that 
incorporates both Workplace of the Future and LEED 
design principles for our various facility types and 
business operations . We are making a long-term  
commitment to provide highly functional, cost-
effective and sustainable facilities that bring out 
the best in our employees, wherever they work .

 ■ African-American Network
 ■ Business Women’s Network
 ■ Latinos United Cultivating Energy 

and Service

 ■ Leadership Development Network.

Duke Energy also sponsors employee 

chapters of Women in Nuclear, Young 
Generation in Nuclear, Toastmasters and 
American Association of Blacks in Energy.

‘Best of the Best’ Company

In 2010, Duke Energy was named 
a “Best of the Best” company by three 
employment magazines: Black Equal 
Opportunity Employment Journal, 
Professional Woman’s Magazine and 
Hispanic Network Magazine. The publica-
tions included Duke Energy in their listings 
of top energy, oil and utility companies.

weB eXClUsIve Content

 ■ Former HQ Earns ENErGy STAr® 

Certification

 ■ Safety: Seeing is Believing
 ■ The 3 Rs of Working Safely
 ■ Employee Wellness Programs Focus 

on Prevention

 ■ Employee Satisfaction Remains High
 ■ Putting Sustainable Thinking to Work
 ■ Duke Energy Brazil Honored
 ■ Employees recognized with James B. 

Duke Awards

VIDEO

What It’s Like 
to Work as a 
Line Tech

 
 
 
 
 
4

Strong  
Communities

ChaLLENGES

 ■ Encourage economic development in the continuing sluggish economy.
 ■ Help the communities we serve stay competitive with other regions.

oppoRTuNITIES

 ■ Help attract jobs to our service territories as high unemployment persists.
 ■ Use our community programs to strengthen the regions we serve.

2010 aND EaRLy 2011 hIGhLIGhTS

 ■ Provided competitively priced, reliable electricity in each of our five 

states.

 ■ Helped attract almost $5.8 billion in capital investments and nearly 

14,000 new jobs.

 ■ Contributed almost $29 million to our communities (includes contribu-
tions from The Duke Energy Foundation and the company, along with 
employee and retiree donations and the value of their volunteer time).

2010 ECoNomIC DEVELopmENT 
GoaLS ExCEEDED

Duke Energy’s business success depends 
on the strength of the communities we 
serve. Our work in economic development 
is focused on attracting investments that 
expand economies and create jobs in our 
five-state service area. 

We work closely with state and local 

officials to position competitive energy 
costs as a key differentiator for companies 
looking to locate or expand operations. 
We also serve in key leadership positions 
in local and regional economic develop-
ment organizations. This work has become 
even more important in light of the weak 
economy and increasing competition 
among regions to attract business growth.
In 2010, Duke Energy’s economic 

development efforts helped state, 
regional and local government officials 
attract almost $5.8 billion in capital 
investments and nearly 14,000 new 
jobs, greatly exceeding our goals. (These 
results reflect new capital investments 
and jobs; they do not take into account 
business closures and job losses due to 
the economic downturn.)

To read about notable economic 
development highlights over the past 
year, see the rest of this article in the 
Strong Communities section of our 
online Sustainability Report. 

CoNTRIBuTING  
To ouR CommuNITIES

An important way we strengthen our 
communities is through our financial 
support. Charitable giving from The Duke 
Energy Foundation and the company, 
along with employee and retiree donations 
and the value of their volunteer time, 
totaled almost $29 million in 2010. 
This is in line with our annual giving in 
recent years and on par with industry 
benchmarks. 

37

2010 CHarItaBle GIvInG

The Duke Energy Foundation

Other company cash contributions and 
 gifts and services
in-kind 

Cash contributions from employees 
and retirees

Value of our employees’ and retirees’ 
volunteer time

Total Charitable Giving

$15 .8 million

$  3 .0 million

$  5 .5 million

$  4 .5 million

$28.8 million

Through corporate and regional 
contributions councils, The Duke Energy 
Foundation awarded grants based on the 
needs of the community and in alignment 
with our areas of focus: 
 ■ Community vitality — 63 percent 

($8.7 million)

 ■ Economic development, including 

educational initiatives — 28 percent 
($3.9 million)

 ■ Environment and energy efficiency — 

9 percent ($1.2 million).

Another $2 million was given by The 

Duke Energy Foundation to fund matching 
gifts and volunteer grants for employees 
and retirees in 2010. 

In addition to charitable giving of 
nearly $29 million in 2010, Duke Energy 
invested almost $4.7 million in our 
communities to support regulatory agree-
ments and other business initiatives. 

For instance, Duke Energy Carolinas 

continued to share its bulk power 
marketing (BPM) profits by providing 
over $1.7 million toward education and 
$1.5 million for low-income energy 
assistance programs. BPM profits come 
from off-system sales of power on the 
open market. 

Low-income energy assistance 
programs in Indiana (Helping Hand), 
Kentucky (WinterCare) and Ohio 
(HeatShare) received $747,000 from 
Duke Energy and almost $262,000 from 
employee and customer contributions. 
Similar programs in the Carolinas — like 
Share the Warmth, Cooling Assistance and 
Fan Relief — are funded from a variety of 
sources, including customer and employee 
contributions (which totaled nearly 
$592,000 in 2010).

As part of the Catawba-Wateree 
Comprehensive Relicensing Agreement 
in the Carolinas, we invested approxi-
mately $710,000 to improve water use 
and management and to enhance aquatic 
habitat and fish populations.

I’M aCCoUntaBle

Brett Carter 
President, 
Duke Energy 
North Carolina 

In the following Q&A, Brett Carter discusses 
the transformative role the energy industry 
can play in stimulating the economy. 

Did economic development get any easier in 
North Carolina during the past year?

I’d say there were many factors that made 
economic development less challenging this past 

a:
year . North Carolina lawmakers and the Department of 
Commerce were extremely engaged, giving us the right 
environment and tools to allow economic develop-
ment to thrive during the downturn. And it paid 
off, illustrated by an abundance of 
economic development announcements 
that garnered national attention and 
accolades . However, when you’re the 
lead dog, the competition is eager to 
take your place . To stay ahead of the 
pack, North Carolina must continue to 
look forward, with a clear focus on its 
competitive advantages . 

What are the keys to success when working with companies looking to site 
or expand their operations?

Ultimately, the key to success is our ability to provide affordable, reliable 
and clean energy, coupled with superior customer service. As rising 

a:
energy costs increasingly represent a larger portion of business expenses, the 
cost of energy has become one of the most important factors in site selection 
criteria . We proactively identify opportunities for our customers to take control of 
their energy costs through energy efficiency programs and services. Additionally, 
strong collaborations with local chambers of commerce, regional partnerships 
and other organizations focused on economic development are instrumental 
in the process . 

How is the city of Charlotte, N.C., doing in its quest to become an 
energy hub?

Charlotte has experienced tremendous success as it fulfills its 
a:
dream and destiny to become “the new energy capital .” 
According to the Charlotte regional Partnership, 240 energy or energy-
related companies employ nearly 27,000 people in Charlotte and 
its surrounding counties . Since 2007, Charlotte has created 

approximately 5,000 new energy-related jobs . The Queen City 

has been in the national spotlight for its efforts, and continues 
to attract the interest of energy-related companies for 
possible manufacturing facilities and/or headquarters . 

For more Q&As with Brett Carter, please  
visit the Strong Communities section  
of our Sustainability Report online. 

 
 
 
 
 
38

EmpLoyEES aND RETIREES 
makE a DIffERENCE

Volunteerism is a tradition at Duke Energy 
and one that our employees and retirees 
embrace. To support their efforts, Duke 
Energy created Volunteers In Action, an 
online database where employees can 
submit, search and sign up for volunteer 
opportunities across our service territories. 
We also provide financial support 

for our employees’ volunteer efforts 
— including grants for “sweat equity” 
projects completed by employees, and 
board leadership grants for employees and 
retirees who serve on the boards of direc-
tors of qualifying organizations. In 2010, 
we estimate that approximately 5,100 
volunteers spent 215,000 hours partici-
pating in 600 projects in more than 160 
U.S. communities.

At the heart of Volunteers In Action 
is the annual Global Service Event (GSE), 
a companywide grassroots campaign to 
make a concerted impact on the commu-
nities we serve. Employees and retirees 
identify needs in the community, organize 
projects, recruit volunteers and provide 
project leadership.

During the 2010 GSE event, we 
estimate that approximately 3,000 Duke 
Energy employees, retirees and their 
family members and friends participated in 
almost 350 community projects between 
May and June. Their efforts assisted more 
than 260 charitable organizations.

pRomoTING SuSTaINaBLE 
ENERGy IN ThE DEVELopING 
woRLD

Duke Energy is a member of e8 
worldwide organization of electric utilities 
founded in 1992 to promote sustain-
able energy development in the world’s 
emerging nations.

, a 

The 10 members of e8 are among 
the largest electricity companies in the 
world, representing Brazil, Canada, France, 
Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and the U.S.
The e8 companies develop projects 
that bring clean energy to some of the 2 
billion people around the world who — in 
2011 — still have no access to electricity.

The member companies also develop 

training programs to ensure that clean 
energy projects eventually can be turned 
over to, and managed by, citizens of the 
targeted regions.

In 2010, Duke Energy assumed 
leadership of the organization’s graduate 
scholarship program and invested in two 
projects: the construction of a combined 
wind energy and water desalinization 
facility in Tunisia; and a training program 
for energy and finance ministers in Latin 
America, focused on improving energy 
investment opportunities in their countries.

BRINGING SafE ELECTRICITy 
To RuRaL aREa IN pERu

Duke Energy International invested more 
than $165,000 in electricity infrastructure 
to support 120 families in the La Ramada 
Alta community near the company’s 
Carhauquero hydroelectric power plant 
in Peru. 

What little energy the community 
had been receiving was through illegal 
connections that posed serious safety 
risks. This project benefits the community 
by providing safe and reliable electricity, 
improving the quality of life, and offering 
programs to promote energy awareness 
and safety.

joB TRaINING pRoGRam 
paSSES $10 mILLIoN maRk

Duke Energy’s grant program to improve 
job training in the Carolinas reached a key 
milestone in 2010. The Community and 
Technical College Grant program 
 has 
now awarded over $10 million to support 
more than 50 separate training initiatives 
at North Carolina’s community colleges.
Created in 2004, the grant program 
is a way for Duke Energy to share its bulk 
power marketing profits with communities 
in our North Carolina service area. More 
than 5,000 workers have received 
training offered through the Duke Energy-
funded programs at 21 community 
colleges. And more than 900 new jobs 
have been created as a result of a better 
trained workforce. In South Carolina, 
a similar program called AdvanceSC 
has provided more than $15 million 
in education grants to high schools 
and colleges.

Innovative partnerships like this 
— between education systems, major 
employers and our company — demon-
strate the real and tangible work that is 
taking place to re-energize economies 
in the regions we serve.

weB eXClUsIve Content

 ■ Strategy to Attract Data Centers Paying off
 ■ Site Readiness Program Expands to Ohio 

and Kentucky

 ■ Challenging K-12 Students to be 

Energy Efficient

 ■ Can You Meet Tomorrow’s Energy 

 ■ Duke Energy among Top 10 Utilities for 

Challenge?

Economic Development

 ■ Helping Low-income Families Improve 

 ■ Enabling Communities to Become More 

Water Quality

Sustainable

 ■ Duke Energy International Building Homes 

 ■ Working with Tribal Leaders to Site 

for Families in Need

Electrical Tie Station

VIDEO

Partnering on a 
New Data Center

VIDEO

iPads for  
Elementary 
Classrooms

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
5

Governance and  
Transparency

ChaLLENGES

 ■ Maintain strong financial performance despite a sluggish economy.
 ■ Achieve timely and constructive regulatory recovery of our investments.
 ■ Successfully resolve property tax disputes in Ohio. 
 ■ Rebuild trust with stakeholders in Indiana.

oppoRTuNITIES

 ■ Maintain strong corporate governance ratings.
 ■ Attract additional investors who value sustainability.

2010 aND EaRLy 2011 hIGhLIGhTS

 ■ Continued to aggressively manage operating and maintenance expenses.
 ■ Increased the quarterly dividend from $0.24 to $0.245 per share in 

2010.

 ■ Outperformed the Philadelphia Utility Index in total shareholder return in 

2010 and over the past three and five years. 

39

fINaNCIaL pERfoRmaNCE 
STRoNG IN 2010

Financially, we exceeded our own expecta-
tions in 2010. Weather was a major factor, 
as extreme temperatures in both winter 
and summer increased demand for energy. 
But removing weather’s effects, we would 
still have had a strong year — due to solid 
operational performance, careful control of 
costs and the impacts of rate increases.

We posted year-end adjusted diluted 

earnings per share of $1.43, a 17 percent 
increase over our 2009 results of $1.22. 
Our total shareholder return (TSR) — 
the change in stock price plus dividends 
— was 9.5 percent for 2010, once again 
exceeding our peers as measured by the 
Philadelphia Utilities Index. TSR for the 
index of 20 electric utility companies, 
including Duke Energy, was 5.7 percent 
in 2010. Duke Energy has seen cumula-
tive TSR of 4.7 percent over the past three 
years, while the utility index TSR has been 
a negative 15.4 percent. Over five years, 
our cumulative returns have been 44.2 
percent, compared to 20.9 percent for 
the utility index. 

We’re seeing positive signs of slow  

but steady economic recovery. In our 
regulated service territories, excluding 
weather impacts, customer demand grew 
by nearly 2 percent in 2010 over 2009. 
This increase was principally driven by  
a 7 percent increase in sales to our  
industrial customers.

We held operations and maintenance 
expenses basically flat from 2007 through 
2009. Increases in 2010 were primarily 
due to extreme temperatures. 

We mitigated the financial impacts of 

customers switching suppliers in Ohio, 
where Duke Energy Retail, our competitive 
retail energy provider, was able to capture 
some of our lost margins.

For the 84th consecutive year, Duke 

Energy paid a quarterly cash dividend 
on our common stock in 2010. We also 
increased the quarterly dividend by a half-
cent per share, and we are committed to 
continuing to grow the dividend.

We continued our focus on maintaining 

the strength of the balance sheet. During 
2010, we issued $1.4 billion of fixed-rate 

40

fInanCIal HIGHlIGHts (IN MIllIoNS EXCEPT For PEr SHArE DATA) 1

Total operating revenues

Net income attributable to Duke Energy Corporation

Reported diluted earnings per share

Adjusted diluted earnings per share

Dividends per share

Total assets

Long-term debt including capital leases and variable interest entities,  
less current maturities 

2008

$13,207

$1,362

$1 .07

$1 .21

$0 .90

2009

$12,731

$1,075

$0 .83

$1 .22

$0 .94

2010

$14,272

$1,320

$1.00

$1.43

$0.97

$53,077

$57,040

$59,090

$13,250

$16,113

$17,935

1  See 2010 Duke Energy Annual report / Form 10-K Financial Highlights for detailed notes and explanations of figures above.

debt at a weighted-average rate of 3.8 
percent and an average maturity of approx-
imately eight years. Financing during this 
period of historically low interest rates 
helps us mitigate customer rate impacts.

INDIaNa hIRING ISSuE

Duke Energy’s reputation was challenged 
in 2010, after the company hired a 
regulatory attorney from the Indiana Utility 
Regulatory Commission (IURC).

When public concerns were raised due 

to the employee’s recent involvement in 
regulatory decisions involving Duke Energy, 
our management took immediate action.
Duke Energy has fully cooperated 

with the Indiana Inspector General’s 
investigation and with the IURC’s review 
of cases over which the attorney had 
presided. The company also promptly 
initiated internal and independent 
investigations of the matter.

After careful consideration, the 
employee was dismissed from the 
company, along with Duke Energy’s state 
president for Indiana. The head of our 
regulated operations later resigned, when 
inappropriate emails with state regulators 
also became public.

The company has changed its hiring 
practices to avoid similar situations in the 
future. All job applications now include 
pre-screening questions about candi-
dates’ previous responsibilities that might 
have involved Duke Energy’s interests. 
And, before we post a job with regulatory 
or oversight responsibilities, the hiring 
manager is consulted to determine the 
potential for conflicts of interest. If the 

potential is high, we apply a greater level 
of scrutiny throughout the hiring process. 
We are working diligently to rebuild 

trust with stakeholders in Indiana.

SuppLy ChaIN SuSTaINaBILITy

Duke Energy continues to collaborate with 
suppliers on sustainability, both individu-
ally and through the efforts of the Electric 
Utility Industry Sustainable Supply Chain 
Alliance 
in 2008. 

, which we helped found 

In 2010, consistent with Alliance best 

practices, we strengthened our process 
for taking environmental performance 
into account in the awarding of large 
contracts. Suppliers’ answers to more 
than 20 questions — about compliance, 
environmental management systems, 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy, 
water, waste and other topics — now help 
inform our buying decisions. 

Also in 2010, we completed an inven-

tory of energy use throughout our own 
supply chain operations. This baseline 
inventory was part of an Alliance initiative 
to reduce members’ GHG emissions, and 
to encourage suppliers to do so as well. In 
aggregate, Alliance members are targeting 
a 10 percent reduction in the energy use 
of their supply chain operations by 2015, 
from a 2008 baseline. 

The Alliance is also developing best 

practices to reduce the environmental 
impacts of significant categories of 
products such as poles, transformers,  
and wire and cable. Duke Energy is 
already implementing best practices, 
such as shipping poles directly to job sites 

to reduce fuel consumption and emissions. 
We also buy a significant portion of our 
wire and cable in “reel-less” bundles that 
we place on reusable steel spools mounted 
on our trucks. This avoids the use of large, 
heavy wooden reels, which have limited 
life spans.

Since 2006, Duke Energy has clearly 

established our expectations of vendors 
with our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
We expect our suppliers to conduct their 
business with the same regard for the 
environment, human rights, safety and 
quality that we expect of ourselves.

poLITICaL INVoLVEmENT

By participating in the political process, 
we ensure the voices of our company, 
customers, shareholders and other stake-
holders are heard in the public arena. 

Legislative and regulatory “strokes of 
the pen” pose some of the greatest risks to 
our business. Our lobbyists study proposed 
bills and regulations, consult with technical 
and financial specialists, and provide infor-
mation to lawmakers so they can make 
informed decisions.

In 2010, we spent nearly $7 million 

on reportable lobbying expenses at the 
federal and state levels to promote sound 
energy policy. Included in this amount 
is approximately $630,000 of our 2010 
federal trade association dues that were 
used for lobbying.

weB eXClUsIve Content

 ■ Crisis Management in the Age of  

Social Media

 ■ Paying Our Fair Share of Taxes 
 ■ Protecting the Dividend Tax Rate
 ■ Local and Regional Banks Invest in 

Duke Energy

 ■ CEo recognized for Influence in 

Corporate Governance

 ■ Diverse Supplier Spending Increases 

Slightly

 ■ Stakeholder Expectations and 

Fulfillments

 ■ Partnerships and Memberships

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  
41

We also give to “527” organizations 
— groups that advocate for issues and 
mobilize voters, but do not directly support 
or oppose candidates. In 2010, we contrib-
uted $550,000 to 527 organizations.

Duke Energy is legally prohibited from 
contributing directly to political candidates 
for elective federal offices in the United 
States, and it is similarly prohibited from 
making such contributions in certain 
states. In 2010, we contributed $68,000 
in the states where such contributions 
are allowed. 

Duke Energy did not provide funding 

for any electioneering communication 
or independent expenditure 
 during 

2010. These types of funding are used for 
pre-election communications that refer to 
specific candidates. 

Our Political Activity Policy 

 guides 

our corporate involvement and supports 
individual participation in the political 
process.

Employee participation

Many of our employees are politically 

active through DUKEPAC and Voices 
In Politics. 

A voluntary, nonpartisan political 
action committee, DUKEPAC encourages 
employee participation in the political 
process and makes contributions to 

qualified candidates for public office. Any 
DUKEPAC member may suggest political 
candidates for consideration by the board 
of trustees, which is made up of company 
employees. Through DUKEPAC, our 
employees contributed almost $824,000 
to state and federal candidates and 
political organizations in 2010.

Duke Energy pays the administrative 
costs of operating DUKEPAC, as allowed 
by law. All employee contributions go to 
the candidates and political organizations.
Voices In Politics (VIP), Duke Energy’s 

grassroots education and advocacy 
network, briefs employees on political 
issues and encourages them to actively 

I’M aCCoUntaBle

Jeff Browning 
Senior Vice 
President —  
Audit Services and 
Chief Ethics and 
Compliance officer

Jeff Browning reacts to a major challenge to the 
company’s reputation in 2010, and reaffirms 
expectations for ethical conduct for employees 
and leadership.

What do the recent issues in Indiana say about Duke Energy’s 
ethical culture? 

Despite being named one of the World’s Most 
a:
Ethical Companies for the past four years, we 
experienced ethics issues in Indiana . We are not proud 
that this situation occurred, but it should not be viewed 
as a broad indictment of our culture or a lack of 
commitment to operating ethically . 

our culture and organizational character are defined 
by how we operate every day, including how 
we address tough issues that arise . In this 
particular instance, we investigated the 
issues and then took decisive actions 
that were consistent with our values 
and operating practices . Those actions 
reinforce and support the strength 
and integrity of our ethical culture, 
as well as our unwavering commit-
ment to protecting and maintaining 
that culture .

How does Duke Energy reinforce the importance of ethical behavior 
throughout the company? 

The principles in our Code of Business Ethics (CoBE) help foster a 
a:
culture of integrity and accountability . This begins with the board of 
directors and extends to our employees, contract workers and suppliers . We 
set expectations regarding adherence to the CoBE, and we monitor compliance 
across the company, taking appropriate actions and providing training to 
reinforce expectations and ensure compliance. Additionally, we expect 
managers and supervisors to maintain and follow an “open door” policy, 
we provide anonymous mechanisms for reporting concerns, and we solicit 
periodic employee feedback on ethical operating practices through our 
Employee Opinion Survey .

 Reputations are built over a lifetime, but can be lost in an instant . Now, more 
than ever, we need every employee to do their best to help us restore public 
trust and confidence in our company.

Are any changes planned due to the missteps in Indiana? 

Ethics, like safety, is critical to our operations and to our ability to 
effectively serve all of our stakeholders . The hard lessons that we 

a:
learned from the Indiana situation afford us the opportunity to make a number 
of constructive changes . Some of these changes include modifying our ethics 
training, awareness and advocacy programs, developing specific training 

related to interactions with regulators and public officials, and fostering 
heightened awareness in determining and addressing conflicts of 
interest in the hiring process . The situation in Indiana, although 
difficult, has been a beneficial learning experience for us. We will 
use it to get better .

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

 
 
 
 
42

support or oppose legislation that could 
have a major impact on the company. 
In addition, the VIP website provides 
information on voter registration and 
contacting legislators.

RESpoNSIBLE uSE of 
GoVERNmENT STImuLuS fuNDS

Duke Energy is putting federal stimulus 
funds to work to modernize its electric 
grid and help revitalize the economy.

In May 2010, we reached an agree-

ment with the Department of Energy 
(DOE) to accept $204 million in digital grid 
stimulus funds. These awards will enable 
us to move forward with modernizing our 
power delivery system in the five states 
we serve. 

GoVERNaNCE RaTINGS

Each year, we gather ratings published by several top governance advisory services. 
We use these ratings, and analysis of our company prepared by the services, to help 
maintain our strong governance systems. 

GovernanCe ratInGs

ISS — Corporate Governance Quotient

Index Ranking

Industry Ranking

ISS — GRId Profile 2 (new in 2010)

Board Structure

Compensation

Shareholder Rights

Audit

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

Scale

13 .8

30 .7

91 .1

93 .6

82 .5

90 .1

88 .3

93 .6

88.7 1

93.3 1

0-100*

0-100*

Low Concern

Low Concern

Low Concern

Low Concern

Low*, 
Medium, 
High 
Concern

We feel strongly that our grid modern-

The Corporate Library

ization efforts support the job creation, 
economic stimulus and energy infra-
structure objectives of the American 
Reinvestment and Recovery Act and the 
Smart Grid Investment Grant Program. 
Over the course of our smart grid program, 
we expect to put more than 1,000 people 
to work as we deploy digital technolo-
gies in the Carolinas, Ohio, Kentucky 
and Indiana.

By the end of 2010, we had invested 
approximately $38 million of the stimulus 
funds awarded by the DOE for grid 
modernization, and created about 130 
new jobs. This does not include jobs that 
are created indirectly by the ripple effects 
of our investment in local economies.
The DOE has also awarded Duke 

Energy $3.5 million for workforce 
development and training. Currently, we 
are developing training plans and programs 
to equip existing and new employees to 
support our grid modernization efforts.
Duke Energy plans to spend up to 
$1 billion to deploy smart grid technology 
in our five service areas.

For more information on our smart grid 

rollout, see the Innovative Products and 
Services section of this report. 

TCL Rating

Governance risk Assessment

GovernanceMetrics International

B

Low

B

Low

B

Low

B

Low

C 3

Moderate 3

A*-F (no E)

Low*,  Mod, 
High

Overall Global Rating

9 .0

9 .5

9 .5

9 .0

9.5 4

0-10*

1  As of March 17, 2010. Published with permission of ISS.
2  As of Jan. 24, 2011. Published with permission of ISS.
3  As of Jan. 13, 2011. Published with permission of The Corporate library llC.
4  As of Nov. 2010. Published with permission of GovernanceMetrics International.
*  reflects best rating.

GLoBaL REpoRTING INITIaTIVE

 is 

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
an internationally accepted framework of 
economic, environmental and social perfor-
mance indicators. We provide a detailed 
response to the GRI indicators 
 on our 
website. Below we provide a summary 
index to the GRI indicators. With this report 
and our online information, we believe we 
meet GRI Guidelines Application Level B. 

 ■ Standard Disclosures (pages 2-8, 9)
 ■ Economic Indicators (pages 3, 5-8, 

36-37, 39-40)

 ■ Environmental Indicators 

(pages 21-31)

 ■ Product Responsibility Indicators 

(pages 2-8, 14-20)

 ■ Labor Practices and Decent Work 

Indicators (pages 32-35)

 ■ Human Rights Indicators — Please see 
our index at: http://www.duke-energy.
com/sustainability/human-rights-
indicators.asp 

 ■ Society Indicators (pages 36-38, 

40-42)

aBouT ouR DaTa

This report contains the best data available 
at time of publication. Environmental and 
social data can be challenging to measure 
accurately. We correct and report errors 
in prior-year data where found. We work 
to continually improve our data measure-
ment, gathering and reporting processes 
to increase the integrity of information 
presented.

Duke energY COrPOrATIOn  2010 | 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43

 ■ Share how the company is reinvigo-
rating its approach to sustainability 
in light of the planned merger with 
progress Energy. This offers both 
opportunity and challenge. Opportunity 
to set aggressive new targets, learn 
from each company’s’ experience, 
and bring fresh eyes and skills to 
sustainability management. On the 
other hand, there will be dramatic 
changes to the company’s struc-
ture and leadership, which create 
great uncertainty for the future of 
sustainability at Duke Energy. We 
look forward to hearing how the 
company is integrating new opera-
tions, perspectives, staff, structures 
and leadership, and how it plans 
to build on its strong foundation for 
sustainability moving forward.

We appreciate the opportunity to share 
our feedback and look forward to following 
Duke Energy’s ongoing journey.

Julia Ka’iulani Nelson
Manager, Energy & Extractives
Business for Social Responsibility
April 6, 2011

INDEpENDENT REVIEw

Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR) is pleased to provide our fifth 
independent review of Duke Energy’s 
annual Sustainability Report. The 
perspectives we offer below are informed 
by our knowledge of material social and 
environmental issues in the electric utilities 
sector, familiarity with Duke Energy and 
the company’s reporting practice over the 
past five years, and experience applying 
international standards for best practice in 
sustainability reporting. This review neither 
verifies nor expresses an opinion on the 
accuracy, materiality or completeness of 
information provided in this report.

Notable strengths of the 2010 | 2011 
Report include its:
 ■ Reflection on Duke Energy’s 

achievements over the past five 
years. Roberta Bowman’s Q&A, 
presentation of multiple years of data 
and discussion of significant goals 
attained — such as the company’s 
dramatic reduction of solid waste 
and improvement in its Total Incident 
Case Rate since 2007 — highlight the 
longer arc of cumulative progress it 
has made since publication of its first 
Sustainability Plan.

 ■ Balanced exploration of existing and 

emerging social and environmental 
concerns. Duke Energy continues to 
directly and openly address long-
standing concerns like nuclear safety 
and ethical conduct, as well as new 
issues like cyber security for smart 
grids and stakeholder preoccupa-
tions about new renewable energy 
technologies. However, we would like 
to see the company tackle long-term 
questions about the costs, relative CO2 
reductions and environmental impacts 
of natural gas in greater depth. 

 ■ Clear insight into the “work” of 
sustainability. This year’s report 
brings readers to the front lines of 
sustainability at Duke Energy. For 
the first time it includes employee 
as well as executive voices, shares 
grassroots innovations inspired by 
sustainability challenges and goals, 
and starts to document the business 
returns the company has enjoyed 
as a result, from cost reduction to 
investor recognition on the DJSI 
World Index. These are proof positive 
that sustainability is increasingly part 
of Duke Energy’s corporate DNA.

In next year’s report, we encourage 
Duke Energy to:
 ■ Thoroughly address the implications 
of the fukushima nuclear crisis. Even 
as this report is written, the events 
unfolding in Japan are fundamentally 
reshaping the future of nuclear power. 
We — and the company’s stakeholders 
— will want to know what Duke 
Energy learned from Fukushima, 
and the impact those lessons have 
had on its approach to public policy, 
transparency and engagement with 
stakeholders around the costs and 
benefits of nuclear power, new 
generation strategy, and technology, 
design and safety measures at existing 
and potential nuclear power facilities.

 ■ provide more sophisticated and 

in-depth discussion of supply chain 
sustainability risks, opportunities 
and activities. What does Duke 
Energy’s supply chain look like? 
How is it changing as its business is 
transformed? What kind of material 
social and environmental impacts 
do its suppliers have on workers 
and communities? How is the 
company comprehensively managing 
sustainability risk and capitalizing on 
opportunities with suppliers? While this 
year’s report provides greater detail on 
this topic than ever, we believe there is 
still room for substantial improvement 
in its treatment of supply chain 
sustainability.

 Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport .duke-energy .com

NoN-Gaap fINaNCIaL mEaSuRES

foRwaRD-LookING INfoRmaTIoN

adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (“EpS”)

Duke Energy’s 2010-2011 Sustainability Report references 2010 and 2009 adjusted diluted EPS 
of $1.43 and $1.22, respectively. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting 
principles) financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke 
Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per share impact of special items and the 
mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment . Special items represent 
certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although 
it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur . Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the 
mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such 
derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy’s 
hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power 
segment . The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market 
price volatility of the input and output commodities (e .g ., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging 
involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets . 
Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, manage-
ment believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from 
adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the 
portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset .  Management believes that the presentation 
of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant 
comparison of the company’s performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for 
employee incentive bonuses .

The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from 
continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the 
impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power 
segment . The following is a reconciliation of reported diluted EPS from continuing operations to adjusted 
diluted EPS for 2010 and 2009:

Diluted EPS from continuing operations, as reported
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations, as reported
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items, as reported

Diluted EPS, as reported
Adjustments to reported EPS:
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items
Diluted EPS impact of special items and mark-to-market 
in Commercial Power (see below)

Diluted EPS, adjusted

2010
$1.00
—
—

$1.00

—
—

0.43

$1.43

2009
$0 .82
0 .01
—

$0 .83

(0 .01)
—

0 .40

$1 .22

The following is the detail of the $(0 .43) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2010:

(In millions, except per-share amounts)
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger
Voluntary retirement plan and office consolidation costs
Litigation reserve
Goodwill and other impairments
Asset sales
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges
Total adjusted EPS impact

Pre-Tax 
Amount
$  (27)
(172)
(26)
(660)
248
33

Tax  
Effect
$  10
67
10
58
(94)
(12)

2010 Diluted 
eps Impact
$ (0.01)
(0.08)
(0.01)
(0.46)
0.12
0.01
$ (0.43)

The following is the detail of the $(0 .40) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2009:

(In millions, except per-share amounts)
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger
Crescent related guarantees and tax adjustments
International transmission adjustment
Goodwill and other impairments
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges
Total adjusted EPS impact

Pre-Tax 
Amount
$  (25)
(26)
(32)
(431)
(60)

Tax  
Effect
$  10
(3)
10
21
22

2009 Diluted 
EPS Impact
$ (0 .01)
(0 .02)
(0 .02)
(0 .32)
(0 .03)
$ (0.40)

Cautionary Statements Regarding forward-Looking Information
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities 
litigation reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases 
such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” 
“believe,” “target,” “forecast,” and other words and terms of similar meaning .  Forward-looking 
statements involve estimates, expectations, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and 
uncertainties . Duke Energy cautions readers that any forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of 
future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-
looking statement . Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about 
the benefits of the proposed merger involving Duke Energy and Progress Energy, including future 
financial and operating results, Progress Energy’s or Duke Energy’s plans, objectives, expectations 
and intentions, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, and other statements that are 
not historical facts .  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
indicated by such forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: the ability 
to obtain the requisite Duke Energy and Progress Energy shareholder approvals; the risk that Progress 
Energy or Duke Energy may be unable to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals required for 
the merger, or required governmental and regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the 
imposition of conditions that could cause the parties to abandon the merger; the risk that a condition 
to closing of the merger may not be satisfied; the timing to consummate the proposed merger; the risk 
that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other 
synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; 
disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, 
employees or suppliers; the diversion of management time on merger-related issues; general worldwide 
economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; 
and other factors we discuss or refer to in the “risk Factors” section of our most recent Annual report 
on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These risks, as well as other 
risks associated with the merger, are more fully discussed in the preliminary joint proxy statement/
prospectus that is included in the registration Statement on Form S-4 that was filed by Duke Energy 
with the SEC on March 17, 2011 in connection with the merger.  Additional risks and uncertainties are 
identified and discussed in Progress Energy’s and Duke Energy’s reports filed with the SEC and avail-
able at the SEC’s website at www .sec .gov .  Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date 
of the particular statement and neither Progress Energy nor Duke Energy undertakes any obligation to 
update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events 
or otherwise . 

additional Information and where to find It
This document does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, 
or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in 
which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the 
securities laws of any such jurisdiction . In connection with the proposed merger between Duke Energy 
and Progress Energy, on March 17, 2011, Duke Energy  filed with the SEC a registration Statement 
on Form S-4 that included a preliminary joint proxy statement of Duke Energy and Progress Energy 
that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of Duke Energy. These materials are not yet final and 
may be amended.  Duke Energy and Progress Energy will deliver the definitive joint proxy statement/
prospectus to their respective shareholders . Duke Energy and Progress Energy urge investors and 
shareholders to read the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed 
merger and the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus, when it becomes available, as 
well as other documents filed with the SEC, because they contain or will contain important 
information. you may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free 
of charge, at the SEC’s website (www .sec .gov) . You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, 
from Duke Energy’s website (www .duke-energy .com) under the heading “Investors” and then under the 
heading “Financials/SEC Filings .” You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Progress 
Energy’s website (www .progress-energy .com) under the tab “Investors” and then under the heading 
“SEC Filings .” 

participants in the merger Solicitation
Duke Energy, Progress Energy, and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other 
members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from Duke Energy and Progress 
Energy shareholders in favor of the merger and related matters . Information regarding the persons who 
may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed participants in the solicitation of Duke Energy and Progress 
Energy shareholders in connection with the proposed merger is contained in the preliminary joint proxy 
statement/prospectus and will be contained in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus when 
it becomes available. you can find information about Duke Energy’s executive officers and directors 
in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 17, 2011. you can find information about 
Progress Energy’s executive officers and directors in its definitive proxy statement filed with the 
SEC on March 31, 2011 and Amendment No. 1 to its Annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC 
on March 17, 2011. Additional information about Duke Energy’s executive officers and directors and 
Progress Energy’s executive officers and directors can be found in the above-referenced registration 
Statement on Form S-4 . You can obtain free copies of these documents from Duke Energy and Progress 
Energy using the contact information above . 

526 South Church Street
Mail Code: EC06B, Charlotte, NC 28202
Email: sustainability@duke-energy.com
Website: sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

