Corporate Citizenship Report

201515

18

29

42

45

3 

Chairman’s letter

4  About ExxonMobil

5  Global operations

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

12 

 Powering the 
world’s progress

 The Outlook  
for Energy

Sustainability

 Engaging with 
stakeholders

 External Citizenship 
Advisory Panel

 ExxonMobil’s key 
sustainability issues 
and challenges

Safety, health and  
the workplace

Managing climate
change risks

•  Engaging on climate 

change policy

•  Developing future 

technology

Case Study:

ExxonMobil’s 
Operations Integrity
Management System

•  Safety
•  Emergency preparedness 

and response

•  Workplace security
•  Health and wellness
•  Workforce

•  Mitigating greenhouse 
gas emissions in our 
operations

•  Developing solutions that 
reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions for customers

Case Study:

ExxonMobil’s research and 
development initiatives

56

59

71

74

81

Environmental
performance

•  Environmental 
management
•  Biodiversity and 

ecosystem services
•  Water management
•  Spill performance
•  Air emissions
•  Environmental compliance
•  Rehabilitation and 
decommissioning

88  About this report

89  Materiality

90  Performance data

93 

 IPIECA/GRI  
content index

94  Assurance statement

Case Study:

Technological innovations  
in Arctic wildlife protection

Community and  
social impact

•  Respecting human rights
•  Managing community 

engagement

•  Strategic community 

investments

Case Study:

New country entry 
in Guyana for the 
Upstream business

Local development 
and supply chain 
management

•  Local economic growth 

and development

•  Supply chain  
management

Corporate  
governance

•  Ethics and integrity
•  Board of directors
•  Shareholder relations

Table of contents
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

Web

Video

Throughout the report, additional 
content is available by clicking the  
icons shown on the left.

In December 2015, students at the 
Federal Housing Estate Primary School 
in Lagos, Nigeria, learn about malaria 
prevention and proper bed net use 
through Grassroot Soccer’s community-
based program. To learn more about this 
program, see page 69.

2

Chairman’s letter

Energy makes life as we know it possible. Energy provides the 
fundamental underpinnings for quality of life. Energy powers the 
world’s economies and allows us to improve our standards of living.

ExxonMobil’s core mission is to power the world’s progress by expanding 
energy supplies safely, securely and responsibly. We believe our industry 
will be instrumental to meeting a fundamental and universal human 
need. Our successes are a reminder that new technologies and proven 
techniques are the key to unlocking abundant sources of energy. We 
uphold the highest standards of safety and environmental protection in 
supplying the world’s energy.

Our work enables billions to access the energy that supports their 
livelihoods. We understand the need to thoughtfully invest to expand 
the benefits of modern energy while protecting the environment 
and addressing the impacts of rising greenhouse gas emissions and 
climate change. 

This Corporate Citizenship Report provides a view of how we work to help 
power the world’s progress. It shares our priorities and our plans for the 
future. It provides data and examples that chart our progress and describe 
our approach. Some of the highlights related to our priorities include:

Safety, health and the workplace. The effort to develop energy resources 
takes our company to some of the most difficult and challenging places 
on earth. We make a commitment to do the right thing, the right way, 
every time each employee and contractor does his or her job. In 2015, 
we continued our journey toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. We will 
never stop working to achieve and sustain this goal.

Managing climate change risks. Managing the risks of climate change 
is an important responsibility for our business and society at large. We 
believe that sound policy, free markets, innovation, technology and 
efficiency are essential in addressing the risks of climate change. We 
continue to advance research and development, leading to innovation 
in areas such as advanced biofuels, carbon capture and sequestration, 
and energy efficiency. Managing our own greenhouse gas emissions is 
a core element of our operations. We have and will continue to engage 
relevant stakeholders to further develop climate science and broaden its 
understanding by society at large. 

Environmental performance. Rigorous, science-based environmental 
management is a critical element of what we do. Protect Tomorrow. 
Today. sets the principles that guide our efforts to protect biodiversity, 
manage water use and air emissions, avoid spills, decommission sites  
and rehabilitate the environment. 

Community and social impact. Maintaining respect for human rights, 
responsibly managing our impacts on communities and making valued 
social investments are integral to the success and sustainability of our 
business. In 2015, we contributed $268 million to communities around 
the world, focusing on areas such as improving education, combating 
malaria and advancing economic opportunities for women. ExxonMobil’s 
local content and supply chain management strategies are designed to 
deliver lasting and shared value to host countries, local communities and 
our business. 

Governance. Upholding the highest ethical standards of business  
conduct is critical to maintaining our global license to operate.  
A commitment to ethics and integrity is the foundation of our  
corporate culture. We seek to maintain the highest anti-corruption 
compliance in all aspects of our operations. 

The challenge of powering the world’s progress is one that defies simple 
solutions. There are many stakeholders with strongly held views and 
differing opinions. We work to understand them and strive to strike 
an appropriate balance that maximizes the benefits to society. The 
approach we take will be grounded in facts and science, and will be 
guided by practical choices backed by human ingenuity. The good news 
is that practical options to meet people’s needs for reliable, affordable 
energy continue to expand.

I’m pleased to share this Corporate Citizenship Report to show how 
we approach these challenges, the actions we’re committed to taking 
and the performance of the capable men and women who make 
up ExxonMobil.

We continue to encourage feedback from all of our stakeholders at 
exxonmobil.com/citizenship.

Rex W. Tillerson 
Chairman and CEO

Chairman’s letter
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

3

About ExxonMobil

ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses

As a global provider of energy, ExxonMobil’s core mission is 
to safely and responsibly deliver the energy needed to power 
the world’s economic, social and technological progress. 
Every day, we work to do this with integrity, ingenuity and 
a commitment to good corporate citizenship. We recognize 
the significant responsibilities we have to our shareholders, 
neighbors, customers and communities as we find ways to 
bring affordable energy to a global market. We believe our 
employees, technical expertise, financial strength, global reach 
and disciplined approach provide ExxonMobil an advantage in 
addressing the challenges of meeting global energy demand. 

As the world’s largest publicly held oil and gas company, 
ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets, 
projects and resources across our Upstream, Downstream 
and Chemical businesses. We seek to maintain a balanced 
portfolio of opportunities to ensure profitable growth through 
a wide range of investment and geopolitical environments.

pstream 
    U

  D ownstream   

pment          Pro d uctio n                          R e

e

velo
n          D

io
t
a
r
o
l
p
x
E

er    Upstrea m  
g     Research  

w
tin
o
 & P
e
k
r
a
M

s
a
G

f

i n i n g   &  
                  S u p p l y  

      Fuels Marketing       Lubricants &                          B
  Specialties                  C

a

h

e

m

ic

a

sic                  I
ls        

C

h

e

m

i

c

a

l

  R esearch &  

 E n gineering                               R
             P

la
s
ti

e

c

n

t

e

r

m

e

d

i

a

t

e

s

S

y

n

t

h
e
t

i

c
s

s
i

s

n

&

s

 E

l

S

a

p

s

t

e

B

o

c

i

u

t

y

m
e

l

r

a

l

t

y

s

&

Upstream
Our Upstream business encompasses high-quality exploration 
opportunities across all resource types and geographies, an 
industry-leading resource base, a portfolio of world-class 
projects and a diverse set of producing assets. We have an 
active exploration or production presence in 36 countries.

Downstream
Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facil-
ities in 14 countries. We are one of the largest integrated 
refiners and manufacturers of lube basestocks and a leading 
marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants. 
Our high-quality products, combined with a strong global 
refining and distribution network, position us as a premier 
global supplier.

Chemical
ExxonMobil Chemical is one of the largest chemical companies 
in the world. Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty 
businesses delivers superior returns across the business 
cycle. We manufacture high-quality chemical products in 
16 countries. Our products serve as the building blocks for  
a wide variety of everyday consumer and industrial products.

4.1 million oil-equivalent barrels of  

net oil and gas production per day1

5.8 million barrels of petroleum 

product sales per day2

24.7 million metric tons of  

prime product sales3

1Gas converted to oil-equivalent at 6 million cubic feet = 1 thousand barrels. 
2Petroleum product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.
3Prime product sales are total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and finished-product transfers to the Downstream.

About ExxonMobil
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Global operations

As the world’s largest publicly held oil and gas company, ExxonMobil has a 
diverse and balanced portfolio of high-quality operations, projects and new 
opportunities across our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses.

Downstream

Upstream
Downstream

Chemical
Downstream
Upstream

Chemical
Upstream

Chemical

United Kingdom

Singapore

Alaska, United States

Guyana

Angola

About ExxonMobil
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

Locations as of December 31, 2015. Map 
indicates major Upstream, Downstream and 
Chemical operating assets.

5

Energy is integral to our lives in the 21st century.

Powering the  
world’s progress 

At every link in the energy supply chain, ExxonMobil seeks 
to advance innovation and technology to deliver the energy 
the world needs — to support growth, opportunity and 
progress for all citizens. Powering the world’s progress means 
expanding the benefits of modern energy while protecting 
the environment and addressing the impacts of greenhouse 
gas emissions and climate change. ExxonMobil’s approach to 
powering the world’s progress is founded on our core belief 
that a relentless pursuit of operational excellence, coupled 
with the power of science, technology and engineering in 
the hands of people with integrity, can solve even the most 
challenging problems.

ExxonMobil plays a key role in providing the energy needed 
for continued economic prosperity and human progress. The 
immense size of global energy needs can be difficult to concep-
tualize. Global energy demand in 2015 is estimated to be about 
560 quadrillion British thermal units (BTUs), equivalent to about 
12 billion gallons of gasoline daily, and this number is increasing. 

Powering the world’s progress
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

To put that number into perspective, the ExxonMobil-operated 
Hebron project in eastern Canada will produce approximately 
700 million barrels of oil over the course of 30 years, enough to 
satisfy about three days of current global demand. For informa-
tion on the global, economic, social and technological factors 
that determine the world’s energy needs, see the discussion on 
our Outlook for Energy on the following page. 

In addition to providing oil and gas resources, we strive to make 
significant contributions around the world through our capital 
and exploration expenditures and investments in research and 
development, as well as our community investments and local 
content development. In 2015, our capital and exploration 
expenditures, shareholder distributions, production, 
manufacturing and office expenses, and government taxes 
and duties totaled $149 billion. For more in-depth analysis 
of our financial performance and investment decisions, see 
our 2015 Summary Annual Report and 2015 Financial and 
Operating Review.

ExxonMobil 2015 Summary Annual Report

ExxonMobil 2015 Financial and Operating Review

Global economic flows 
from ExxonMobil in 2015

Billions of dollars

Government
taxes and 
duties 

$58

Capital and 
exploration
expenditures 

$31

Worldwide total

$149

Shareholder 
distributions 

$15

Production,
manufacturing 
and office expenses 

$45

ExxonMobil is a significant contributor to the global economy. In 2015, 
global economic flows from ExxonMobil totaled $149 billion, with the 
highest contribution in government taxes and duties. 

6

The Outlook for Energy

Energy matters to everyone, and we all play a role in shaping 
its future. Understanding the factors that drive the world’s 
energy needs, and likely choices to meet those needs, is the 
mission of ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy. By sharing the 
Outlook with the public, we hope to broaden that under-
standing among individuals, businesses and governments.

Every day, all over the world, energy makes modern life 
possible. We rely on it for food production, mobility, shelter, 
security, communication and modern health care. Energy 
also drives growth, opportunity and progress. The global 
population is projected to rise to 9 billion in 2040, while 
economic growth in China, India and other non-OECD4 
countries will enable significantly more people to improve  
their living standards. We estimate that global energy  
demand will be 25 percent higher in 2040 than it was in  
2014, led by a 45 percent increase in non-OECD countries. 

Improved living standards will require meeting the world’s 
energy needs while managing the environmental impacts of 
energy use, including climate change. Practical options to help 
meet the needs for reliable, affordable and cleaner energy 
continue to expand. We expect that as efficiencies improve 
and society shifts toward lower-carbon fuels, the amount 
of energy-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per dollar 
of global gross domestic product (GDP) will be cut in half 
by 2040. 

We update our long-term energy outlook each year, taking 
into account the most up-to-date demographic, economic and 
technological information available. The following are some 
highlights from this year’s Outlook for Energy:

•  Energy is fundamental to standards of living — As incomes 
rise, billions of people in developing nations will rise into 
the middle class; many will be able to afford amenities such 
as temperature-controlled homes, cars and appliances. In 
2014, there were about 10 cars per 100 people in China. By 
2040, this number is expected to rise to about 30 cars per 
100 people.

•  Developing nations will lead gains in GDP and living  

standards — We expect that China, India and many other 
developing nations will see strong growth in GDP and 

The Outlook for Energy
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

Energy demand

Quadrillion BTUs

Global fuel demand in 2040 — 
projections

Quadrillion BTUs

1,200

1,000

800

600

400

200

0

Energy savings

Rest of world

Key growth

India

China

OECD324

250

200

150

100

50

0

0.7%

Average annual growth rate 2014–2040
Average of all fuel types: 0.9%

1.6%

-0.2%

2014
2040

0.3%

2.9%

4.8%

1.3%

2000                        2020                        2040

Oil

Gas

Coal Biomass Nuclear Solar/
wind/
biofuels

Hydro/
geo

living standards to 2040. Per capita income in non-OECD 
nations is expected to rise by about 135 percent between 
2014 and 2040; in OECD nations, it is expected to rise 
almost 60 percent.

•  Economics and policies will impact the energy mix — 

Increasingly, the mix of fuels that consumers use to meet 
their energy needs will be reshaped by economics, tech-
nology and government policies. In general, demand will 
shift toward cleaner fuels like natural gas, renewables and 
nuclear. The share of the world’s electricity generated by 
coal will likely drop to about 30 percent in 2040, from more 
than 40 percent in 2014.

•  Oil will remain the world’s primary fuel — We expect oil to 
continue to be the world’s leading energy source, driven 
by demand for transportation fuels and by the chemical 
industry. One-third of the world’s energy is expected to be 
provided by oil in 2040.

•  Natural gas grows more than any other energy source — 
Demand for natural gas is growing rapidly, in part due to 
its abundance and ability to meet a wide variety of needs 
as the cleanest-burning major fuel. Around 40 percent of 
the growth in global energy demand from 2014 to 2040 is 
projected to be met by natural gas.

•  Technology has the highest potential and the greatest 

uncertainty — Advances in technology have tremendous 
potential to help meet our energy and environmental goals, 
but the pace of change is difficult to predict. There is also 
significant emphasis on technological advances to improve 
energy efficiency. Global average fuel economy for light-
duty vehicles is expected to improve by 80 percent from 
2014 to 2040, reflecting advances in technology. 

The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040

4The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Refer to the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development website (oecd.org) 
for a listing of its members.

7

Sustainability

ExxonMobil is faced with the complex challenge of providing the energy needed to support 
economic growth and improved standards of living while balancing impacts on society and 
the environment. ExxonMobil views corporate citizenship as a key component of sustainable 
development. By designing our approach to corporate citizenship around six key areas, 
we contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives and manage the impact of our 
operations on local economies, societies, climate and the environment. These six areas of 
corporate citizenship — which include safety, health and the workplace; managing climate 
change risks; environmental performance; community and social impact; local development 
and supply chain management; and corporate governance — are discussed in detail throughout 
this report.

We are committed to aligning our long-term business objectives with these areas of corporate 
citizenship. As a global provider of energy, our primary objective is to responsibly meet the 
world’s energy needs while increasing shareholder value. To help evaluate the success of 
our corporate citizenship initiatives and cultivate strong investor relations, we employ eight 
strategies that help guide and measure our commitment to good corporate citizenship and 
address society’s diverse sustainability objectives. These strategies include:

•  Integration
•  Investment and cost discipline
•  Operational excellence
•  Portfolio management

•  Project execution
•  Risk management
•  Technology leadership
•  World-class workforce

Powering the world’s progress depends on developing and retaining a world-class workforce. 
By pairing technical expertise and industry-leading research capabilities, ExxonMobil is able to 
identify and develop the high-quality oil and gas resources needed to help sustain economic 
development. We are also committed to developing innovative products and services that 
deliver superior performance for consumers and long-term value for shareholders.

We make strategic decisions on issues that directly affect the sustainability of our business. 
Our diligent investment and cost discipline approach allows us to execute deals with attractive 
valuations in a competitive industry environment. We work to deliver complex, integrated 
projects on time and on budget. Our goal is to maintain a diverse and balanced portfolio of 
high-quality resources, projects and assets across our businesses.

In every aspect of our business, we work to sustain safety, reliability and environmental 
stewardship of our operations through an unwavering commitment to operational excellence. 
We apply a systematic approach to identifying, evaluating and managing risks across our 
operations and relentlessly work to be the partner, neighbor, employer and supplier of choice 
around the world. For information on how our Operations Integrity Management System guides 
risk management throughout our operations, see page 15.

Sustainability
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

c i a l  

o

  S

S a f e t y, health and
t h e   workplace

nity and
cial impact

u
m
m
o
C

o
s

Sustainability

M

a

n

c

a

h

g

a

n

i

n

g

e

g

c

l
i

m

r
i
s

k

s

a

t

e

E

n

viron

ment

Environmen t a l
performan c e

    C

o

r

p

o

r

a

t

e

g

o

v

e

r

n

a

n

c

e

t
n
e
m
p

n
ai
h

nt
e
m

L ocal develo
ply c
and sup
manage

 E

c
o
n
o
m
i
c

8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Papua New Guinea Prime Minister Peter O’Neill on board the Spirit of Hela for loading of the first liquefied natural gas cargo. ExxonMobil is committed to engaging with stakeholders wherever we operate.

Engaging with stakeholders

As a global company, our business directly affects and 
is directly affected by many people, organizations and 
communities around the world. For a company of our size, 
building and maintaining relationships with a diverse group 
of stakeholders are both priorities and ongoing challenges. 
Energy issues are complex and our stakeholders represent 
multiple viewpoints. The discussions we undertake with our 
stakeholders help us understand a variety of perspectives. 
Regular stakeholder engagement helps us continue to improve 
our company and remain a responsible corporate citizen.

We interact with our stakeholders using a variety of mecha-
nisms, including community meetings, Web and social media 
content, corporate publications, and one-on-one and group 
discussions, among others. We include examples of stake-
holder engagement throughout this report. While ExxonMobil 
recognizes that our stakeholders may have a diverse set of 
interests, the following list demonstrates our different stake-
holders and their typical areas of interest.

Employees 

•  Benefits; diversity; development 
opportunities; safety, health  
and wellness

Customers 

•  Product safety and sustainability;  

supply chain management; greenhouse  
gas emissions

Suppliers 

•  Expectations for suppliers; expanding  
local supply network; supplier diversity

Communities 

•  Community development; economic 

development; grievance management; 
human rights; operational impacts

Governments

•  Taxes; local supplier development;  
job creation; impact assessments;  
ethics; education

Non-governmental 
organizations 

•  Biodiversity; water management;  

climate change; air quality; transparency

Shareholders

•  Governance practices; board composition; 

policy engagement; sustainability

Engaging with stakeholders
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

9

External Citizenship  
Advisory Panel

ExxonMobil has engaged an External Citizenship Advisory 
Panel (ECAP) since 2009 to provide an annual independent 
review of the company’s corporate citizenship activities, 
including this report. ECAP members are experts in social 
and environmental topics and are leading academics, non-
governmental organization (NGO) representatives and former 
government employees. Each year, the ECAP reviews a draft 
of this report and provides feedback, which we evaluate and 
incorporate into the report as appropriate.

ECAP statement on 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report

To the readers of this report,

We are pleased to share our independent opinion on 
ExxonMobil’s 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report. Over 
the course of our engagement period in 2015–2016, 
we participated in teleconference, email and in-person 
discussions with ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship team 
and subject matter experts. While the Panel’s mandate 
includes engaging with the company on policy and strategy 
issues, this statement focuses on its transparency efforts 
through reporting.

We had an opportunity to review and provide feedback on 
a draft of the report, some of which was adopted. We hope 
that ExxonMobil will consider the remainder of our feedback 
to inform its future corporate citizenship reporting. 

This letter is not an official endorsement of the report, 
the corporation or its policies, but rather our individual 
and collective views on the quality and progress made 
in ExxonMobil’s citizenship practices and reporting. 
In recognition of substantial time spent during the 
engagement period, ExxonMobil provided a donation  
on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations of  
our choice and reimbursed ECAP-related travel expenses.

2015 commentary
We appreciate the wide scope of reporting and the number of 
issues included in this report. In particular, we recognize the 
company’s ongoing work to provide additional performance 
data to back up statements made in the report. The country-
specific case studies are effective in providing readers with 
relevant examples that demonstrate how ExxonMobil’s 
policies and approaches are employed. While we believe that 
the report’s scope is extensive with many interesting and 
appropriate stories, there are several areas where we have 
recommendations for the company’s future reporting efforts.

Climate change
In his introductory statement, Chairman Tillerson mentions 
that “managing the risks of climate change is an important 
responsibility for our business and society at large.” However, 
as a whole, the report needs greater clarity regarding the 
breadth and effectiveness of the company’s steps to address 
those risks. 

With regard to the topics of climate-related research, the 
development of innovative technologies, and improving 
energy efficiency in its own operations, ExxonMobil 
describes considerable progress. However, the largest 
contribution to greenhouse gas emissions comes not from 
ExxonMobil’s internal operations, but from the use of its 
products. If society is to take significant actions to reduce 
the risks of climate change, which ExxonMobil states as an 
important responsibility, it must adopt appropriate public 
policies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fossil 
fuels. Future reports would benefit from more specificity 
about the company’s support for a carbon tax, as well as 
its engagement on other policy issues in the United States 
and internationally.

Additionally, we would encourage the company to discuss 
more fully its continued focus primarily on oil and gas, 
relative to plans for moving toward lower-carbon sources of 
energy. Many of the world’s leading companies — including 
some in the oil and gas sector — are publicly announcing 
science-based goals to transition their businesses toward 

a low-carbon economy. As investors and stakeholders 
increasingly call for disclosure of corporate strategic goals,  
we believe ExxonMobil would benefit from becoming a 
leader in this regard. 

The generation of methane emissions is another issue where 
we believe the company could describe its efforts more 
broadly. The Up Close example on page 37 provides insight 
into XTO Energy’s efforts to reduce methane emissions at its 
hydraulic fracturing sites throughout the United States. We 
would welcome a broader description of ExxonMobil’s efforts 
to reduce these emissions. First, what are the company’s 
efforts to reduce methane emissions in its other operations 
worldwide? Second, we would welcome learning of the 
company’s stance on various public policy options to reduce 
these emissions, including whether there are any U.S. federal 
or state regulations that it supports or is actively advocating.

Human rights and social reporting
While we understand that social reporting lags behind 
environmental, safety and economic reporting across all 
sectors, we believe ExxonMobil could discuss its approach 
to respecting human rights across its operations and in its 
supply chain in greater depth and with more specificity. 
For example, we would like to see ExxonMobil describe its 
approach to upholding the Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights in the report. We commend the company 
for assuming a leadership position on the steering committee 
of the Voluntary Principles in 2015. As we recommended 
last year, we would like the report to reflect greater rigor in 
presenting its approach and the outcomes of its efforts to 
respect security and human rights, especially using metrics 
to evaluate its performance vis-à-vis other companies.

We appreciate the reporting on outcomes of ExxonMobil’s 
community investment initiatives, particularly the malaria 
examples described on pages 69–70, and the company’s 
support for women’s economic empowerment. In future 
reports, we would like the company to provide insight on 
how the grievance mechanisms at its various projects are 
used in practice.

External Citizenship Advisory Panel
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

10

Role of suppliers, contractors and other partners 
We commend the ongoing work that the company is 
undertaking to better understand and influence the 
environmental, social and human rights performance of the 
companies with which it does business. We recognize there  
are thousands of such companies as well as other partners  
that are working with ExxonMobil, but feel that the company 
could further describe how it is working proactively with 
these entities to improve their sustainability performance, 
both individually and collectively.

Comparison and benchmarks
ExxonMobil provides useful industry benchmarking data for its 
annual safety performance data. However, outside of this topic, 

ExxonMobil does not give the readers of this report adequate 
context to determine the company’s performance relative to 
others in the industry. We would recommend that ExxonMobil 
consider including industry benchmark information around 
its other material issues. In addition, we would recommend 
ExxonMobil further enhance its descriptions on performance 
and progress made compared with prior years.

Conclusion
We are grateful for the opportunity to provide our collective 
feedback on ExxonMobil’s transparency and disclosure efforts 
directly in this report. We are encouraged to see that the 
company’s reporting continues to evolve and improve each 

year, and we look forward to sustained engagement to identify 
and discuss other opportunities for continual improvement.

Sincerely, 

Mark Cohen
Sarah Labowitz
Frank Loy
Jane Nelson
Salil Tripathi

April 11, 2016

Mark Cohen
Professor of Management  
and Law
Vanderbilt University Owen
Graduate School of Management

Sarah Labowitz
Co-director of Center for  
Business and Human Rights
New York University Stern  
School of Business

Frank Loy
Former Under Secretary of  
State for Global Affairs
U.S. Department of State

Salil Tripathi
Senior adviser, global issues
Institute for Human Rights  
and Business

Jane Nelson
Director of Corporate  
Responsibility Initiative
Harvard University Kennedy 
School of Government

External Citizenship Advisory Panel
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

11

ExxonMobil’s key sustainability 
issues and challenges 

Our stakeholders are increasingly interested in how we are 
incorporating sustainability and addressing challenges in our 
everyday operations. Suzanne McCarron, ExxonMobil vice 
president of public and government affairs, answers some of 
these questions from stakeholders in the discussion below.

With low oil prices and concerns about 
stranded assets, does ExxonMobil have any 
plans to diversify its energy mix?

We believe prices over the long term will continue to be 
driven by market supply and demand, with the demand side 
largely being a function of global economic growth. On the 
supply side, prices may be significantly impacted by political 
events, the actions of OPEC and other large government 
resource owners, and other factors. To manage the risks 
associated with price, ExxonMobil evaluates annual plans and 
all investments across a wide range of price scenarios. Our 
assessment is that operations will exhibit strong performance 
over the long term. This is the outcome of disciplined 
investment, cost management, asset enhancement programs 
and application of advanced technologies.

Our analysis confirms our long-standing view that all energy 
sources are necessary to meet rising global energy demand 
and to support improving living standards worldwide. All of 
ExxonMobil’s current hydrocarbon reserves will be needed, 
along with substantial future industry investments, to address 
global energy needs. ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy and all 
credible forecasts, including that of the International Energy 
Agency, predict that carbon-based fuels will continue to meet 
about three-quarters of global energy needs through 2040.

We also have a team within the company — the ExxonMobil 
Emerging Technologies team — that studies every aspect of the 
energy business, from oil and natural gas to alternatives. It looks 
into areas outside our company’s current business focus. If a 
technology could have a material effect on the future of energy, 
the Emerging Technologies team works to understand and 
evaluate it. We work hard to keep our research aperture wide.

Suzanne McCarron has worldwide responsibility for the company’s 
public policy, government relations, communications, media relations and 
corporate citizenship activities. Suzanne authors our Perspectives blog, 
laying out some of the energy challenges we face and encouraging active 
discourse about their solutions.

What are ExxonMobil’s views of the climate 
agreement reached at the COP 21 climate 
conference in Paris?

The recently concluded talks reflected the complexities of 
enacting thoughtful policies that address climate risks in a 
meaningful way while also ensuring accessible and affordable 
energy supplies for societies throughout the world. 

As policymakers develop mechanisms to meet the goals set in 
Paris, ExxonMobil encourages them to focus on reducing the 
greatest amount of emissions at the lowest cost to society.  

At the same time, we urge them to recognize important shared 
humanitarian needs, including providing reliable and affordable 
energy to improve living standards. 

As a global issue, climate change requires global solutions. 
Both developed and developing countries must now work 
together in crafting policies aimed at mitigating greenhouse 
gas emissions, while recognizing differing national priorities.

What is ExxonMobil doing to address  
the risks of climate change?

We believe the risks of climate change are real and warrant 
thoughtful action. Climate change is a global issue that requires 
the collaboration of governments, companies, consumers 
and other stakeholders to create global solutions. ExxonMobil 
continues to support and contribute to efforts to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions. 

For more than three decades, we have continuously funded 
and participated in research to improve understanding 
of climate science, often in conjunction with government 
bodies and leading research universities. This has resulted in 
hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related 
topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications. 
We promote discussion on issues of direct relevance to the 
company and contribute to a wide range of academic and 
policy organizations that research and promote dialogue on 
significant domestic and foreign policy issues. 

We value scientists and research, and we collaborate with 
the world’s smartest minds in partnership with more than 
80 universities around the world. With more than 2,200 Ph.D. 
scientists and engineers and more than 5,000 employees at 
our research and technology divisions around the world, we 
work day in and day out to explore the new energy solutions 
of the future. We spend about $1 billion annually on energy 
research, a total that includes commitments to biofuels, carbon 
capture and sequestration, bio-products, non-hydrocarbon 
energy supply, power generation, transportation, energy 
efficiency and climate science. 

ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

12

Since 2000, we have spent nearly $7 billion on technology 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including on energy 
efficiency, cogeneration, flare reduction, carbon capture 
and sequestration, and research on lower-emission energy 
solutions. This includes investments of more than $3.8 billion 
since 2000 to address energy efficiency and flare mitigation at 
our Upstream facilities around the world. Additionally, since 
2001, more than $2 billion has been invested in our Upstream 
and Downstream cogeneration facilities to more efficiently 
produce electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions at 
our manufacturing sites.

We are proud of the progress we’ve made, and we recognize 
the importance of continuing our research and development 
to help further expand the understanding of climate science. 
Our efforts have enabled us to take meaningful action to 
mitigate the risks of climate change, and we will continue to 
build on this foundation as we work with governments and 
stakeholders to further address the issue.

Increasingly, a number of oil and gas 
companies are terminating their exploration 
activities in the Arctic. Does ExxonMobil still 
believe Arctic development is financially and 
environmentally viable?

The Arctic represents the world’s largest remaining region 
of undiscovered conventional oil and gas resources. While 
developing these resources presents a variety of challenges, 
ExxonMobil has a strong portfolio of assets and opportu-
nities in a range of Arctic environments. The company has 
operated in the region for nearly a century. We began by 
gaining a scientific understanding of the environment. Design 
and operational plans in Arctic locales, similar to everywhere 
we operate, are founded on our commitment to operating 
in an environmentally responsible and sustainable way. For 
example, our extended-reach drilling technologies have 
allowed for field development from land by drilling horizontally 
under the sea. This approach reduces the number of offshore 

structures required to recover oil and gas resources by drilling 
multiple, long-reach wells from the same location, which 
helps to reduce both underwater noise and our environmental 
footprint. We also use special earthquake- and frost-resistant 
pipelines in some northern areas.

What impact has the company experienced 
since expanding its equal employment 
protections to include sexual orientation and 
gender identity in early 2015?

ExxonMobil developed the industry’s only dedicated, in-house 
Arctic research program more than 40 years ago. Continued 
Arctic technology development has allowed us to design, build 
and operate gravity-based platforms capable of withstanding 
6-million-ton icebergs in the North Atlantic and operating 
year-round in ice-covered waters offshore Sakhalin Island 
in Russia. 

Additionally, we piloted and enhanced technologies in 
2015 to monitor local wildlife and improve our environmental 
performance on Alaska’s North Slope. State-of-the-art 
technologies, including satellite-based remote sensing 
technology, ground surveillance radar and unmanned aerial 
systems, help us to monitor local wildlife near our operations 
and reduce our environmental impact. For more information 
about our technological innovations in Arctic wildlife 
protection, see the case study on page 56.

ExxonMobil’s global policies have always prohibited all forms 
of discrimination in any company workplace, anywhere in the 
world. In the United States, ExxonMobil’s equal employment 
opportunity and harassment in the workplace policies were 
updated last year to explicitly include sexual orientation and 
gender identity, which is consistent with ExxonMobil’s long-
standing practice of listing enumerated protected classes as 
defined by federal law. 

ExxonMobil supports a work environment that values diversity 
and inclusion, and has numerous inclusive programs and 
policies that help make ExxonMobil a great place to work.
These include support for employee networks that foster  
a work environment committed to diversity and inclusion,  
such as People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of  
Employees (PRIDE), which supports lesbian, gay, bisexual  
and transgender employees. 

How does ExxonMobil manage the  
risks associated with operating in  
water-stressed areas?

We have a systematic process for assessing and managing 
the risks of our operations wherever we operate, and this 
includes, for example, how we manage water. This process 
includes a reassessment over the life of the project to identify 
changes in operations or environmental conditions. Our 
operations use alternative water sources, where appropriate, 
and seek opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We 
consider multiple factors in determining the right approach 
for a given process or site, including costs, varied operational 
efficiencies, increased energy use or the consequences of 
producing more concentrated waste streams. Together, these 
factors help us determine site-specific approaches, which vary 
from site to site due to local conditions and availability.

Following the incident at the Torrance 
refinery, what measures has the company 
taken to address the potential for similar 
safety incidents at its other refineries?

We deeply regret the incident. Thankfully, no one was 
seriously hurt. ExxonMobil takes all incidents seriously and is 
committed to learning from them and taking steps to prevent 
a recurrence. In addition to cooperating with all agencies 
investigating the incident, we have conducted our own, 
separate internal investigation led by a team of subject matter 
experts from across the corporation. The team spent several 
months on site interviewing witnesses, reviewing documents, 
inspecting equipment and preparing a comprehensive report 
that identified the direct cause of the incident, and made 
recommendations to prevent a recurrence. We are imple-
menting the recommended changes in operating procedures, 
monitoring equipment and training at ExxonMobil refineries, 
and will share what we’ve learned with the refining industry.

ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

13

There have been a number of pipeline 
releases over the past several years; what  
is ExxonMobil doing to ensure the integrity  
of its pipelines?

Pipeline transport is recognized as the safest means for 
moving oil and petroleum products. The immense system 
in the United States is a critical part of the country’s energy 
infrastructure, moving vital products from locations where 
they’re produced to the markets where they’re consumed —  
to fuel cars, heat our homes and power our economy. 

That said, we are committed to improving pipeline safety 
and carefully maintaining and monitoring our infrastructure. 
We have implemented enhanced surveying techniques and 
state-of-the-art inspection technologies and analyses of our 
pipelines. These surveys and inspection findings are helping us 
identify areas where we can strengthen our pipeline integrity.

What is ExxonMobil doing to improve 
community relations in areas where it is 
conducting hydraulic fracturing operations?

We believe an open dialogue is vital to our long-term success. 
Unconventional development is still relatively new in many 
areas where we operate, and we meet with local leaders 
and community members to find out what is important to 
the community and to listen to their questions and concerns. 
Naturally, people living near our operations are concerned that 
our work could disrupt their way of life. We strive to address 
their concerns, and we take actions to limit potential impacts, 
such as altering our traffic routes to avoid disrupting school 
bus traffic. We also provide site tours to community members 
so they can observe and ask questions about drilling, hydraulic 
fracturing and processing.

No two communities are the same, and we have undertaken 
several approaches across the United States to establish a 
two-way dialogue with our stakeholders. These approaches 
include weekly community notices, community advisory panels, 
land conservation projects and town hall meetings. Our goal 
is more than just getting our work done — we want to be a 
good neighbor and productive member of the community, 
both before we begin work and throughout the life cycle of 
our projects.

Do you find your approach to risk 
management to be effective in helping 
employees identify and address relevant 
safety, security, health and environmental  
risks and issues?

ExxonMobil remains steadfast in its commitment to 
excellence in safety, security, health and environmental 
performance and operations integrity. Many of our 
operations and products represent potential risks to people 
and to the environment. Recognizing and managing these 
risks is inherent in our business, and we believe the best way 
to meet our commitment is through a capable, committed 
workforce, and practices designed to enable safe, secure 
and environmentally responsible operations. We accomplish 
this through clearly defined policies and practices and with 
rigorously applied management systems designed to deliver 
results. The Operations Integrity Management System, or 
OIMS, is a cornerstone of our commitment to managing risks 
and achieving excellence in performance. More than just a set 
of guidelines, OIMS is part of ExxonMobil’s corporate culture 
and the way we run our business.

ExxonMobil Perspectives blog

ExxonMobil’s key sustainability issues and challenges
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

14

Case 
Study

ExxonMobil’s 
Operations 
Integrity 
Management 
System

Clive Smith, who worked at our Fawley  
refinery in the United Kingdom for more 
than 25 years, ensures the integrity 
of our equipment. ExxonMobil’s OIMS 
framework establishes common expectations 
for addressing the safety, security, health and 
environment risks inherent in our business. 

ExxonMobil remains steadfast in our commitment to excel-
lence in safety, security, health and environmental (SSH&E) 
performance, referred to collectively as operations integrity. 
Operations integrity extends to all aspects of our business 
that can impact SSH&E performance. We believe the best way 
to manage the integrity of our business is through a capable, 
committed workforce coupled with policies, practices and 

management systems designed to enable safe, secure and 
environmentally responsible operations. 

The Operations Integrity Management System
The Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is the 
cornerstone of our commitment to managing SSH&E risk and 
achieving operational excellence.  

15

Since the inception of OIMS in the early 1990s, we have 
significantly reduced our lost-time incident rates, demonstrated 
a remarkable decline in marine spills and contributed to 
continuing emission reductions. 

OIMS establishes a common framework for addressing 
SSH&E risk across all aspects of our operations, including 
our supply chain. At the global corporate level, the OIMS 
framework is built around 11 elements, as illustrated below, 
each covering a key aspect of risk across the breadth of 
ExxonMobil’s operations. Each element is comprised of a 
number of expectations, 65 in all, that provide greater detail.

OIMS element 1 — management leadership, commitment  
and accountability — outlines the expectations of managers  
as they lead their organization through OIMS. OIMS element  
11, operations integrity assessment and improvement, 
describes the requirements associated with how each 
operating unit evaluates the extent to which it is meeting 
the expectations of OIMS. These two elements are often 
referred to as the “bookends” of OIMS, with element 
1 being the  “driver” and element 11 providing the feedback 
mechanism to ensure continuous improvement. Elements 
2 through 10 address the operational, day-to-day aspects 
of OIMS, such as risk management, facilities design and 
construction, and personnel and training.

All operating organizations are required to conform to the 
expectations described in OIMS. In order for the 11 elements 
and 65 expectations to be consistent and relevant across 
ExxonMobil’s diverse operational portfolio, our Upstream, 
Downstream and Chemical businesses have established 
detailed OIMS guidelines. These guidelines describe how 
each business unit addresses the 65 corporate expectations 
relevant to that business unit’s operations. Additionally, 
management is responsible for ensuring that management 
systems satisfying the framework are in place at each 
operating unit. 

OIMS includes a systematic, disciplined approach to measure 
progress and track accountability across business lines, 
facilities and projects. To drive continuous improvement, we 
evaluate opportunities to improve the OIMS framework by 
periodically reviewing and upgrading it. 

External standards and OIMS

OIMS addresses the management of SSH&E risks at our 
operations worldwide. OIMS conforms to recognized 
safety, security, health and environmental standards, such 
as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), 
the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 
for occupational health and safety management systems 
(OHSAS) and the American Chemistry Council (ACC) 
Responsible Care® requirements.

In 2013, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) 
reviewed our ongoing performance and attested that OIMS  
is consistent with the intent and meets the requirements of 
the environmental management system ISO 14001:2004 
and the occupational health and safety management system 

The OIMS framework

OHSAS 18001:2007. This attestation is valid for three years, 
and our next attestation is scheduled to take place in 2016.

Responsible Care® is the chemical industry’s comprehensive 
health, safety, security and environmental performance 
improvement initiative. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance 
Inc. also certifies OIMS conformance to Responsible Care 
Management System® Technical Specification RC101.04 per 
ACC’s requirements. Systems within OIMS are linked to the 
relevant Responsible Care Management System® expectations. 
This approach allows ExxonMobil to run its business through 
one SSH&E management system, OIMS, and align with local 
and global standards.

Driver

1

Management
leadership,
commitment and
accountability

Operations

2
Risk assessment
and management

3
Facilities design
and construction

4
Information/
documentation

5
Personnel
and training

8
Third-party
services

6
Operations
and maintenance

7
Management
of change

9
Incident
investigation
and analysis 

10
Community
awareness and
emergency 
preparedness

Evaluation

11

Operations integrity
assessment and
improvement

The Operations Integrity Management System framework is built around 11 elements, each covering a key aspect of risk across ExxonMobil’s global operations.

16

ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management Systemexxonmobil.com/citizenship 
ExxonMobil’s culture of risk management 
Application of OIMS is required across all of ExxonMobil’s 
operations, with particular emphasis on design, construction 
and operations. Regardless of job function, all ExxonMobil 
employees and third-party contractors have the responsibility 
and expectation to identify, assess and mitigate the risks  
associated with their activities and ExxonMobil operations. 

“OIMS is the way we do business. It ensures that we manage 
SSH&E risks in a consistent and reliable manner to achieve 
operational excellence. OIMS is embedded in our culture and 
has resulted in behaviors that reflect our core values.”

Paul Schuberth 
Upstream safety, security, health and 
environment manager

OIMS enables ExxonMobil — a large organization that operates 
across diverse cultures and geographies — to speak the same 
language when it comes to safety and risk management. The 
OIMS framework is embedded in ExxonMobil’s company 
culture. In 2013, as part of our commitment to continual 
improvement, we introduced a new training experience 
called the OIMS Leadership Academy. The training is aimed 
at enhancing the OIMS leadership skills of supervisors 
and managers, who then lead and run the business with 
more effective utilization of OIMS, thus improving SSH&E 
performance and minimizing incidents. In total, we have 
trained more than 1,000 supervisors in 36 courses. 

OIMS and corporate citizenship 
Our approach to corporate citizenship is intended to 
contribute to society’s broader sustainability objectives.  
We believe OIMS plays a key role in ExxonMobil’s corporate 
citizenship efforts by communicating expectations to 
employees, measuring progress and helping ensure results 
adhere to our SSH&E commitments. For example, OIMS 
element 6 requires the leadership teams running our facilities 
to anticipate and meet all applicable laws, regulations, permits 
and other governmental requirements and ensure the resulting 
operating requirements are documented and communicated 

to those affected. We periodically verify compliance of our 
operations with these obligations. 

We recognize that the impact of our operations extends 
beyond our work sites, and therefore element 10 of 
OIMS addresses community awareness and emergency 
preparedness. Effective management of stakeholder 
relationships is important to enhance the trust and confidence 
of the communities where we operate. Emergency planning 
and preparedness are essential to ensure that, in the event of 
an incident, all necessary actions are taken for the protection 
of the public, our personnel, the environment and our assets.

For example, continued application of OIMS principles in our 
drilling operations helps us achieve our vision of Nobody Gets 
Hurt. In 2005, our drilling operations developed the hurt-free 
approach to personnel safety. The hurt-free approach was 
developed as an alternative to traditional treatment-based 
programs to align with the vision of Nobody Gets Hurt. It 
provides a framework that enables a culture of caring while  
also allowing for insightful trends analysis through consistent 
assessment of actual incident severity and potential 
consequence. In response to its success in our drilling 
operations, we rolled out the approach to the Upstream 
business in 2012 and are now implementing it company-wide.  

We hold internal and external workshops and collaborative 
meetings to promote the hurt-free approach across the 
corporation and across our industry. We have been able 
to demonstrate that drilling operations can be performed 
all over the world in a safe and environmentally sound 
manner, whether in an Arctic environment or other 
high-risk environments with appropriate application of 
risk management principles and programs. We will not 
sacrifice the safety of our employees or our contractors in 
order to deliver on our commitments to business partners 
and shareholders.

Kristen Kuhn standing aboard the Maersk Viking drill ship in the  
Julia field, Gulf of Mexico. 

17

ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management Systemexxonmobil.com/citizenshipSafety, health and 
the workplace

Jessica Berkey, a worker at our Joliet 
Refinery in Illinois, United States. The Joliet 
Refinery employs more than 600 people 
and is a leader in energy efficiency among 
U.S. refineries. No matter where in the world 
we work, we are relentless in our pursuit of 
Nobody Gets Hurt.

At ExxonMobil, our efforts to protect the safety and health of 
our employees, contractors and communities are fundamental 
to our long-term business success. As such, we are committed 
to providing the energy needed to power the world’s progress 
safely and responsibly. We seek to promote a culture of safety 
and health by attracting, developing and retaining individuals 
who share our core values and our commitment to integrity 
and operational excellence.

Safety

At ExxonMobil, safety is more than just a priority — it is a core 
value and an integral part of our culture that applies to every 
aspect of our operations. Wherever we are in the world, we 
are committed to doing the right thing, the right way, every 
time so that every employee and contractor comes home from 
work safe and healthy each day. We will never stop working 
toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. 

“We all have a responsibility to manage risk as part of our 
roles, be that technical, operational or financial. Identifying, 
assessing and managing the risks is key to our operations 
integrity. I am proud to see the leadership and commitment 
toward safety everywhere I go, embedded in our corporate 
culture around the world. We are truly relentless as we 
work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt.”

Lynne Lachenmyer 
Safety, security, health and environment vice president

ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System 
(OIMS) drives the sustainability of our disciplined approach 
to safety. OIMS is embedded in our everyday work and 
serves as the foundation for managing our risks. For more 
information about OIMS, see page 15. As a result of our 
disciplined approach, we continue to reduce incidents and 
work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. However, when 
an accident or near miss does occur, we investigate the 
incident and all potential outcomes and evaluate barriers to 
preventing future occurrences. As part of our commitment 
to continuous improvement, we look at leading indicators 

that allow for a closer analysis of incidents with potentially 
severe consequences in order to enhance our risk prevention 
and mitigation. We then share incidents through our global 
networks to ensure lessons learned are implemented across 
our worldwide operations. 

Personnel safety 
Regardless of job function, all ExxonMobil employees and 
third-party contractors have the responsibility and expectation 
to identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with our 
operations. Over the past 10 years, we have reduced our 
workforce lost-time incident rate by more than 30 percent. We 
will continue to work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt. 

We deeply regret that two of our contractors were fatally 
injured in two separate incidents related to ExxonMobil 
operations in 2015. The incidents were related to work at one 

of our fueling stations and installation of electrical hardware 
at one of our major projects. We thoroughly investigated 
these incidents to determine contributing factors, then 
identified steps to prevent similar incidents and enhanced our 
work practices and facilities accordingly. We have processes 
in place to look at all incidents, even those that did not result 
in injuries, to understand the potential consequences. By 
applying this process, we seek to learn from any incident. We 
will relentlessly pursue this goal until we achieve our stated 
vision of Nobody Gets Hurt.

As part of our operations-wide dedication to safety,  
we strive for effective collaboration between all workers, 
including third-party suppliers and contractors. Every day,  
our contractors take part in safety training and safety 
meetings alongside our employees. A key element in our 
strategy for contractors is the enhancement of leadership 

Lost-time incident rate1

Total recordable incident rate2

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

0.30

0.25

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 2014 2015

ExxonMobil workforce

American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmark

In 2015, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 
0.034, slightly higher than the previous year. Over the past decade, we have 
reduced this rate by more than 30 percent. When compared with the American 
Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil 
continues to be below the industry average. 

1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries 
 and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, around 5 to 10 percent of the 
 incidents are illness-related.

1.0

0.9

0.8

0.7

0.6

0.5

0.4

0.3

0.2

0.1

0

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 2014 2015

ExxonMobil workforce

American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmark

In 2015, ExxonMobil’s total recordable workforce incident rate per 200,000 work 
hours was 0.24, a slight decrease from 2014. Over the past decade, we have 
reduced this rate by more than 30 percent. When compared with the American 
Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil 
continues to be below the industry average. 

2Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries 
 and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, around 5 to 10 percent of the 
 incidents are illness-related. 

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

19

Up Close:
Safety milestones and awards

We are proud of our culture of safety, and we strive to be a 
global safety leader. One of the most significant measures for 
ExxonMobil as a company is our safety performance. In 2015, 
ExxonMobil and our affiliates around the world achieved the 
following safety milestones and awards: 

•  The Odoptu Stage 2 project on the northeastern coast 
of Sakhalin Island, Russia, safely completed 3.8 million 
hours of work at the Odoptu site in 2015, and a total of 
7.7 million hours since project site work began in late 2012, 
without a recordable or lost-time injury. The strong safety 
performance is the result of engaged leadership and a 
team-wide commitment to embracing the core values in 
safety, security, health and environment.

• 

In June 2015, ExxonMobil’s Rotterdam refinery in the  
Netherlands received a VOMI Safety eXperience Award. 
VOMI is a trade organization in the Netherlands for 
companies in the process industry. The VOMI Safety 
eXperience Award is a new initiative aimed to increase the 
level of safety awareness perceived by people working “on 
the shop floor.” Through this award, VOMI gives a voice to 
an especially important group of people for whom this level 
of safety is critical. 

•  ExxonMobil’s venture office in Rio De Janeiro, Brazil,  

passed a safety milestone in 2015, achieving more than  
1 million hours of safe work. This achievement represents 
an accumulation of 18 years of team effort and safety focus. 

• 

In 2015, the Malaysian Society for Occupational Safety 
and Health honored our Kuala Lumpur business support 
center (KLBSC) with the 2014 Occupational Safety and 
Health Gold Class I Award, the highest award given in the 
sector. The award recognizes our exceptional safety and 
health management and performance in various areas. 

“We could not have achieved this honor without strong 
support from the other functions in Malaysia such as 
facilities and SSH&E, as well as the management team. 
The prestigious award highlights the strong commitment 
toward safety by KLBSC employees and is a testament to 
ExxonMobil’s commitment to strong safety programs.”

Chin Chien Hoong 
Site lead, KLBSC

practices and safety management systems. Since 2000, we 
have conducted ongoing safety leadership forums with the 
contractors working on our major projects, with the focus 
on establishing a partnership between ExxonMobil and our 
contractors that leads to an injury-free workplace.

For example, within our portfolio of Arctic projects, the  
Sakhalin-1 project held its 12th annual contractor safety 
forum on Sakhalin Island for about 200 people. Local author-
ities, contractors and Exxon Neftegas Limited managers 
emphasized the importance of making a difference with our 
core safety, security, health and environmental (SSH&E) values 
including Nobody Gets Hurt and Protect Tomorrow. Today. 
The forum covered topics including eliminating high conse-
quence incidents, health awareness, environmental protection 
and community contributions. For more information about 
Protect Tomorrow. Today., see page 46. 

Our affiliate, Esso Angola, achieved its best safety perfor-
mance during significantly expanded activity in production, 
drilling and project execution, including the completion of 
Phase 2 of the Kizomba Satellites project. This notable safety 
performance was a result of the continuous hard work of 
affiliate personnel as well as strong engagement in safety pro-
grams, such as “boots on the ground,” a program designed to 
increase supervisor and employee engagement at the work-
place. By increasing this interaction, supervisors can better 
mentor newly hired staff around our desired safety culture, 
one in which our employees care for each other. 

Boots on the ground program

“Achieving success has a lot to do with effective collaboration 
and a team approach with all involved, including our contrac-
tors, co-ventures and the government of Angola.” 

Edson Dos Santos 
Kizomba C operations superintendent

Workers commemorate safety performance at our Odoptu site on Sakhalin Island in 2015.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

20

In 2015, we continued to look for ways to prevent high- 
potential incidents in our operations. For example, we are 
exploring technologies that detect a worker’s presence in 
the blind spots of heavy construction equipment to avoid 
accidents. We have taken our experience and shared it in 
construction industry forums to advance these technologies 
by encouraging use beyond the oil and gas industry.  

Process safety 
Our commitment to process safety — the equipment, 
procedures and training that prevent the uncontrolled release 
of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances — is a core value 
that shapes risk management across our operations. We seek 
to ensure our facilities are well-designed and safely operated 
to prevent potential safety incidents. To that end, we use a 
comprehensive and disciplined approach to identify, eliminate 
or manage process safety risks associated with our operations, 
which employs layers of preventive and mitigative barriers, 
including equipment, processes and people, as illustrated in 
the graphic on the right.

Process safety incident triangle

dicators
g in
gin
Lag

Tier 1
LOPC events of
greater consequence

Tier 2
LOPC events of lesser consequence

Tier 3
Challenges to safety systems

L

e

a

d

i

n

g

i

n

d

i

c

a

t

o

r

s

Tier 4
Operating discipline and management system performance indicators

As part of the American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 
and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456 industry 
standards, the process safety incident triangle is used to represent events 
from Tier 1 through Tier 4.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

Eliminate serious incidents

At ExxonMobil, we look to ensure effective barriers are intact.

Know the major hazards
Major asset-specific hazards 
are known.

Understand the barriers
Barriers are defined and 
individual responsibilities 
are assigned to protect 
from and mitigate risks.

Maintain barrier health
Barrier effectiveness is assessed 
and regularly discussed.

d
r
a
z
a
H

Preventive
barriers

Event

Mitigative
barriers

C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
c
e

“When managing process safety, we focus on both facility 
risks and human performance risks. It takes relentless 
leadership throughout the organization with mechanisms  
to ensure accountability at all levels and verification that 
these risks are managed effectively 24 hours a day, 7 days  
a week, 365 days a year.”

2014. Tier 1 process safety events are tracked and analyzed in 
our overall efforts to prevent significant events. In 2015, events 
occurred in various phases of our operations and include 
equipment malfunction and person or equipment interface. 
Event analysis is used to enhance our prevention efforts and 
organizational learning.

Bob Bailes 
Downstream and Chemical safety, security, health and 
environment manager

We subscribe to the American Petroleum Institute (API) 
Recommended Practice 754 and the International Association 
of Oil & Gas Producers No. 456, which are industry standards. 
These standards define process safety indicators and use 
a process safety incident triangle to represent events from 
Tier 1 through Tier 4, as seen on the left. Tiers 1 and 2 include 
incidents resulting in a loss of primary containment (LOPC). 
According to the API, LOPC is defined as an unplanned or 
uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, 
including nontoxic and nonflammable materials. Tiers 3 and 
4 represent near-misses and leading performance measures 
such as on-time maintenance performance. In 2015, we had 
74 Tier 1 process safety events, which is slightly higher than 

Our focus on process safety remains high, with a continued 
emphasis on ensuring that preventive and mitigative barriers 
are in place. We recognize that a significant process safety 
event at any site affects everyone in the industry by eroding 
stakeholder trust. When such incidents do occur, we are 
committed to learning from them and taking steps to prevent 
a recurrence. We deeply regret the incident that occurred on 
February 18, 2015, at the Torrance refinery and are thankful 
there were no serious injuries or community health impacts. 
We are working with regulators to thoroughly investigate 
the incident, and we are applying the lessons learned by 
enhancing operating procedures, monitoring equipment and 
training at ExxonMobil refineries. We will share our findings 
with the refining industry to help prevent future occurrences.

Collaborating with our peers and industry associations on 
process safety is paramount to sharing lessons learned 
within our company and across our industry. ExxonMobil 
serves as a contributing member to a variety of groups and 

21

 
initiatives focused on improving safety in the industry. For 
example, we actively engage in the Advancing Process Safety 
initiative, a collaborative effort between the American Fuel and 
Petrochemical Manufacturers and the API, representing nearly 
all of the U.S. refining capacity. This initiative is focused on 
improving process safety performance across the industry by 
sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety events, 
hazard identification metrics and industry-proven practices.

Product safety and responsibility 
We recognize the importance of managing and communi-
cating product safety information to those who handle and use 
ExxonMobil products, including employees and contractors 
within our operations as well as with our customers, consumers, 
governments and regulators. To promote product stewardship, 
we carefully assess the safety, health and environmental aspects 
of our products, as well as compliance with product safety 
legislation for all intended markets. 

ExxonMobil’s approach to product safety is defined by the 
product safety policy, found within ExxonMobil’s Standards of 
Business Conduct. Each ExxonMobil business unit has devel-
oped management systems that address the key elements in 
our product safety policy. These management systems are 
reviewed on a routine basis to ensure compliance with the 
policy. Additionally, components of the management systems 
are in line with product safety guidelines developed by  
IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environ-
mental and social issues, and the International Council  
of Chemical Associations.

A key component of these systems is the communication of 
the potential hazards and risks from the use of our products. 
Our rigorous Product Stewardship Information Management 
System applies common global processes and computer 
systems to capture and communicate information on the 
safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products, as 
well as emergency contact information. This system enables 
ExxonMobil businesses to comply with changing regional and 
national hazard communication regulations with the adoption 
of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and 
Labelling Chemicals developed by the United Nations. In the 
past year, more than 27,000 safety data sheets for ExxonMobil 
products and manufacturing streams have been authored and 
distributed as part of the implementation of this guidance by 
several national and regional regulatory authorities, including:

•  Argentina
•  Brazil
•  Israel
•  Korea
•  Malaysia

•  New Caledonia
•  Singapore
•  Turkey
•  United States

In 2015, the Association of International Chemical 
Manufacturers (AICM) awarded ExxonMobil China the 
Chairman’s Award in Responsible Care for exemplary 
achievement in safety, health and environmental performance. 
This is the second time that our operations in China have 
been recognized by AICM for its safe chemical product 
management and handling.  

Over the past several years, the industry has seen a significant 
increase in the utilization of rail transport for crude oil, primarily 
due to new unconventional production sources. In the 
North American market, ExxonMobil manages one of the 
largest shipper rail fleets in our industry to move our crude oil, 
plastics, chemicals, lubricants and fuels products to customers. 
We believe safe transport by rail is a shared responsibility, 
covering rail maintenance, train operations, rail car integrity 
and emergency response. We have comprehensive risk 
management plans in place to help ensure rail transportation 
of all products is conducted in a safe manner. These plans 
address rail car design as well as loading and unloading 
procedures. Additionally, we regularly engage with our 
industry peers and emergency responders to promote the 
safe transport of oil products and develop improved training 
programs for public responders across North America.

Emergency preparedness  
and response 

The ability to respond to emergencies promptly is critical, and 
we conduct extensive training and drills to prepare for such 
situations. At ExxonMobil, we believe effective emergency 
preparedness requires competent response teams. To that 
end, we establish strategic emergency support groups (ESGs) 
around the world to develop and practice emergency response 
strategies and assist field responders. We routinely train ESG 
members, a wide variety of ExxonMobil employees, on a 
range of possible scenarios, including simulated spills, fires, 

explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. In 2015, 
550 employees participated in 35 ESG training sessions. 

ExxonMobil takes a disciplined and structured “command and 
control” approach to emergency preparedness that is based on 
clear communication. Regardless of the size of an event, each 
ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to a wide array 
of trained responders, including our regional response teams 
(RRTs), which provide rapid tactical support when needed. 
Our three RRTs — North America; Europe, Africa and Middle 
East; and Asia Pacific — address tactical issues associated 
with the field response. The RRTs comprise approximately 
500 ExxonMobil personnel trained in one consistent 
management system with common roles and responsibilities. 
In total, the RRTs completed four training exercises in 2015, 
with approximately 400 ExxonMobil participants. 

In May 2015, the North America RRT held a two-day exercise in 
Seattle, Washington, for ExxonMobil affiliate SeaRiver Maritime. 
As part of the exercise, participants responded to a simulated 
release of 80,000 barrels of oil from a marine vessel. One 
key objective of the exercise included educating participants 
on the value and use of a net environmental benefit analysis 

Workers deploy a containment boom as part of an emergency 
response training exercise in Australia.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

22

Up Close:
Expanding emergency 
preparedness and response 
capabilities

ExxonMobil is committed to improving our emergency 
preparedness by enhancing our response programs, processes 
and training offerings. In 2015, the emergency preparedness 
and response center of excellence supported ExxonMobil 
Upstream affiliates in implementing a global incident command 
system (ICS). By implementing this system globally, ExxonMobil 
can utilize common response processes that allow personnel 
from different affiliates to easily assist one another if needed. 
The ExxonMobil RRTs also use ICS, which allows them to 
seamlessly integrate into affiliate teams.  

to mitigate impacts from a crude oil release. Additionally, in 
October 2015, ExxonMobil executed an oil spill response 
deployment exercise at our Baytown complex in Texas. The 
exercise was intended to meet regulatory requirements as well 
as demonstrate our North America RRT’s response readiness 
abilities. In total, more than 120 personnel were involved in the 
training event, including volunteers from our refining and supply, 
midstream, chemical and production operations.

“The quality of the exercise and high degree of professional-
ism by all involved is a clear demonstration of ExxonMobil’s 
commitment to emergency preparedness and response. I 
was also very encouraged to see such a strong partnership 
with the regulatory agencies that participated.”

Lisa VanderLaan 
Safety, security, health and environment  
support manager

We continually look for innovative ways to provide emergency 
preparedness and response training in a safe and controlled 
environment. For example, we are exploring the use of 

Our use of ICS is aligned with the National Incident 
Management System and allows us to respond in a seamless 
fashion with federal, state, local and tribal responders in the 
United States and abroad.

In addition to ICS, we are rolling out a common operating 
picture (COP). COP is a computing platform based on 
geographic information system (GIS) technology that 
provides a single source of data and information to improve 
situational awareness and accelerates decision-making for 
emergency response or project planning activities. The GIS 
data and information can be from ExxonMobil sources as 
well as publicly available information to depict “big picture” 
images of places and situations. Both ICS and COP have 
been successfully implemented in the United States, with 
an emphasis on the Gulf of Mexico, as well as piloted 
internationally during Upstream exercises in Australia, 
Indonesia and Russia. We have also rolled out ICS to our 
operations in Angola, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Malaysia 
and Norway.

immersive 3-D simulator technology for conducting emer-
gency response training for plant operators. This technology 
uses ultra-realistic virtual reality operating conditions to create 
lifelike training scenarios. We are currently testing a full-scale 
simulator of an actual gas processing facility in Qatar to 
provide realistic training on more than 300 interactive control 
devices in six gas processing units.

Workplace security 

Ensuring the security of our people, physical assets and 
intellectual property is systematically embedded in our daily 
operations. We employ consistent worldwide practices to 
address security challenges in the diverse locations where 
we do business. Our new facilities go through a security 
analysis that takes into account potential risks, the application 
of countermeasures, relationships with communities and 
compliance with applicable laws. 

ExxonMobil regularly assesses potential threats to our  
operations. Our security personnel commonly participate in 
security-related drills, training and industry forums to  

In 2015, regional response team members in Australia pilot the incident  
command system and common operating picture.

enhance our established risk management methodologies, 
threat-assessment capabilities and technical security appli-
cations. In higher-risk locations, we monitor local conditions 
and maintain detailed security preparedness plans, such as 
evacuation and intruder response plans. Security-related 
response plan review and training was a key area of interest 
for ExxonMobil in 2015. Employees traveling to and residing in 
severe- and high-threat countries received specialized training 
designed to provide information about potential threats and 
appropriate responses in challenging security environments. 
Security-related plans were also reviewed and refreshed to 
better ensure response to events were effective and efficient.  

As the threat of cybersecurity continues to evolve, we must 
protect our business against the growing risk of cyberattacks, 
which can potentially affect our data, facilities and operations. 
In 2015, 100 percent of our employees and contractors 
completed Web-based cybersecurity training on how to 
identify and respond to potential cybersecurity risks, in 
addition to an ongoing awareness program to reinforce safe 
computing behaviors. On average, our cybersecurity screening 
programs block more than 64 million emails, 139 million 
Internet access attempts and 133,000 other potentially 
malicious actions each month.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

23

 
Health and wellness 

ExxonMobil cares about the health and well-being of our 
workforce and their families. Our health policy communicates 
the corporate expectations for identifying and evaluating health 
risks related to our operations that can potentially affect our 
employees, contractors or the public. We seek to address the 
diverse health considerations prevalent in the different locations 
in which we work by creating effective and efficient solutions 
that protect our workforce and operations from major health 
threats. We also provide voluntary health programs to our 
employees that are designed to promote enhanced well-being 
and productivity.

To ensure our occupational health risks are credibly assessed, 
prioritized and documented, we utilize an exposure assessment 
strategy to identify and evaluate health risks related to our 
operations, as identified by OIMS. Health hazard exposure 
assessments for field work activities are conducted by our 
industrial hygiene professionals using a comprehensive global 
approach that not only identifies and evaluates health hazards, 
but also provides for risk-based prioritization.

To protect our workers and their families while preventing 
potential operation disruptions, ExxonMobil developed 
prevention, control and monitoring programs that address 
the threat of infectious diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, 
HIV/AIDS, Ebola and other outbreaks. For example, our 
Malaria Control Program is designed to prevent and quickly 
manage malaria cases among employees and contractors 
working in or traveling to malaria-prone areas. Since 2007, 
no malaria-related deaths among ExxonMobil workers have 
been reported. In addition, no operational disruptions due 
to an infectious disease outbreak have been reported in 
company workplaces since 2010. For information about our 
efforts to eliminate malaria in the communities where we 
operate, see page 66.

Leveraging our ongoing efforts to combat infectious diseases 
enabled us to swiftly mobilize to help communities address 
the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa, which took a toll on 
the region and resulted in more than 11,000 deaths from 
2014 to 2015. During that time, ExxonMobil worked to ensure 
the safety of our employees and contractors in the region, 
none of whom were directly impacted by the virus.  

In total, ExxonMobil contributed more than $670,000 to 
Ebola-related community health investments.

ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health is our U.S.-based health 
and wellness program, which is designed to support the 
health of our employees and reduce health care costs. We 
provide collaborative health education, nutrition and fitness 
programs that are formatted to meet the needs of a variety 
of work environments such as offices and manufacturing 
sites. Additionally, we offer employees health coaching and 
disease management. 

Supporting a culture of health outside the United States 
is also a priority. Our Culture of Health pilot programs in 
Argentina, Malaysia, Nigeria and the United Kingdom moved 
into sustainment phase at the end of 2015. In each country, 
we develop programs within the context of different health 
care systems, health needs and available resources. We offer 
benefits plans that comply with or exceed applicable country 
laws or regulations.

In recent years, ExxonMobil has taken a leadership role in 
minimizing and mitigating worker fatigue, which has the 
potential to impact the health and safety of our workforce. 
Studies show that, in addition to being safer, individuals 
who are rested and alert are less likely to experience 
personal health issues including cardiovascular, immune 
and psychosocial conditions. Because of this, we have 
implemented relevant programs at a variety of our sites, 
including refineries, chemical plants and pipeline operations in 
the United States, as well as some of our Upstream facilities 
in Canada. Additionally, we have started integrating personal 
fatigue management into our Culture of Health programs.

Workforce 

We consider our approximately 73,500 employees to be our 
greatest asset. For this reason, ExxonMobil seeks to foster 
a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals who are 
dedicated to integrity, high-quality work and good corporate 
citizenship. Our career-oriented approach to developing an 
exceptional workforce includes recruiting outstanding talent 
and supporting long-term professional development.

Employment practices and policies
As a global organization, the diversity and inclusion of thought,  
skill, knowledge and culture across our company facilitates 
innovation and is a key competitive advantage. Through a 
range of programs, activities and investments, we strive to 
create and maintain a diverse workforce representative of the 
numerous geographies where we do business. Our Global 
Diversity Framework is the foundation for this approach, with 
three interrelated objectives:

•  Attract, develop and retain a premier workforce from 
the broadest possible pool to meet our business 
needs worldwide.

•  Actively foster a productive work environment that allows  
every employee to contribute fully to the achievement  
of superior business results — an environment where 
individual and cultural differences are respected and 
valued, and where all employees are encouraged to 
achieve their ultimate potential.

• 

Identify and develop leadership capabilities for  
performing effectively in a variety of international  
and cultural environments.

Global Diversity Booklet

“I have worked in several geographies and financial 
positions with individuals from many different backgrounds 
and cultures. I am constantly reminded that we have a  
large number of capable individuals with differing skills  
and approaches throughout this company. It is important 
that they are all engaged in furthering our business 
objectives. We accomplish this by providing an environment 
where everyone can contribute and can continually grow 
and develop both personally and professionally.”

Carol Peters 
Associate general tax counsel

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

24

  
Up Close:
ExxonMobil’s  
Houston campus

In 2015, ExxonMobil completed construction of a new 
state-of-the-art campus in Houston, Texas, which hosts 
around 10,000 employees in our Upstream, Downstream 
and Chemical companies and associated service groups. We 
believe the campus will foster improved health and wellness 
among employees and enhance our ability to attract, develop 
and retain the top talent in the industry. The campus design is 
based on extensive research into best practices in workplace 
health, wellness and collaboration.  

For example, the campus is designed with an open floor plan 
that optimizes the use of natural light and encourages collabo-
rative opportunities for its co-located businesses and services. 
Specifically, the campus features highly networked, shared, 
multipurpose work spaces that create a collaborative work 
environment. In addition to increased collaboration, research 
indicates that the open floorplan concept can lead to improved 
productivity, engagement and innovation over the long term.

“The combination of our new central SSH&E organization 
and co-location at the new campus has brought our 
environment, regulatory and socioeconomic professionals 
together like never before. It has enabled collaboration 
within our organization and across our business lines both 
on a large and small scale, facilitating learnings and sharing 
of best practices. Individuals who may have interacted 
once or twice every couple years previously now see each 
other on a daily basis and seek input from individuals from 
diverse backgrounds.”

Christine Byrne 
Environment manager

The campus also features an extensive network of paths and 
walkways linking it with natural and cultivated landscapes. 
Surveys at the campus identified 343 ecologically valuable 

ExxonMobil employees collaborating at the Houston campus.

trees, of which 213 were preserved in place. Professional 
arborists moved the remaining trees to other locations 
within the campus and are providing observation and 
care to ensure their continued health. We also installed a 
system to collect rainwater from the property. More than 
80 percent of the water used on site is reclaimed and reused 
for cooling and irrigation needs. Overall, the campus uses 
90 percent less potable water than the national average for 
commercial buildings.

To support a healthy lifestyle among employees, the 
Houston campus includes a 100,000 square-foot wellness 
center complete with a three-story glass atrium, cardio and 
strength training facilities, a basketball court and personal 
training services.  

By the end of 2015, more than 30 percent of the campus 
residents had enrolled in the campus wellness center. 
ExxonMobil cares about the well-being of our employees as 
well as their families. The on-campus Explorers Club is designed 
to provide ExxonMobil employees with quality child care 
services for children ages six weeks to pre-kindergarten.  

Additionally, campus residents enjoy a wide array of on-site 
healthy dining venues to support a sustainable diet. Dining 
selections include a variety of nutritional options and choices 
for special diets, all of which align with ExxonMobil’s Culture 
of Health program. Menu boards at the respective stations 
outline the most current Culture of Health menu options, 
which are periodically offered at employee events.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

25

Our global policies promote diversity and inclusion and 
prohibit any form of discrimination, including those based 
on sexual orientation and gender identity. At ExxonMobil, 
harassment, even in its most subtle forms, directly conflicts 
with company policy and is not tolerated. Every employee is 
subject to disciplinary action, including termination, for any 
act of harassment. We employ a comprehensive training 
and stewardship program to ensure employees worldwide 
understand, implement and follow our anti-harassment 
policy. Additionally, our annual reporting and compliance 
procedures include a letter to senior managers emphasizing 
their responsibility to maintain work environments free from 
harassment and discrimination.

Diversity and inclusion
We support local employee networks to foster an environ- 
ment committed to diversity and inclusion. The voluntary,  
employee-led groups offer networking, development pro-
grams and community service, and proactively mentor and 
assimilate new employees. Some of these networks include:

•  Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE)
•  Black Employee Success Team (BEST)
•  Global Organization for the Advancement  

of Latinos (GOAL)

•  People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity  

of Employees (PRIDE)

•  Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST)
•  Women’s Interest Network (WIN)

We engage a wide range of education programs and 
recruiting activities that are intended to reach out to a 
diverse pool of highly qualified employment candidates. 
ExxonMobil’s internships and financial aid initiatives play a 
key role in our diversity recruiting, through practical work 
experience, scholarships and university grants. We also 
support professional organizations such as the National 
Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers, 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the National 
Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, among others. 
ExxonMobil believes these strategic investments in education 
will help build a source of diverse, talented individuals. For 
more information on our education initiatives, see page 66.

Our Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our 
employment, including recruitment, hiring, work assignments, 
promotions, transfers and terminations, as well as wage and 
salary administration. The Standards support our commitment 
to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit harassment 
and discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable 
laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. 

We provide training on the Standards for new employees 
and offer regular refresher courses to current employees. 
Additionally, we use a series of Web-based trainings and tools 
to help our employees understand effective communication 
and cultural sensitivities across a diverse workforce. We strictly 
prohibit any form of discrimination by or toward employees, 
contractors, suppliers or customers in any ExxonMobil 
working environment.

Standards of Business Conduct

2015 workforce by geographic region3

Thousands of employees

Africa/Middle East

3.9

Canada

7.0

United States

30.4

Total workforce

73.5

Asia Pacific

13.3

Latin America

3.6

Europe

15.3

In 2015, our total workforce was approximately 73,500, slightly lower than the 
total workforce in 2014. The largest concentration of ExxonMobil employees is 
in the United States with 30,400, followed by Europe and Asia Pacific with 
15,300 and 13,300, respectively. Our global reach directly contributes to the 
diversity of our workforce and the success of our business. 

3Data exclude company-operated retail store employees.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

“My WIN leadership team’s role is to promote individual and 
collective growth to support women to achieve their ultimate 
potential. We serve as a catalyst to improve business acumen, 
promote fellowship to enhance contributions to the business 
and cultivate hundreds of successful mentoring relationships 
that help women achieve their career goals. I am proud of our 
WIN accomplishments, which are reflected in the growth and 
advancement of women in technical and leadership roles.” 

Sujata Bhatia 
Project manager, gas and power marketing 
Women’s Interest Network chair

We remain committed to improving the gender balance 
within our company. ExxonMobil promotes leadership 
opportunities for women throughout all aspects of the 
employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, 
training, promotions, transfers and wage and salary 

2015 percentage of women 
and minorities by position 
in the United States

Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission reporting

Women

Minorities

16.6%

17.1%

31.9%

26.1%

26.1%

25.2%

Officials and managers

Professionals

Total employees

In the United States, women accounted for approximately 26 percent of our U.S. 
workforce in 2015, with more than 16 percent in leadership positions. Similarly, 
in 2015 minorities accounted for 25 percent of total U.S. employees and our 
minority representation in leadership was 17 percent.

26

Up Close:
Employee resource groups

We believe the training, skills and experiences of veterans are 
a valuable component to a diverse, productive organization. In 
2014, we created our newest employee resource group, the 
Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST), which provides 
mentoring, coaching and networking opportunities designed 
to enhance the personal and professional development of 
our veterans and those who continue to serve. VAST also 
welcomes non-veteran employees to participate in the 
program. In total, VAST supports more than 690 employees. 

In addition to helping onboard ExxonMobil employees who 
are former or current military service personnel, VAST also 
focuses on facilitating recruitment, assimilation, retention 
and advancement of veterans. In November 2015, VAST 
hosted a Veterans Day event at our Houston campus. The 
event brought together veterans and veteran supporters 

administration. In 2015, 41 percent of our worldwide 
management and professional new hires were women.  
This is significantly higher than the percentage of women  
in our broader employee population at 28 percent. In the 
United States, 33 percent of our 2015 engineering hires  
were female, higher than the U.S. percentage of female 
engineering students.

Approximately 17 percent of our executive employees 
worldwide are women, an increase of 50 percent over the 
past decade. This increase, in part, is a result of continued 
focus on early identification of female management 
development candidates. Notably, 29 percent of our early 
career stage executive employees worldwide are women. 
For more information on how we advance opportunities for 
women worldwide, see page 66.

To increase the representation of minorities in our U.S. 
operations, our hiring programs include outreach initiatives 
to identify diverse candidates. For example, through our 
technical scholarship program, we award scholarships to 
ExxonMobil minority interns to assist them in completing 
their college degrees. In 2015, we provided 44 technical 
scholarships, an increase of 80 percent over the past 10 years.

from across ExxonMobil’s operations. In total, more than 
200 people attended the event, during which U.S. Air Force 
Major General Giovanni Tuck discussed the similarities and 
interdependencies between defense logistics and the energy 
industry, as well as the skills and experiences veterans provide 
to the business community.

“As veterans and ExxonMobil employees, my wife Ruth 
and I co-founded VAST to be a resource for veterans 
seeking to leverage their proven leadership skills and 
diverse life experiences. We seek to provide mentorship 
and professional development, which is beneficial both for 
employees and the company.” 

Jeff Vargo 
Construction supervisor, ExxonMobil Development Company 
VAST co-founder

“As a technical scholarship recipient, I was able to grow 
academically and professionally in the chemical industry. 
The scholarship program helped me build a quick network 
of peers and mentors. ExxonMobil has provided the 
opportunity to apply the concepts and skills I learned at 
Howard University, and I am excited to continue learning 
and developing in my role as a process contact engineer 
since joining the company in 2015.” 

Jamille Jamison 
Contact engineer

In 2015, 35 percent of management and professional new 
hires in the United States were minorities. Further, 37 percent 
of our engineering hires were minorities, significantly higher 
than the percentage of U.S. minorities in our broader popu-
lation. Of our U.S. executives, approximately 14 percent are 
minorities, an increase of 70 percent over the past decade 
facilitated by a consistent focus on minority management 
development. Notably, 14 percent of early career U.S.  
executive employees in 2015 were minorities.

U.S. Air Force Major General Giovanni Tuck presents to VAST members 
during a Veterans Day event hosted at the Houston campus.

2015 percentage of female 
management and professional 
new hires by geographic region

Worldwide total

Europe, Africa and Middle East

41%

41%

Asia Pacific

Latin America

North America

51%

59%

32%

In 2015, 41 percent of our worldwide management and professional new hires 
were women, significantly higher than the percentage of women in our broader 
employee population.

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

27

 
Retention and engagement 
Our global, diverse workforce represents a competitive advan-
tage for ExxonMobil. We retain and develop our employees 
by providing an environment where personal and professional 
growth is encouraged and career objectives are developed 
and achieved.

Employee benefits 
Our benefits programs are an integral part of a total remuner-
ation package designed to support our long-term business 
objectives, as well as attract, retain and reward the most 
qualified employees. Our goal is to be responsive to the needs 
of employees throughout their careers and into retirement.

We communicate openly with our employees through 
frequent one-on-one and team discussions as well as larger 
organizational meetings. All employees undergo an annual 
performance assessment and development process, during 
which they have the opportunity to engage in a structured, 
documented discussion with their supervisors about work 
accomplishments, learning objectives, development oppor-
tunities and career interests. This process, coupled with 
company training, mentorship programs and networking 
opportunities, provide the basis for ongoing employee  
growth and continual performance improvement. 

ExxonMobil offers robust corporate and technical training 
programs designed to engage employees in professional 
development. In 2015, our major business units spent 
$124 million on training employees. Of that, we directed 
84 percent toward professional and technical training. In 2015, 
more than 5,000 employees at various levels of the company 
participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training 
programs, of which 32 percent were women and 48 percent 
were employees from outside the United States.

ExxonMobil also offers a variety of workplace flexibility 
programs to maintain engagement and maximize productivity 
by addressing individual employee needs. These workplace 
flexibility programs differ based on the legal requirements, 
infrastructure and culture of locations where we do business. 
Examples of workplace flexibility programs include adaptable 
workplace arrangements, modified workweek, part-time 
regular employment and adjustable work hours. 

Ensuring access to affordable health care helps employees 
effectively manage health care issues and reduces related 
financial concerns. Our funding levels of qualified pension 
plans comply with applicable laws and regulations. Defined 
benefit pension obligations are fully supported by the financial 
strength of ExxonMobil or the respective sponsoring affiliate. 
The company provides retirement benefits that support our 
long-term career orientation and business models.

Training expenditures and
number of employees trained

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$80

$88

$96

$117

$124

65,000

76,000

87,000

79,000

85,000

Spending (millions of dollars)

Employees trained (non-unique participants)

In 2015, ExxonMobil spent $124 million on training employees. In total, 
85,000 non-unique participants at various levels of the company participated 
in ExxonMobil training programs in 2015, a 31 percent increase since 2011. 

Up Close:
Sustainability training for 
Chemical employees

We view all of our employees as ambassadors for 
ExxonMobil. Our employees can help communicate our 
internal efforts and explain our positions on important topics 
to the outside world. By including the topic of sustainability 
in our company training offerings, we can help ensure 
employees understand our approach to sustainability and 
can effectively communicate our sustainability objectives to 
people outside the company. 

Since 2011, we have offered face-to-face training on 
sustainability to commercially facing ExxonMobil Chemical 
Company (EMCC) employees. In 2015, we expanded our 
sustainability training to all EMCC employees as part of a new 
computer-based training platform to help broaden exposure 
to the topic beyond just the commercial organization. 

This computer-based training includes introductory-level 
information such as the definition of sustainability, how 
EMCC incorporates sustainability into its operations, 
emerging sustainability challenges and how individuals can 
contribute to sustainability at home and at work. Since the 
computer-based training was launched in August 2015, 
857 Chemical employees and 75 other employees have 
taken the course.

c i a l  

o

  S

S a f e t y, health and
t h e   workplace

    C

o

r

p

o

r

a

t

e

g

o

v

e

r

n

a

n

c

e

t
n
e
m
p

n
ai
h

nt
e
m

L ocal develo
ply c
and sup
manage

 E

c
o
n
o
m
i
c

nity and
cial impact

u
m
m
o
C

o
s

Sustainability

M

a

n

c

a

h

g

a

n

i

n

g

e

g

c

l
i

m

r
i
s

k

s

a

t

e

E

n

viron

ment

Environmen t a l
performan c e

Safety, health and the workplace
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

28

For information on ExxonMobil’s approach to sustainable development, see page 8.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Managing climate 
change risks

Harold Johnson, lab technician at our Products 
Technology Center in Paulsboro, New Jersey, 
examines a motor oil sample. Since 2000, 
ExxonMobil has spent approximately $7 billion 
to develop lower-emission energy solutions.

Society continues to face the dual challenge of meeting 
energy demand to support the economic growth needed for 
improved living standards, while simultaneously addressing the 
risks posed by rising greenhouse gas emissions and climate 
change. While future temperature changes and the associated 
impacts are difficult to accurately predict, we believe the risks 
of climate change are real and warrant thoughtful action.

ExxonMobil supports advancement of the scientific 
understanding of climate change and is committed to 
providing affordable energy to support human progress while 
advancing effective solutions to address the risks of climate 
change. Our climate change risk management strategy 
includes four components: engaging on climate change policy, 
developing future technology, mitigating greenhouse gas 
emissions in our operations and developing solutions that 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions for our customers.

Engaging on climate  
change policy

Climate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration 
of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders 
to create global solutions. We believe countries need to work 
together to craft policies aimed at mitigating greenhouse 
gas emissions that recognize the priorities and needs of both 
developed and developing countries. We engage stakeholders 
directly and with trade associations around the world to 
encourage sound policy solutions for addressing these risks.

Attributes of sound climate policy
ExxonMobil believes the long-term objective of effective 
policy is to reduce the risks posed by climate change at 
minimum societal cost, in balance with other societal 
priorities such as poverty eradication, education, health, 
security and affordable energy.

We fundamentally believe that free markets, innovation and 
technology are essential to addressing the risks of climate 
change. Success in developing and deploying impactful 
technologies will highly depend on governments creating a 

policy landscape that enables innovation and competition.  
Policies need to be clear and guard against duplicative, 
overlapping and conflicting regulations, which send mixed 
signals to the market and impose unnecessary costs on 
consumers. We believe that effective policies are those that:

Only through a sound global policy framework will the power 
of markets and innovation enable society to find cost-effective 
solutions to address the risks of climate change, while at the 
same time continuing to address the many other challenges 
the world faces. 

•  Promote global participation; 

•  Let market prices drive the selection of solutions; 

•  Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse  

gas emissions across the economy; 

•  Minimize complexity and administrative costs; 

•  Maximize transparency; and

•  Provide flexibility for future adjustments to react to 
developments in climate science and the economic  
impacts of climate policies.

Policies based on these principles minimize overall costs to 
society and allow markets to help determine the most effective 
and commercially viable solutions.

Given the wide range of societal priorities and limited global 
resources, all policies, including climate change policy, must be 
as economically efficient as possible. ExxonMobil believes that 
market-based systems that impose a uniform, economy-wide 
cost on greenhouse gas emissions are more economically 
efficient policy options than mandates or standards. This 
is because market-based policies more effectively drive 
consumer behavior and technology innovation, while 
mandates and standards eliminate consumer choice and  
can perpetuate ineffective technologies.

Since 2009, ExxonMobil has held the view that a properly 
designed, revenue-neutral carbon tax is a more effective 
market-based option than a cap-and-trade approach. A 
carbon tax is more transparent, can be implemented in 
existing tax infrastructure, avoids the complexity of creating 
and regulating carbon markets where none exist and reduces 
greenhouse gas emissions price volatility, thus delivering a 
clearer, more consistent long-term market price signal.

Engaging stakeholders
Managing the risks of climate change will require increased 
innovation and collaboration. Therefore, ExxonMobil engages 
a variety of stakeholders — including policymakers, investors, 
consumers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), 
academics and the public — on climate change issues of 
direct relevance to the company. 

Up Close:
Attributes of sound market-
based policy 

While market-based systems may have different designs and 
regional applications, we believe effective systems are those that 
promote global participation and are characterized as follows: 

•  Apply to all greenhouse gas emissions across the economy;

•  Provide a uniform price for all greenhouse gas emissions; 

•  Apply the costs of greenhouse gas emissions to the parties most 
able and likely to alter behavior in response to a price signal;

•  Prevent shifting of greenhouse gas emissions to unregulated 

jurisdictions;

•  Provide for linkages with other market-based systems 

outside the regulated jurisdiction;

•  Return revenue generated from the system back to the 

economy in an equitable fashion that encourages economic 
growth and limits regressive income effects; and

•  Provide for accurate and cost-effective greenhouse gas emis-

sions measurement, verification and reporting.

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

30

 
Up Close:
Outcomes from COP 21 

In December 2015, parties to the United Nations (UN) Frame-
work Convention on Climate Change convened in Paris for the 
21st Conference of the Parties (COP 21). COP 21 resulted in a 
global agreement which, for the first time, commits all parties 
to undertake action on climate change and report on related 
progress. Key commitments of the agreement include: 

•  “Each party shall prepare, communicate and maintain 
successive nationally determined contributions that it 
intends to achieve.”

•  “Each party shall communicate nationally determined 

contributions every five years.” 

•  “Each party shall regularly provide … a national inventory 

report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals 
by sinks of greenhouse gases” and “information necessary 
to track progress made in implementing and achieving its 
nationally determined contribution.”

Participants at the 21st Conference of the Parties in Paris, December 2015.

ExxonMobil believes that these commitments are a positive 
step in achieving global participation to address climate 
change risks.

For many years, ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy has taken 
into account the potential for climate policies to become 
increasingly stringent over time and impose rising costs 
on energy-related carbon dioxide emissions. Preliminary 
analyses of the aggregation of intended nationally determined 
contributions, which were submitted by governments as part 

of the COP 21 process, indicate a greenhouse gas emissions 
trajectory similar to that anticipated in our Outlook. 

ExxonMobil continues to support and contribute to efforts 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We believe the risks of 
climate change are real and warrant thoughtful action. Meeting 
the climate change challenge will require action from all parts 
of society, including governments, civil society and the private 
sector. We believe it is possible to address climate change 
risks while also meeting growing global energy demand and 
supporting economic development.

ExxonMobil actively advocates for responsible policies that 
would be effective in addressing the risks of climate change. 
When we encounter proposals, we offer informed data and 
policy analysis and engage in thoughtful debate. We have had 
hundreds of meetings with policymakers in the United States, 
the European Union and Canada to share our views on carbon 
pricing policy. We will continue to meet with policymakers 
and other stakeholders to discuss effective approaches to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For additional information 
on ExxonMobil’s approach to political advocacy and contribu-
tions, see page 86.

Our chairman and members of the management committee 
have primary responsibility for — and are actively engaged 
in — managing climate change risks. The board of directors 
receives annual in-depth briefings that cover updates on 
public policy, scientific and technical research, and company 
positions and actions related to climate change.  

To drive improvement, our merit-driven employee 
development and compensation systems integrate 
performance in environmental areas, including emissions  
and energy efficiency.

In order to ensure that our corporate communications accu-
rately reflect our internal policy positions, we employ a  
corporate-wide global climate change and greenhouse gas 
issue management team. As issues arise at the local, state, 
national and regional levels, our global team of experts evaluate 
and develop a company position on the issue. ExxonMobil 
employees also hold key leadership positions, including board 
of director positions, with many trade associations that engage 
on climate change issues, including the American Petroleum 
Institute (API), the International Association of Oil and Gas 
Producers (IOGP) and IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues.

We believe an effective policy response to climate change 
requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. Our 
scientists have been involved in climate change research and 
related policy analysis for more than 30 years. This has resulted 
in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related 
topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications.

While our long-standing and continuous involvement with 
climate science research, often conducted in collaboration 
with governmental bodies and leading universities, has 
advanced the company’s understanding of the climate system, 
ExxonMobil is committed to continued engagement with the 
climate science community in an effort to further develop the 
science. ExxonMobil contributes to a wide range of academic 
and other organizations that research and promote dialogue 
on addressing climate change risks.

Peer-reviewed articles on climate research

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

31

Up Close:
ExxonMobil and the IPCC

For more than 25 years, the IPCC has provided periodic 
assessments of climate change, including information on  
the causes and impacts as well as potential response 
strategies. Experts from ExxonMobil have participated in 
the IPCC since its inception. In October 2014, the IPCC 
completed its Fifth Assessment Report, which offers an 
update of materials related to climate science, including the 
socioeconomic aspects of climate change and its implications 
for sustainable development. Our scientists contributed to the 
IPCC Fifth Assessment Report in lead author, review editor 
and reviewer roles.

The Fifth Assessment reports high confidence in the scientific 
certainty of many aspects of climate change, including that 
atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations are rising in 
response to emissions, the earth’s temperature has warmed 
over the last century and that the risks associated with climate 
change will increase with the magnitude of atmospheric 
greenhouse gas concentration and temperature increases. The 
assessment notes that the ability to forecast the magnitude 
and pattern of future climate change remains less certain and 
confidence declines when moving from a global to local scale.

While the current scientific understanding of climate change 
leaves some unanswered questions, it is clear that the risks 
are real and warrant thoughtful action. ExxonMobil employs a 
risk management strategy and continually strives to improve 
our understanding of the impacts of climate change. As part 
of our Outlook for Energy analysis, we project an energy-
related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions profile through 2040. 
This can be compared with the energy-related CO2 emissions 
profiles from various scenarios outlined by the IPCC. When  
we do this, our Outlook emissions profile approximates  
the IPCC’s intermediate Representative Concentration 
Pathways 4.5 emissions profile in shape, but is slightly  
under it in magnitude.

IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report

We engage with IPIECA on a number of issues, including climate change risks. Rick Mire, environment, regulatory and socioeconomic manager,  
has represented ExxonMobil at IPIECA for more than a decade and has served as chair since 2012.

Experts from our organization have participated in the UN 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since its 
inception. Most recently, our scientists contributed to the IPCC 
Fifth Assessment Report in lead author, review editor and 
reviewer roles. For additional information on the IPCC’s Fifth 
Assessment Report, see the adjacent Up Close. Our scientists 
also participated in the work of the U.S. National Academy of 
Sciences, including its work to review the third U.S. National 
Climate Assessment Report and provide advice to the U.S. 
Global Change Research Program.

Engaging industry
ExxonMobil recognizes the growing interest in climate change 
risks and understands that stakeholders seek a better under-
standing of the positions of the oil and gas industry, as well 
as how individual companies approach the management of 
climate change risks within their own businesses.

IPIECA was established in 1974 at the request of the United 
Nations Environmental Program. As an active IPIECA member, 
ExxonMobil engaged with member companies in advance 
of the December 2015 COP 21 meeting in Paris in order to 

help develop a common industry position on global efforts to 
address and mitigate climate change risks. That work culmi-
nated in The Paris Puzzle — a publication on the challenges 
and responses needed to address the risks of climate change.

IPIECA Paris Puzzle

Recognizing the desire of stakeholders for more accessible 
and clear information, in 2015 we also took a key role collab-
orating with IPIECA and its member companies to create a 
voluntary reporting framework for oil and gas companies to 
publish their climate change risk management approach in a 
simple, straightforward and transparent manner. The resulting 
framework, which IPIECA will pilot during 2016, covers a 
wide range of climate-related issues and provides a consis-
tent reporting methodology for the oil and gas industry. This 
framework should enable interested stakeholders to under-
stand an individual company’s views on the issues central to 
addressing climate change risks.

IPIECA Climate Change Reporting Framework

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

32

Developing future technology

ExxonMobil’s approach to developing future technology

As society transitions to lower greenhouse gas emission 
energy solutions, technological advancements that change 
the way we produce and use energy will be instrumental 
in providing the global economy with the energy it needs 
while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Recognizing the 
limitations associated with most existing low greenhouse 
gas emissions energy technologies, particularly in delivering 
the necessary economy and scale, we are conducting 
fundamental research to develop low greenhouse gas 
emission energy solutions that have the potential to be 
economically feasible without subsidies, standards or 
mandates. ExxonMobil is pioneering scientific research to 
discover innovative approaches to enhance existing and 
develop next-generation energy sources.

ExxonMobil’s Emerging Technologies program brings together 
executives, scientists and engineers from across ExxonMobil’s 
businesses to identify and evaluate technology research 
opportunities with a long-term strategic focus. The Emerging 
Technologies team seeks to understand a wide range of 
technology options and how they may impact the global 
energy system in the near term and as far as 50 years into the 
future. Our evaluation extends well beyond our base business 
and near-term focus. If a technology could have a material 
effect on the future of energy, we insist on knowing about it 
and understanding the related science. Understanding the 
fundamental science serves as a basis for our broader research 
efforts and may lead to further technology development 
aimed at practical application, such as our work on biofuels. 
Additionally, this awareness informs our internal analysis of 
the global energy landscape as reflected and encapsulated in 
our annual Outlook for Energy.

The Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040

Expand access
to energy 

Mitigate
emissions

Promote
science 
for sound
policy

Improve
efficiency

Increase
supply

• Hydrocarbon 
  and renewable 
  energy systems

• Emerging power
  generation 
   technologies

• Methane emissions 
  reduction

• Advanced carbon 
  capture and 
  sequestration

• Climate science,
  economics and 
   policy

• Resilience and 
  preparedness

• Internal combustion
  engine efficiency

• Natural gas to
  products

• Light-weighting
  and packaging
  reduction

• Advanced biofuels, 
  including algae

of programs, including biofuels, carbon capture and 
sequestration, alternative energy and climate science.

“ExxonMobil is a leader in its commitment to fundamental 
science and has a constancy of purpose when looking at 
emerging energy technologies. As part of our commitment, 
we continue to widen our research aperture through 
collaborations with academics and other third parties to 
better enable us to identify potential breakthroughs in 
lower-emission technologies.”

Vijay Swarup 
Vice president, research and development

Climate and Energy Project at Stanford University, which 
seeks to develop fundamental, game-changing scientific 
breakthroughs that could lead to lower greenhouse gas 
emissions and a less carbon-intensive global energy system. 
Other university collaborations cover a wide range of scientific 
topics, from understanding the impacts of black carbon 
and aerosols at the University of California, Riverside to the 
fundamentals of biomass pyrolysis used to make biofuels at 
Iowa State University.

Advanced biofuels
ExxonMobil funds a broad portfolio of biofuels research 
programs including ongoing efforts to develop algae-based 
biofuels, as well as programs for converting non-food based 
feedstocks, such as whole cellulosic biomass, algae-based 
feedstocks and cellulose-derived sugars, into advanced 
biofuels. We believe that additional fundamental technology 
improvements and scientific breakthroughs are still necessary 
in both biomass optimization and the processing of biomass 
into fuels. Specifically, scientific breakthroughs are needed to 
ensure that advanced biofuels can be scaled up economically 
and produced with the desired environmental benefit of lower 
life cycle greenhouse gas emissions.

At the center of our research is ExxonMobil’s Corporate 
Strategic Research laboratory, a fundamental research 
institution with approximately 150 Ph.D. scientists and 
engineers focused on addressing the company’s long-range 
science needs. The laboratory’s scientists are internationally 
recognized experts in their field. Our research portfolio, 
as illustrated in the graphic above, includes a broad array 

In addition to in-house research, the Corporate Strategic 
Research laboratory conducts strategic research with 
leading universities around the world. For example, in 2014, 
ExxonMobil signed an agreement to join the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology Energy Initiative, a collaboration aimed 
at working to advance and explore the future of energy. 
ExxonMobil was also a founding member of the Global 

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

33

Up Close:
Advanced biofuels partnership 
with Michigan State University 

ExxonMobil is a leader in funding and conducting research on 
advanced biofuels. In 2015, ExxonMobil and Michigan State 
University (MSU) launched a partnership to advance biofuel 
research by developing the basic science required to progress 
algae-based fuels and bio-products.

Research has shown that algae photosynthesis can be highly 
efficient under optimal conditions in the laboratory but that 
this efficiency drops under realistic growth conditions. The 
partnership seeks to understand why some strains of algae 
are more efficient than others by using advanced technologies 
to study the photosynthetic processes of many cultures under 
different conditions.

The objective is to eventually process algae bio-oils in 
ExxonMobil refineries to supplement crude oil as the raw 
material to manufacture gasoline, diesel, aviation fuels and 
marine fuels. We are also researching potential applications 
for chemicals and lubricants.

Algae biofuel research and development is a long-term 
endeavor that could take decades to commercialize at scale. 
In this partnership, we are working to build on our significant 
progress since beginning this work in 2009.

“Nature has provided us with a great potential for 
improvement, and there are many strains of algae that 
have adapted to work in different environments. We 
want to determine how they do this and which genes are 
responsible. Then, we can potentially combine traits to 
make strains that are more efficient under harsh conditions.”

David Kramer 
Photosynthesis and bioenergetics professor, MSU-Department of Energy 
Plant and Research Laboratory

Our advanced biofuels research includes joint research 
collaborations with Synthetic Genomics Inc., Renewable 
Energy Group, the Colorado School of Mines, Michigan State 
University, Iowa State University, Northwestern University and 
the University of Wisconsin. For additional information on 
biofuel initiatives in 2015, see the adjacent Up Close.

Energy investment in advanced biofuels

Carbon capture and sequestration
Carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) is the process by 
which CO2 gas that would otherwise be released into the 
atmosphere is captured, compressed and injected into under-
ground geologic formations for permanent storage. With a 
working interest in approximately one-third of the world’s 
total CCS capacity, ExxonMobil is a leader in one of the most  
important next-generation low-carbon technologies. In 2015, 
we captured 6.9 million metric tons of CO2 for sequestration.

ExxonMobil believes the greatest opportunity for future large-
scale deployment of CCS will be in the natural gas-fired power 
generation sector. While CCS technology can be applied 
to coal-fired power generation, the cost to capture CO2 is 
about twice that of natural gas power generation. In addition, 
because coal-fired power generation creates about twice as 
much CO2 per unit of electricity generated, the geological 
storage space required to sequester the CO2 produced from 
coal-fired generation is about twice that associated with  
gas-fired generation.

ExxonMobil is conducting proprietary, fundamental research 
to develop breakthrough carbon capture technologies 
that have the potential to be economically feasible without 
government subsidies, standards or mandates.

Environmental life cycle assessments
Every product has the potential to impact the environment. 
These impacts can be associated with use of the product itself, 
the manufacturing process or the acquisition of raw materials 
used to make the product. As a result, a holistic estimate of 
a product’s environmental impact should reflect its entire 
life cycle. 

Our LaBarge gas plant in Wyoming contributes to the total carbon dioxide 
ExxonMobil captures for sequestration each year.

To help direct our research efforts, we use in-house experts 
and tools to conduct environmental life cycle assessments of 
emerging products and activities. In doing so, we are able to 
assess which technologies have the potential to deliver the 
game-changing results that will be needed to transition the 
energy system to lower-emissions solutions. 

ExxonMobil researchers also collaborate with researchers 
at national laboratories and universities around the globe 
to advance the science of life cycle assessments. In recent 
years, we have developed new approaches for quantifying 
environmental impacts associated with energy systems, and 
published our findings in prestigious peer-reviewed journals. 
Peer-review and collaboration with external scientists 
enhance dialogue with the academic research community 
and bring external expertise and perspective to ExxonMobil 
life cycle assessments, supporting sound science both within 
the company and in the greater scientific community.

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

34

Mitigating greenhouse gas 
emissions in our operations

As we seek to increase production of oil and natural gas to 
meet growing global energy demand, we are committed 
to continuing to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas 
emissions within our operations.

ExxonMobil has a robust set of processes designed to 
improve efficiency, reduce emissions and contribute to 
effective long-term solutions to manage climate change risks. 
These processes include, where appropriate, setting tailored 
objectives at the business, site and equipment levels, and then 

stewarding progress toward meeting those objectives. Based 
on decades of experience, ExxonMobil believes this rigorous  
bottom-up approach is a more effective and meaningful 
way to drive efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas 
emissions reduction than simply setting high-level corporate 
targets. We also believe that continuing to use this approach 
will yield further improvements in all sectors of our business.

In the near term, we are working to increase energy efficiency 
while reducing flaring, venting and fugitive emissions in our 
operations. In the medium term, we are deploying proven 
technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and 
sequestration where technically and economically feasible. 
Longer term, we are conducting and supporting research to 

develop breakthrough, game-changing technologies. Since 
2000, ExxonMobil has spent approximately $7 billion to 
develop lower-emission energy solutions. 

In 2015, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas 
emissions were 122 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. 
Relative to our 2014 performance, our 2015 emissions 
decreased by approximately 1 million CO2-equivalent 
metric tons. This decrease was primarily driven by 
energy efficiency improvement and asset divestment.

2015 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) response

Greenhouse gas emissions (net)1

Greenhouse gas 
emissions (normalized)

Greenhouse gas emissions 
avoided from ExxonMobil actions2

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions                                                 
Metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions 
Millions of metric tons

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

139

135

126

123

126

128

126

127

123

122

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

In 2015, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were 122 million 
CO2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2014 performance, our 2015 
emissions decreased by approximately 1 million CO2-equivalent metric tons.

1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in API’s Compendium of  
  Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas 
  Industry and IPIECA’s Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse   
  Gas Emissions.

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 2014 2015

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Through our commitment to energy efficiency, application of structured 
processes and continued use of a bottom-up approach, we continue to yield 
industry-leading results. For example, normalized greenhouse gas emissions 
from our Downstream business totaled 18.9 metric tons per 100 metric tons 
of throughput or production in 2015. This represents an improvement of 
13 percent compared with our 2006 performance.

2.3

4.5

6.9

9.1

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

11.8

13.6

15.5

17.9

19.7

20.5

Energy efficiency and cogeneration

Flare/vent reduction

In 2015, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were 
20.5 million metric tons, cumulative since 2006. This represents an additional 
reduction of 0.8 million metric tons compared with our 2014 performance.

2Cumulative since 2006.

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

35

Emissions reduction

>$3.8 Billion

>$400 Million

invested since 2000 at 
our Upstream facilities 
around the world on 
emission reduction efforts, 
including energy efficiency 
and flare mitigation

invested over the past  
15 years at our refining 
facilities around the world  
to reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions

>$2 Billion

in support of Upstream and Downstream cogeneration 
facilities since 2001 to more efficiently produce electricity 
and reduce greenhouse gas emissions

>$200 Million

in capital expenditures at global Chemical facilities since 
2004 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions

Energy efficiency
In 2015, energy used in our operations totaled 1.7 billion 
gigajoules. Energy consumed in our operations generates 
more than 80 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions 
and is one of our largest operating costs. As such, we have 
focused on energy efficiency for several decades. Since 2000, 
we have used our Global Energy Management System in the 
Downstream and Chemical businesses, and our Production 
Operations Energy Management System in our Upstream 
businesses to identify and act on energy savings opportunities.

Through our commitment to energy efficiency, application 
of structured processes and continued use of a bottom-up 
approach, we continue to yield industry-leading results. 
For example, in the 2010, 2012 and 2014 Refining Industry 
Surveys,3 ExxonMobil’s global refining operations achieved 
first quartile energy efficiency performance. 

Flaring
In 2015, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, 
Downstream and Chemical operations totaled 5.3 million 
metric tons. This represents an increase of 0.8 million metric 
tons compared with our 2014 performance.

The increase in flaring in 2015 was primarily due to operations 
in Angola, where a third-party-operated liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) plant was not operating. These increases were partially 
offset by flaring reductions resulting from the completion of 
commissioning work at our Papua New Guinea LNG plant 
and operational improvements at the Usan production field 
in Nigeria.

ExxonMobil is a charter member of the Global Gas Flaring 
Reduction Partnership. In addition, we put in place our own 
parameters, the Upstream Flaring and Venting Reduction 
Environmental Standard for Projects, in 2005. Accordingly, our 
goal is to responsibly avoid routine flaring in new Upstream 
projects and reduce “legacy” flaring in our existing operations. 

Hydrocarbon flaring

Millions of metric tons

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

8.2

8.0

5.7

4.4

4.1

3.6

3.6

3.7

4.5

5.3

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

In 2015, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, Downstream and 
Chemical operations totaled 5.3 million metric tons. This represents an 
increase of 0.8 million metric tons compared with our 2014 performance.

For example, our joint venture operations in Qatar have 
recently begun using a jetty boil-off gas (JBOG) recovery 
facility to recover the natural gas that was previously flared 
during LNG vessel loading at the marine berths located at the 
Ras Laffan Port. Approximately 1 percent of the LNG loaded 
onto the ships evaporates due to the difference in temperature 
between the LNG and the ship tank. The JBOG recovery 
facility collects the boil-off gas and returns it to the LNG plants 
to be used as fuel or converted back into LNG. During one 
year of operation, the JBOG facility has recovered more than 
500,000 metric tons of gas and reduced LNG vessel loading-
related flaring by around 90 percent.

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

3The Solomon Survey provides a global benchmarking assessment 
of the refining industry and is conducted every two years.

36

 
Venting and fugitive emissions
Our venting and fugitive emissions in 2015 totaled 6 million 
CO2-equivalent metric tons, which is essentially flat relative to 
our 2014 performance. While venting and fugitive emissions, 
most of which are methane, represent approximately 
5 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions, we 
recognize the importance of reducing these emissions. We 
continue to look for cost-effective ways to reduce methane 
and other hydrocarbon emissions in our operations, such as 
replacing high-bleed pneumatic devices with lower-emission 
technology and conducting green well completions in targeted  
Upstream operations. For more information on how XTO 
Energy manages methane emissions, see the adjacent 
Up Close.

Cogeneration
Cogeneration technology captures heat generated from 
the production of electricity for use in production, refining 
and chemical processing operations. Due to its inherent 
energy efficiency, the use of cogeneration leads to reduced 
greenhouse gas emissions. Our cogeneration facilities alone 
enable the avoidance of approximately 6 million metric tons 
per year of greenhouse gas emissions.

We have interests in approximately 5,500 megawatts of 
cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations at 
more than 30 locations around the world. This capacity is 
equivalent to the annual energy needed to power 2.5 million 
U.S. homes. Over the past decade, we have added more than 
1,000 megawatts of cogeneration capacity and continue to 
develop additional investment opportunities.

For example, ExxonMobil began the construction of a  
new 84-megawatt cogeneration facility at our Singapore 
refinery’s Jurong site. When this facility is completed in  
2017, ExxonMobil will have more than 440 megawatts  
of cogeneration capacity in Singapore, enabling our  
integrated refining and petrochemical complex to meet  
all its power needs.

Paula Byrum inspects equipment at our XTO Energy operations site near Herbert Springs, Arkansas.

Up Close:
Mitigating methane emissions 
at XTO Energy

XTO Energy manages methane emissions as a matter 
of safety and environmental responsibility. Responsible 
methane containment practices are applied during drilling, 
completion and production operations to minimize methane 
emissions. We manage emissions through a mix of voluntary 
and regulatory actions, such as implementing leak detection 
and repair programs, reducing oil and gas completion emis-
sions and targeting replacement of high-bleed pneumatics 
with lower-emitting devices.

After drilling and completion of a new well, our workers 
prepare the production equipment for decades of operation. 
A key part of these preparations is to ensure that the natural 
gas product is contained by the production equipment. We 
utilize optical gas imaging cameras to locate equipment leaks 
that would otherwise be invisible, which allows us to detect 
leaks and make repairs. This attention to detail is important to 
promote safety and environmental performance.  

There is a growing interest within the scientific and policy 
communities on human-related methane emissions. In 
the United States, we are working with federal and state 
governments and within industry to ensure that regulations 
aimed at reducing emissions of methane and volatile organic 
compounds sufficiently support long-term operations, 
achieve emission reduction objectives and provide flexibility 
for technology.

We continue to seek greater understanding of the magnitude 
and characteristics of oil and gas industry-related methane 
emissions. XTO Energy participated in studies conducted 
by the University of Texas and Environmental Defense Fund 
which quantified the methane leakage rate in the United States 
from Upstream gas production activities at 0.4 percent of the 
total gas produced. The results of this study helped validate 
Environmental Protection Agency estimates. We are active in 
ongoing methane research including participating in a methane 
measurement reconciliation study with the Department of 
Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory to close the 
knowledge gap between methane measured at ground sources 
and methane measured from the air. We are also working with 
Stanford University on its new Natural Gas Initiative, which will 
focus on methane measurement and monitoring technologies.

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

37

Energy-related CO2 emissions

Billion metric tons

40

30

20

10

0

Rest of world

Key growth

India

China

OECD324

ExxonMobil’s long-range annual forecast, The Outlook 
for Energy, examines energy supply and demand trends 
for approximately 100 countries, 15 demand sectors and 
20 different energy types. The Outlook forms the foundation 
for the company’s business strategies and helps guide our 
investment decisions. In response to projected increases 
in global fuel and electricity demand, our 2016 Outlook 
estimates that global energy-related CO2 emissions will peak 
around 2030 and then begin to decline. A host of trends 
contribute to this downturn — including slowing population 
growth, maturing economies and a shift to cleaner fuels like 
natural gas and renewables — some voluntary and some the 
result of policy.

ExxonMobil addresses the potential for future climate change 
policy, including the potential for restrictions on emissions, by 
estimating a proxy cost of carbon. This cost, which in some 
geographies may approach $80 per ton by 2040, has been 
included in our Outlook for several years. This approach seeks 
to reflect potential policies governments may employ related 
to the exploration, development, production, transportation 
or use of carbon-based fuels. We believe our view on the 

1990                                   2015                                 2040

4The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Refer to the 
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development website (oecd.org) 
  for a listing of its members.

potential for future policy action is realistic and by no means 
represents a “business-as-usual” case. We require all of our 
business lines to include, where appropriate, an estimate of 
greenhouse gas-related emissions costs in their economics 
when seeking funding for capital investments. 

We evaluate potential investments and projects using a 
wide range of economic conditions and commodity prices. 
We apply prudent and substantial margins in our planning 
assumptions to help ensure competitive returns over a wide 
range of market conditions. We also financially stress test our 
investment opportunities, which provides an added margin 
against uncertainties, such as those related to technology 
development, costs, geopolitics, availability of required 
materials, services and labor. Stress testing further enables 
us to consider a wide range of market environments in our 
planning and investment process.

The Kizomba B platform located offshore Angola. 

Up Close:
Managing the business risks of 
climate change

By 2040, the world’s population is projected to reach 
9 billion — up from about 7.2 billion today — and global 
GDP will have more than doubled. As a result, we see global 
energy demand rising by about 25 percent from 2014 to 
2040. In order to meet this demand, we believe all economic 
energy sources, including our existing hydrocarbon reserves, 
will be needed. We also believe that the transition of the 
global energy system to lower-emissions sources will take 
many decades due to its enormous scale, capital intensity 
and complexity. As such, we believe that none of our proven 
hydrocarbon reserves are, or will become, stranded.

Energy and carbon — managing the risks

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

38

Developing solutions that 
reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions for customers

Over the next few decades, population and income 
growth — and an unprecedented expansion of the global 
middle class — are expected to create new demands 
for energy. Meeting these demands will not just require 
more energy, but will also require energy to be used more 
efficiently across all sectors.

While ExxonMobil strives to improve efficiency throughout  
our own operations, we are also delivering solutions that 
enable our customers to reduce their own emissions and 
improve their own energy efficiency as well as increase 
reliability, performance and longevity of the associated 
products. These solutions can be characterized as:

•  Expanding the supply of cleaner-burning natural  
gas to reduce emissions in power generation;

•  Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and  

lubricants; and

•  Creating innovative chemical materials that can  
be applied in a range of consumer products.

Cleaner-burning natural gas
One of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions is through the use of natural gas in 
power generation. Natural gas is a flexible, abundant and low- 
emissions fuel that is available across the globe. On a life cycle 
basis, from extraction through electricity consumption, using 
natural gas emits up to 60 percent fewer greenhouse gas 
emissions than coal. It is also the ideal partner for intermittent 
renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind, as it can 
provide reliable power when these renewable sources are not 
available. As the world moves toward a lower greenhouse 
gas emissions-intensive energy mix over the coming decades, 
natural gas will be one of the most important fuels to enable 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. 

XTO Energy operations in the Marcellus Shale region of eastern United States.

In 2015, the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas released a 
technical study that compares the differences between life 
cycle greenhouse gas emissions from power generation fueled 
by U.S.-exported LNG versus that of coal in Germany, Japan, 
South Korea, China and India. The study analyzed emissions 
during each stage of the LNG life cycle process — from 
wellhead to power generation — and found that life cycle 
greenhouse gas emissions from coal were about twice as high 
as emissions from U.S.-produced LNG in these markets, which 
demonstrates the long-term potential benefits of LNG use in 
these markets.

global resource. By converting natural gas into LNG, it can 
be delivered via tanker from distant production areas to 
intended markets. Given its flexibility, environmental benefits 
and large resource base, LNG is a natural choice to help meet 
the world’s growing energy needs. ExxonMobil’s experience 
spans across the entire LNG value chain, including Upstream 
development, pipelines, liquefaction plants, shipping and 
regasification terminals. Our ability to successfully link these 
complex elements distinguishes us from our competitors  
and enables us to provide a reliable gas supply to buyers  
and end users.

LNG and coal life cycle assessment  
of greenhouse gas emissions

Since our merger with XTO Energy in 2010, ExxonMobil 
has become one of the largest natural gas producers in the 
world. Coupled with our leadership in the development and 
production of LNG, ExxonMobil is well-positioned to meet 
growing demand for this cleaner-burning energy source.

Advances in technology have made it economically viable 
to ship natural gas all over the world, making it a truly 

Premium fuels and lubricants 
ExxonMobil produces fuels and lubricants that deliver 
higher vehicle efficiency and lower emissions. In addition, 
we continue working on research and development of 
new fuels and lubricants. Our extensive family of high-
performance lubricants includes synthetic lubricants that 
have sustainable customer benefits, such as longer drain 
intervals than conventional mineral oils, meaning they 
can be replaced with less frequency, therefore reducing 
the volume of used oil for disposal or recycle. In addition, 
extending lubrication service intervals increases efficiency 

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

39

and lowers maintenance costs while reducing potential 
risks from worker and machine interactions. There are 
also specific application advantages for these products, 
including in wind turbine applications where machinery is 
several hundreds of feet in the air and exposed to weather. 
Mobil lubricants are used in more than 40,000 wind 
turbines worldwide.

that are used by automotive manufacturers to reduce vehicle 
weight and deliver greater efficiency for drivers. We have 
also developed advanced tire technologies that help maintain 
optimal tire pressure, improve rolling resistance and aid fuel 
efficiency, as around 25 percent of vehicle tires in the United 
States are underinflated. By addressing this issue, drivers could 
collectively save up to 1 billion gallons of gasoline per year. 

Innovative chemical materials
Materials developed by ExxonMobil provide manufacturers 
with quantifiable benefits in a multitude of consumer appli-
cations. These materials include resilient, lightweight plastics 

Additionally, our next-generation plastic packaging reduces 
total product weight and allows more products per shipment, 
fewer trucks on the road, less gasoline and energy used, fewer 
greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be 

reused, recovered or recycled. ExxonMobil plastic products 
also contribute to safety within the food industry. Plastic pack-
aging is lightweight, durable and flexible, which makes it ideal 
for preserving food. According to the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations, one-third of the food  
produced in the world goes to waste each year. Plastic pack-
aging can help reduce spoilage, increase access to food and 
improve food safety for consumers around the world.

Solutions in the automotive industry

Halobutyl and EPDM rubbers are used to make automotive products, such as tire innerliners, window and door seals, fan belts 
and radiator hoses.

Under hood

Chassis

Sealing
systems

Exterior

Electrical

Fuel systems

Interior

Tires

Hanna Jokinen, an ExxonMobil lab chemist, studies the 
characteristics of a lubricant sample.

Thermoplastic vulcanizates

Synthetic rubber (EPDM)

Plasticizer

Polyethylene

Adhesives

Ethylene glycol

Polypropylene

Synthetic fluids and lubricant basestocks

Synthetic rubber (butyl)

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

40

Up Close:
Engineering resiliency  
into our operations

ExxonMobil operates facilities in a wide range of challenging 
physical environments across the globe, and has done so 
for many decades. Our extensive design, construction and 
operating experience provides us great familiarity with the 
risks associated with different physical environments. The 
company is aware of the risks posed by extreme weather 
events and recognizes the risks that climate change could 
potentially introduce for facilities exposed to changes in 
extreme weather events over the life of an investment.

After construction of a facility, we monitor and manage 
ongoing facility integrity, for example through periodic 
checks on key aspects of the structures. In addition, we 
regularly participate with major engineering societies and 
industry groups to assess and update engineering standards 
to manage the risks of extreme weather.

Once facilities are in operation, the risks of extreme weather 
are also addressed by disaster preparedness and response 
and business continuity planning. Detailed, well-practiced and 
continuously improved emergency response plans tailored to 
each facility help ExxonMobil prepare for extreme weather 
events. Regular emergency drills are practiced in partnership 
with appropriate government agencies to help ensure 
readiness and minimize the impacts of such events.

When considering weather-related risks, we evaluate the 
type and location of our current and planned facilities. As an 
example, offshore facilities could be impacted by changes 
in wave and wind intensity as well as by ice flow patterns, 
while onshore facilities could be vulnerable to sea level 
rise and changes in storm surge. In the Arctic, long-term 
changes in ice and permafrost could impact the design of 
structural foundations.

While most scientists agree climate change could pose 
risks related to extreme weather, sea level rise, temperature 
extremes and precipitation changes, the limited scientific 
understanding of the likelihood, magnitude, frequency and 
geographic distribution of these events poses a challenge in 
facility planning. ExxonMobil’s comprehensive approach and 
established systems enable us to manage a wide variety of 
possible outcomes over the coming decades.

Our facilities are designed, constructed and operated to 
withstand a variety of extreme climatic and other conditions, 
with safety factors built in to cover a number of engineering 
uncertainties, including those associated with wave, wind and 
current intensity, marine ice flow patterns, permafrost stability, 
storm surge magnitude, temperature extremes, extreme rain-
fall events and earthquakes. Our consideration of changing 
weather conditions and inclusion of safety factors in design 
cover the engineering uncertainties that climate change and 
other events may potentially introduce.

ExxonMobil’s Arkutun-Dagi topside offshore Sakhalin Island, Russia.

Managing climate change risks
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

41

 
 
 
Case 
Study

ExxonMobil’s 
research and 
development 
initiatives

Upstream researchers in our hydrocarbon 
systems analytical geochemistry laboratory 
perform gas chromatography and mass 
spectrometry measurements on hydro- 
carbon samples. We seek to develop break-
through technologies that can benefit our 
business and have a positive impact  
on society.

We believe human ingenuity and innovation are critical to 
supplying the fuels and products that consumers need in a 
manner that is safe for our employees, communities and the 
environment. To support this, ExxonMobil is founded on a 
culture of science and technology. We employ more than 
2,200 Ph.D. scientists and 5,000 employees at our research 
and technology divisions around the world.  

Each year, we invest around $1 billion on corporate research 
and development efforts. Our goal is to develop breakthrough 
technologies that can benefit our business and have a positive 
impact on society and the environment.

We are also collaborating with leading universities to research 
and discover next-generation energy solutions. We are proud 

42

ExxonMobil employees Steve Derenthal and Michael Deal visit the Houston-based center that houses ExxonMobil’s high-performance computing system.

to say that as a result of these and other such research and 
development initiatives, ExxonMobil was named one of the 
“Top Global 100 Innovators” by Thomson Reuters in 2015 for 
our leadership performance in overall patent volume, patent-
grant success rates, global reach and invention influence. 

Our scientists and engineers are presently working to develop 
technologies designed to produce energy in an increasingly 
safe, economical and environmentally responsible manner. 
Two examples are full wavefield inversion and advanced drilling 
technologies, both of which are enabled by high-performance 
computing. A supercomputer is a high-performance computer 
that executes at or near the current maximum operational 
rate for computers. Supercomputers play an important role 
in the field of computational science and are used in various 
fields, including quantum mechanics, climate research and 
oil and gas exploration. ExxonMobil uses high-performance 

computing to find and develop the most challenging resource 
opportunities in the world. 

With advanced algorithms and high-performance computing, 
we are able to process extremely large volumes of data from 
multiple sources to identify key trends and relationships to 
determine which decisions will yield the most positive out-
come. By leveraging our computational sciences expertise to 
combine software, engineering and geoscience skills, we are 
able to deliver the advanced technical capabilities needed to 
execute technical computations on an unprecedented scale to 
analyze models, perform simulations and assess opportunities. 

Full wavefield inversion
Full wavefield inversion (FWI), a key component of ExxonMobil’s 
EMprise seismic capability, uses supercomputing technology 
to provide geoscientists unparalleled insights into the 

physical characteristics of rocks and geologic structures in 
the subsurface. In the past, the oil and gas industry could 
only utilize a portion of the sound wave data in 3-D seismic 
processing technology because processing techniques could 
not handle the complexity and quantity of data.

FWI enables us to better leverage data from a seismic survey 
to produce high-definition images of the subsurface that could 
make development and production more efficient and less 
costly. In doing so, we can help make oil and gas resources 
easier to identify and target in exploration, development and 
production programs, which ultimately helps us reduce our 
impact on the environment. Specifically, FWI enables us to 
evaluate data with more certainty — and in a time frame that is 
practical for business applications — whether or not the rock 
that is surveyed has potential to contain hydrocarbons.

Full wavefield inversion technology animation

ExxonMobil’s research and development initiatives
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

43

 
new energy sources and more efficient uses of conventional 
energy resources. Since launching the collaboration with MIT, 
the joint research program has made inroads into several 
areas, including bio-inspired catalysts for the petrochemical 
industry and computational modeling to better understand 
the properties of iron and iron-based alloys used in pipelines. 
The program has also enabled ExxonMobil to expand research 
efforts to emerging areas like photovoltaic and nuclear power, 
as well as enhance our understanding of energy options and 
the interactions between them. 

In 2015, ExxonMobil entered a five-year partnership with 
E-ffiliates, a program administered by Princeton University, to 
pursue transformational innovations in the fields of energy 
and environment. E-ffiliates has already started working with 
research groups across the university, including selected 
graduate students and post-doctoral researchers. The 
partnership will help accelerate research by creating an 
umbrella framework that makes it easy for any business unit of 
Exxon Mobil Corporation to undertake research projects with 
any department or lab at Princeton.

“Meeting the world’s energy needs in a sustainable way is 
a formidable challenge. Developing economically viable 
solutions requires the collaborative efforts of industry, gov-
ernment and academia. We are delighted that ExxonMobil 
is joining E-ffiliates, broadening the vibrant collaboration 
between Princeton and leading industry partners in the 
energy and environmental sectors.”

Pablo Debenedetti 
Dean of research, Princeton University 

Researchers at our Upstream Research Company analyze seismic data that was imaged using full wavefield inversion.

Advanced drilling
Advances in technologies used for well drilling and completion 
have enabled the energy industry to reach new sources of 
oil and natural gas to meet rising demand around the world. 
Recent innovations in advanced drilling technology, such as 
ExxonMobil’s proprietary Vybs software, are helping bring 
about new efficiencies and environmental benefits.

Vybs is the latest breakthrough technology used to overcome 
factors that limit drilling efficiency. In an effort to improve 
efficiency, Vybs uses sophisticated algorithms to understand 
and harness the vibrations at the end of a drill string. Vybs 
uses kinetic energy from the drill string, thus reducing the 
amount of energy needed from the rig to penetrate the 
subsurface. Improving drilling efficiency means wells can be 
drilled faster, which reduces costs and the amount of time 
spent with a drill rig on location.  

In addition to helping reduce the costs associated with drilling, 
this technology also helps reduce the environmental impact 
of energy production and safeguard our employees and 
contractors by allowing more oil and gas to be produced with 
fewer wells and by reducing our well pad size.

Partnerships with leading universities 
ExxonMobil is partnering with approximately 80 universities 
around the world to explore next-generation energy 
technologies. We recently began collaborations with Princeton 
University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as 
part of our commitment to finding meaningful and scalable 
solutions to meet global energy demand. 

In October 2014, ExxonMobil became a founding member 
of the MIT Energy Initiative, a unique collaboration that aims 
to advance and explore the future of energy by focusing on 

ExxonMobil’s research and development initiatives
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

44

Environmental 
performance

XTO Energy drilling operations in Belmont 
County, Ohio. ExxonMobil employs structured 
management processes across an asset’s 
life cycle to ensure we effectively identify and 
understand the actual and potential impacts of 
our activities.

OIMS defines a set of expectations that align our 
environmental objectives with our business activities and 
provides a framework to identify and manage environmental 
risks. For additional information on how OIMS guides 
ExxonMobil’s approach to environmental management,  
see page 15.

ExxonMobil’s projects and operations are set in a diverse 
range of environments that present a variety of environmental, 
social and health risks and opportunities. We employ struc-
tured management processes across an asset’s life cycle to 
ensure we effectively identify and understand the actual and 
potential impacts of our activities. 

Our Environmental Aspects Assessment (EAA) process 
allows us to systematically identify, assess, manage and 
monitor environmental and social risks throughout the life 
cycle of our assets. Environmental Business Planning is 
undertaken to plan, oversee and steward environmental 
performance. New developments are typically subject 
to an Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Impact 
Assessment (ESHIA) process. Environmental, Socioeconomic 
and Health Management Plans (ESHMP) are then prepared 
to “operationalize” ESHIAs by defining the set of measures 
that will be employed during development and operations 
to avoid environmental and social risks, reduce them to 
acceptable levels or remedy the impact. 

We integrate stakeholder feedback, scientific understanding and 
other due diligence into these processes to ensure we operate 
in a safe, respectful and environmentally protective manner. 
ExxonMobil has undertaken or participated in ESHIAs or EAAs 
for a wide variety of projects and activities around the world, 
including projects ranging from single-well exploration drilling 
programs to new technology evaluation pilots and large devel-
opment mega-projects.

Biodiversity and  
ecosystem services

As part of the expectations of Protect Tomorrow. Today., 
ExxonMobil strives to be a leader in safeguarding the ability of 
the environment to provide ecosystem services — the direct 
and indirect benefits people obtain from the environment, 
such as food, water, shelter, clean air and cultural identity. Our 
approach to managing biodiversity and ecosystem services 
recognizes factors such as the rarity of individual species, their 
roles in different ecosystems and habitats, their vulnerabilities 
and their cultural significance. For our major projects, 
biodiversity and ecosystem services are taken into account 
during our environmental risk management processes.

Environmental Aspects Guide

ExxonMobil is committed to operating in an environmentally 
responsible manner while providing the energy needed to 
power the world’s progress. ExxonMobil’s Corporate Envi-
ronment Policy and Protect Tomorrow. Today. expectations 
serve as the foundation of our efforts, which are guided by a 
scientific understanding of the environmental impact of our 
operations as well as the social and economic needs of the 
communities in which we operate.

Environmental  
management 

Protect Tomorrow. Today. is a set of corporate-wide environ-
mental performance expectations. These expectations build 
upon the existing Corporate Environment Policy, which is 
incorporated in ExxonMobil’s Standards of Business Conduct, 
and based on the following principles:

•  Delivery of superior environmental performance,  

leading to a competitive advantage;

•  Driving environmental incidents with real impact to zero, 

through a process of continuous improvement; and

•  Achieving industry leadership in focus areas valuable  

to the business.

Standards of Business Conduct

For more than 10 years, Protect Tomorrow. Today. has guided 
us toward our goal of superior environmental performance. 
Our employees demonstrate their dedication to this goal 
every day by helping the organization achieve environmental 
leadership, caring about the communities where we work and 
sharing our lessons learned with industry and our stakeholders 
for the benefit of all. 

As we manage our operations, we must understand the impact 
of our business on the environment, adhere to a consistent 
risk management approach and maintain a relentless focus on 
operational excellence. Our Operations Integrity Management 
System (OIMS) drives our approach  
to environmental management.  

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

46

Western gray whale off the coast of Sakhalin Island, Russia. 

Up Close:
Protecting the biodiversity  
of Bioko Island

Bioko Island, located 20 miles off the Gulf of Guinea coast in 
West Africa, is one of the most biologically diverse places on 
earth, with critical habitat for seven species of endangered 
monkeys and four species of nesting sea turtles. For nearly 
20 years, the ExxonMobil Foundation has supported the Bioko 
Island Biodiversity Protection Program (BBPP) in Equatorial 
Guinea, in association with Drexel University and the National 
University of Equatorial Guinea, to conserve the island’s biodi-
versity through educational and research programs as well as  
conservation activities.

Since 2008, the ExxonMobil Foundation has provided core 
funding for the Moka Wildlife Center, the country’s first and 
only biological field station. Here, BBPP hosts educational 
programs designed to illustrate the value of biodiversity and  
to foster an environmental ethic in local children. To build 
upon this initiative, we sponsored the construction of an  
interpretative nature trail in 2015.

The trail runs adjacent to the BBPP Moka Wildlife Center and 
allows visitors to observe the local fauna and flora up close. The 
trail is also marked with signs that display various facts about the 
biodiversity in the area. In addition to providing information on the 
various plants and animals, the signs explain their use or impor-
tance to the local community. Local children in Moka and other 
nearby villages can visit the center, walk the trail and learn more 
about the importance of preserving the biodiversity of Bioko Island.

“The ExxonMobil-BBPP relationship is an internationally 
recognized model of successful corporate, government 
and international education cooperative activities. This 
two-decade relationship built a solid foundation for saving 
the biodiversity of Bioko Island, for providing sustainable 
livelihoods for Equatoguineans who depend on the nation’s 
rich natural resources for survival and for improving the 
international profile of Equatorial Guinea.”

Dr. Mary Katherine Gonder 
Director, Bioko Biodiversity Protection Program

Protecting the biodiversity in Equatorial Guinea 

Local children reading a book series developed by BBPP learn about the 
importance of biodiversity in their lives and for their nation.

Protecting biodiversity 
We plan our activities based on a scientific understanding 
of the biodiversity in our areas of operation. As part of our 
commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible 
manner, we conduct research and support initiatives to help 
improve biodiversity management. In 2015, we contributed 
approximately $4 million to organizations focused on  
biodiversity protection and land conservation. 

For many years, we have sponsored research efforts to study 
the effects of sound on marine mammals to avoid potentially 
adverse impacts of our operations. In 2015, Exxon Neftegas 
Limited, an ExxonMobil subsidiary in Russia, conducted a 
seismic program covering all three Sakhalin-1 offshore license 
areas. Throughout the design and implementation of the 
program, being protective of the western gray whale — a 
species classified as critically endangered by the International 
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) — was very 
important. Our detailed monitoring and mitigation strategy 

was based on 17 years of research on these animals and their 
habitat and the best practices developed and enhanced during 
previous seismic operations, as well as knowledge of the 
timing and behaviors of whales in the area. 

We also support research aimed at improving our management 
of biodiversity. For example, ExxonMobil’s Upstream Research 
Company is investigating the application of environmental 
genomics in biodiversity assessment and monitoring. Advances 
in DNA technologies have enabled the rapid characterization 
of the biodiversity of environmental samples. This has the 
potential to improve our ability to manage environmental risks 
by significantly reducing the time required for environmental 
surveys and analyses compared with conventional methods. 

Working in protected areas 
ExxonMobil manages elevated biodiversity or species risks 
by examining the environmental context of the areas where 
we operate and ensuring adequate protective measures are 

developed and implemented. We periodically screen the 
locations of our major operating facilities against databases of 
the IUCN and World Protected Areas. In 2015, an estimated 
25 percent of our major operating facilities were within 
5 kilometers of designated environmentally sensitive areas. 
These data inform our emergency response contingency plans 
and environmental impact surveys by helping prioritize areas 
needing special protection. 

We continue to collaborate with the Wildlife Habitat Council 
(WHC) to develop educational and outreach programs 
through the Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) program. 
Currently, we have five CLL programs certified at or near our 
facilities, including the Billings (Montana) refinery, the Baton 
Rouge (Louisiana) complex, our Clinton (New Jersey) research 
facility, the Fife (United Kingdom) ethylene plant and Lentol 
Garden in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, New York. These programs 
help us promote environmental awareness, biodiversity and 
science initiatives in our workforce and local communities.  

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

47

In 2010, the Cold Lake operations of our Canadian affiliate, 
Imperial Oil, became the first oil and gas operator in Canada 
to be certified by the WHC. This site was re-certified 
in 2015, demonstrating our continued commitment to 
conservation excellence.

By the end of 2015, we actively managed approximately 
7,100 acres of land for the benefit of wildlife, which includes 
assessing habitats, developing plans to enhance or sustain 
wildlife, implementing the plans and monitoring the status 
at 16 of our sites through 18 certified programs. Over the 
past year, there has been a reduction in the number of wildlife 
habitat programs and acreage certified through WHC. This 
change reflects the consolidation of sites to our Houston 
campus and the sale or disposition of previously owned sites. 
It is our hope that the new owners will continue management 
of the properties for wildlife habitat valuable to those commu-
nities. During the site consolidation process, our employees 
turned their efforts toward certification of the Houston 
campus property, achieved in 2014, and continue to seek 
opportunities at other locations for enhancing wildlife habitat 
and providing environmental education to local communities.

Rocky Mountain College wildlife biology students and members of the 
Billings Senior High School STEM Society engage in habitat research at 
ExxonMobil’s Billings refinery’s wildlife habitat area in Montana.

One of the recent highlights related to our long-term 
association with WHC is at our Billings refinery. The 110-acre 
WHC-certified wildlife habitat at our Billings refinery has served 
as a learning lab since 2002 for Rocky Mountain College and, 
starting in 2015, Billings Senior High School. The refinery’s 
conservation efforts have earned international recognition 
by the WHC and the habitat program has received WHC 
certification for a decade. In 2015, the site achieved WHC 
CLL certification, allowing the refinery to more fully use the 
habitat area for education purposes, especially field research. 
The students from Rocky Mountain College and Billings Senior 
High School are making good use of the opportunity and have 
recently collaborated to install nets for a fishery and turtle 
survey in an effort to enhance their environmental curricula.

Water management 

Water and energy are interrelated. Water is essential for 
providing energy and energy is needed to deliver clean 
water to people. This connection, or nexus, between energy 
and water highlights the importance of these resources for 
society and the environment. As such, we work to prevent 
adverse impacts to water resources from our withdrawals and 
discharges and prudently manage the water we do use.

ExxonMobil develops and implements water management 
strategies, most notably at the local level, that take into 
consideration quality and availability, as well as potential 
trade-offs, such as varied operational efficiencies, increased 
energy use or the consequences of producing more 
concentrated waste streams. For more information about  
how ExxonMobil manages water, visit our website.

ExxonMobil’s approach to water use

Water use 
In 2015, the net freshwater consumption at our operations 
was 300 million cubic meters, representing more than a 
5 percent decline since 2007, in part due to the development 
and implementation of local water management strategies. 
ExxonMobil’s total freshwater consumption includes use by 
refineries and chemical plants, oil and gas production, and 
onshore shale resources development in the United States. 

Global freshwater consumption1

Millions of cubic meters

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

320

350

340

330

330

370

280

270

300

ExxonMobil's global freshwater consumption in 2015 was 300 million cubic 
meters. This represents a 30 million cubic meter increase when compared to our 
2014 global freshwater consumption. Since 2012, we have actively maintained 
our freshwater consumption below our 2011 performance.  

1We report freshwater intensity alongside consumption data in our performance    
  data (pages 90-92). Freshwater intensity is the ratio of net freshwater  
  consumption to the amount of throughput or production. Normalized in this 
  way, we can better understand how efficiently we are using freshwater in our 
 operations. Data collection began in 2007. Includes XTO Energy data beginning 
 in 2011.

We recognize that some of our operations use significant 
amounts of water, and we understand the necessity to engage 
with stakeholders regarding their concerns about the use and 
protection of local water resources. For example, the amount 
of water needed to hydraulically fracture a typical shale gas 
well ranges from 3 million to 4 million gallons. However, it is 
important to put this quantity into perspective. For example, 
the World Resources Institute found that the average golf 
course in the United States uses 4 million gallons of water 
in less than one summer month. In fact, hydraulic fracturing 
operations account for less than 5 percent of our total water 
consumption. For more information on our water consumption, 
see the performance graph above.

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

48

As illustrated on the right, the amount of the freshwater 
needed to produce an identical unit of energy from natural 
gas is less than for a variety of other energy sources, including 
hydroelectric power and ethanol. According to a recent study 
by the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Tech-
nology Laboratory, shale gas production uses about 10 times 
less water than is used for coal production, and 1,000 times 
less water than is used for fuel ethanol or biodiesel production. 
Even so, we continue to look for opportunities to reduce our 
water use. 

ExxonMobil seeks to continuously improve the development 
and implementation of water management strategies. Part 
of this effort involves improving our understanding of not 
only the quantity of our water consumption, but also when 
and where this consumption occurs. In 2015, ExxonMobil 
collaborated with ETH Zurich, one of the leading international 
universities for technology and the natural sciences, to 
co-author a peer-reviewed paper on improving the capability 
to assess water stress indices. The purpose of the paper was 
to explain the impacts of freshwater consumption in life cycle 
assessments (LCA) of comparative energy sources. In particular, 
the paper highlights the importance of regional and seasonal 
variations when considering water stress as part of an LCA. 

American Chemical Society water stress index paper 

Based on our analysis using the latest version of the oil and 
gas industry global water tool, almost 40 percent of our 
major operating sites are located in areas identified with the 
potential for water stress or scarcity. Where appropriate, we 
conduct a detailed local analysis of specific water use-related 
risks and develop site-specific management strategies such as 
the deployment of water conservation technologies, the use 
of alternative freshwater sources, recycling of municipal and 
industrial wastewater and harvesting of rainwater.

For example, conventional methods of dust suppression can 
require large amounts of freshwater to maintain safe working 
conditions. By applying a biodegradable dust-control product 
to the roads at our oil sands operations in Kearl, Canada, we 
were able to significantly reduce the amount of water required 
to manage road dust. In 2015 alone, the Kearl oil sands 
operations saved an estimated 36 million gallons of water. 

How much water is needed to produce one quart of oil-equivalent energy?2

Freshwater intensity is the total amount of freshwater needed to produce an identical unit of energy for a variety of energy 
sources and transportation fuels.

Natural gas
One oil-equivalent quart of natural gas requires anywhere 
from a tablespoon to a cup of water. Unconventional or 
“fracked” natural gas is at the higher end of the range.

Petroleum
One quart of petroleum requires from one to two-and-a-half 
quarts of water. (Extraction itself requires less than a cup — 
most of the water goes toward cooling in the refinery.)

x 18

Extracted coal
One oil-equivalent quart of extracted coal requires less 
than two quarts of water.

Electric power from coal
One oil-equivalent quart of electric power from coal 
requires anywhere from 11 to 18 quarts of water for cooling. 
(Gas-fired turbines also require cooling water, but are a bit 
more efficient and require less water than coal-fired plants.)

x 1,176

Ethanol
One oil-equivalent quart of ethanol requires from six 
quarts to as much as 1,176 quarts of water (depending 
on irrigation). This is typical of most biofuels.

x 5,040

Hydroelectric power
One oil-equivalent quart of hydroelectric power requires 
from 15 quarts to as much as 5,040 quarts of water because 
of evaporation and subsurface seepage from reservoirs.

=

=

=

=

or

or
=

or
or

or
or
or

or
or

or
or

or

One quart of oil

Ten cyclists in a 
10-hour race

A team of 13 horses
working one hour

Heating up an 80-gallon 
water heater to 
shower temperature

2Adapted from the freshwater intensity page at exxonmobil.com.

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

49

101380101380101380101380101380“State agencies are on the forefront of oil and gas 
regulation and are diligently working to address the 
safety and environmental issues surrounding modern 
energy development. Knowing how to best mitigate 
and manage the risk of induced seismic events requires 
multidisciplinary scientific understanding that often reaches 
beyond the domain expertise of any individual state agency 
or regulatory body. ExxonMobil’s technical leadership 
alongside the contributions of academia, environmental 
stakeholders and regulators provides a valuable 
contribution in helping States First develop a guide for 
regulators that is grounded in the best available science.”

Mike Paque 
Executive director, 
Groundwater Protection Council

Potential injection-induced seismicity associated with 
oil and gas development: A primer on technical and 
regulatory considerations informing risk management 
and mitigation

Wastewater management 
ExxonMobil responsibly manages process wastewater and 
produced water from our operations, and we proactively look 
for opportunities to address any potential water quality issues. 
For our Upstream projects, our Water Management Standard 
outlines minimum expected environmental performance and 
mitigation measures. This Standard establishes the planning 
and design basis for reducing impacts to surface waters, 
groundwaters, estuarine and marine waters as well as to the 
associated habitats and users, from a use or consumption 
viewpoint as well as with regard to discharge quality.

We support risk management and mitigation approaches that 
consider various mitigation methods for the relative risks in 
a given context, including the assessment of factors such as 
fluid volumes, formation character, tectonic setting, operating 
experience and local construction standards. For example, 
at XTO Energy, we follow a disciplined injection well siting 
protocol, which uses available data, including federal, state 
or internal seismic information, to conduct a risk assessment 
prior to siting a disposal well. Some government agencies 
mitigate seismicity risk during development with operational 
“traffic light” systems.

Produced water, a byproduct of upstream oil and gas 
operations, is typically managed onshore by injection into 
deep underground reservoirs. For offshore production 
facilities, produced water is managed by re-injection into 
an associated reservoir or treatment and discharge into the 
marine environment in accordance with applicable regulatory 
requirements. From 2014 to 2015, ExxonMobil conducted 
a series of sampling and modeling initiatives in Australia to 
evaluate how produced water discharges might interact 
with the local marine environment. The results showed the 
amount by which the concentration of discharge constituents 
vary day-to-day and the way discharges mix in the sea 
with the surrounding currents. These factors are critical to 
understanding the overall environmental impacts of the 
discharges. The study will continue in 2016. 

Seismicity 
The topic of induced seismicity has gained more attention 
over the past few years. In some instances, due to unique 
geologic conditions, oil and gas operations may trigger 
seismic activity. Such operations may include reservoir 
depletion, wastewater disposal injection and in rare situations, 
hydraulic fracturing. We recognize the issue of oil and gas 
operations inducing seismicity is a matter of public concern. 
No matter the cause — natural or human induced — local 
communities have concerns about seismic activity in 
their area.

We believe it is important to gain a better understanding of all 
types and sources of seismic activity. By supporting research 
at universities, cooperating with governmental agencies 
and conducting our own research, we are contributing to 
developing a better understanding of seismicity. We believe 
having a science-based risk management approach is an 
essential foundation for evaluating events and avoiding 
adverse effects of seismicity. In addition, ExxonMobil has 
been strengthening our risk management systems related to 
this challenge and proactively sharing our findings with local 
communities, academia and regulators.

In 2015, ExxonMobil provided technical leadership to States 
First — a multi-state initiative aimed at facilitating innovative 
regulatory solutions for oil and natural gas producing 
states — for its induced seismicity working group’s primer on 
potential injection-induced seismicity associated with oil and 
gas development. Specifically, the primer provides guidance 
on evaluating risks associated with induced seismicity from 
wastewater disposal wells and helps regulatory agencies develop 
strategies for managing and mitigating risks. Research findings 
for the primer indicate that risk management, risk mitigation 
and response strategies are most effective when specific local 
geologic conditions and operational situations are considered. 
Accordingly, the primer does not recommend specific policies, 
emphasizing that a one-size fits all regulatory scheme would 
not be flexible enough to account for area-specific risks 
and concerns.

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

50

 
Spill performance

Significant spills to the environment

Spills (not from marine vessels)3

We implement preventive measures to avoid spills and 
continually seek to improve our risk management, operations 
integrity and containment capabilities. As a result of these 
efforts, we had fewer spills in 2015 compared with 2014. 
Over the past five years, we have reduced the number of spills 
greater than 1 barrel by more than 30 percent. 

If a spill does occur, we ensure a rapid, comprehensive 
response. The total volume of hydrocarbons spilled to soil and 
water was 10,800 barrels in 2015, and more than 55 percent 
was recovered at the spill sites. The majority of these spills 
did not affect third parties or the communities that surround 
our assets. In 2012, we started measuring significant spills 
to the environment (SSEs) across the corporation. SSEs are 
a subset of our overall spills, which we define as spills that 
have impacted or have the potential to impact surface water, 
groundwater, sensitive environments or communities. 

We had 11 SSEs in 2015, which represented approximately 
three percent of the total number of spills. Our largest SSE 
occurred when 10 U.S.-Midcontinent production facility tank 
releases occurred during a flooding event related to a tropical 

Claire Madden, ExxonMobil manager of lubricants sales process 
and operations, celebrates at the christening ceremony for the 
Eagle Bay in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus

Number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater 
than 1 barrel

2012

2013

2014

2015

20

18

19

11

In 2012, ExxonMobil began measuring significant spills to the environment 
(SSEs), the number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus. 
In 2015, we had 11 SSEs, more than a 40 percent decrease from 2014. 

storm. Other SSEs that occurred were related to valve and 
flow line failures during normal operations. The findings from 
our SSEs have prompted further preventive work on facility 
integrity and reliability upgrades, as well as addressing human 
factor causal elements. We are increasing focus on learning 
from these spills to prevent their recurrence.

ExxonMobil recognizes the potential risk for spills from 
marine vessels and we take a diligent approach to safe and 
environmentally responsible marine transportation. The 
worldwide marine business of ExxonMobil’s affiliates, which 
involves about 500 vessels in daily service, logged more 
than 21,500 voyages and 47,000 port calls in 2015, safely 
transporting approximately 1.5 billion barrels of crude oil 
and refined products. This year, ExxonMobil’s marine affiliate, 
SeaRiver Maritime Inc., placed the Eagle Bay, the second of its 
two new U.S. crude oil tankers, into service transporting crude 
oil from Alaska’s North Slope. This vessel incorporates the 
latest safety technologies and greatly reduces air emissions, 
which earned it the 2015 Green Ship Award from the Port 
of Long Beach. For additional information on our efforts to 
reduce air emissions in our operations, see page 53. 

In addition to marine transportation, ExxonMobil Pipeline 
Company transports approximately 2.6 million barrels of 
petroleum and chemical feedstocks and products through 
approximately 5,000 miles of active pipelines operated in the 
United States every day. We are committed to pipeline safety 
and carefully maintain and monitor our infrastructure to identify 
and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions 

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

295

253

211

210

242

484

356

330

334

319

Spills to water 

Spills to soil 

In 2015, we had 319 oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater than 
1 barrel (not from marine vessels), the majority of which were spills to soil. This 
number has decreased significantly over the past five years due to our relentless 
approach to operations integrity.

3Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 2011.

onto our rights of way. We patrol our pipeline routes and monitor 
pipeline operations using state-of-the-art systems, alarms and 
other monitoring technologies. For more information on how we 
are managing products transported by rail, see page 22. 

Offshore oil spill response 
As part of ExxonMobil’s commitment to maintaining opera-
tional excellence everywhere we work, we have developed 
specialized offshore spill response capabilities and tactics. 
We have the industry’s only dedicated, in-house oil spill 
response research program, which includes a focus on 
cold water and remote locations, such as the Arctic.

ExxonMobil has participated in and provided technical lead-
ership to several joint industry projects to enhance industry 
offshore spill response capability. These initiatives include the 

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

51

A worker descends an equipment access walkway onboard a Marine Well Containment Company vessel in the Gulf of Mexico.

American Petroleum Institute (API) joint industry task force, 
the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) 
Arctic oil spill response technology joint industry program, an 
IOGP and IPIECA joint industry project and the API oil sands 
technical subcommittee. These initiatives allow us to share 
best practices and learn from our peers. For more information 
about this topic, visit the following websites:

API joint industry task force

Arctic oil spill response technology

IOGP-IPIECA joint industry project

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

Additionally, for the past five years, ExxonMobil has been an 
active member of the Marine Well Containment Company 
(MWCC), an independent not-for-profit company that provides 
well containment equipment and technology in the deepwater 
U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In 2015, we re-entered a pre-existing  
exploratory well for development in the Gulf of Mexico’s Julia 
oil field after receiving a cap-and-flow permit from the Bureau 
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement. This permit was 
awarded based on the enhanced response capability of MWCC 
capture vessels. MWCC added two modular capture vessels 
to its inventory in 2015. These vessels, which ExxonMobil 
took the lead in constructing, are maintained and operated on 
behalf of the MWCC’s 10 member companies.

Marine Well Containment Company

We continually identify and develop advanced technologies 
to manage risks and improve offshore oil spill response. 
For example, we commercialized the use of biodegradable 
surfactants that can be sprayed onto the water surface around 
the perimeter of an oil slick, causing the oil to retract and 
thicken so that it can be burned in a controlled fashion without 
using a fire-resistant boom.

52

Air emissions 

We seek opportunities to reduce the air emissions associated 
with our operations and the products we deliver to increase 
shareholder value and meet regulatory requirements. As a 
result of these efforts, ExxonMobil’s combined emissions of 
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and 
nitrogen oxides (NOx) have decreased more than 45 percent 
over the past 10 years across all of our businesses. 

One example of how we have reduced emissions from our 
Upstream operations involves Balder, one of ExxonMobil’s 
permanent, floating production vessels stationed offshore 
Norway. From 2013 to 2015, the vessel’s four main power 
engines were converted to low-NOx systems. The conversion 
has reduced annual NOx emissions by approximately 
21 percent, equal to 290 metric tons of NOx per year. Another 
example involves our Antwerp refinery in Belgium. In 2015, 
the refinery began construction of a new tail gas cleanup 
(TGCU) system to reduce on-site SO2 emissions by more than 
2,300 metric tons per year. The TGCU is expected to be fully 
operational in 2017.

Balder, one of ExxonMobil’s permanent, floating production vessels, 
stationed in Norway.

Air emissions

Millions of metric tons

0.35

0.30

0.25

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 2014 2015

VOCs

SO2

NOx

In 2015, the combined SO2 , NOx and VOC emissions from our operations 
totaled 0.39 million metric tons, representing a slight decrease from 2014. 

In January 2015, the International Maritime Organization 
reduced the cap on the sulfur content in marine vessel fuels 
from 1.0 to 0.1 percent by mass for all ships operating in 
emission control areas (ECA). This action has reshaped the 
shipping landscape, particularly in Europe and North America, 
spurring new demand for fuels that help marine operators 
comply with the cap. In response, we introduced ExxonMobil 
Premium Heavy Distillate Marine 50, an ECA-compliant 
premium fuel that combines the low sulfur content of lighter 
marine oils with the lower volatility typically associated with 
heavy fuel oils.

“By working collaboratively across the Downstream, 
ExxonMobil developed a wide and exciting array of 
solutions to lead the marine industry into this new era.”

Nancy Carlson 
Vice president, aviation and marine 

Environmental compliance

ExxonMobil complies with applicable host-country 
environmental laws and regulations and applies responsible 
standards where laws and regulations do not exist. Wherever 
reasonable, we strive to go beyond compliance to demonstrate 
leadership in environmental management. One example of this 
is at our Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana. 

ExxonMobil’s Baton Rouge refinery is the third-largest 
refinery in the United States, occupying 2,100 acres along 
the Mississippi River. In 2014, we upgraded the biological 
oxidation (BIOX) wastewater treatment system at the refinery. 
Our investment included an additional $10 million to increase 
denitrification capacity. The new BIOX system became fully 
operational in January 2015 and has successfully cut effluent 
nitrate levels by 50 percent. The system has also helped reduce 
the refinery’s overall reportable releases to the environment, 
including air emissions, water discharges and offsite waste 
transfers, by 30 percent.

“This project is good for the environment and the 
Mississippi River. We’re reducing nitrates and also making 
a small reduction in air emissions. This project will support 
our facility for decades and ensure our leadership in 
environmental stewardship.”

Irving (Junior) Sanders 
Refinery senior water advisor, Baton Rouge 

Our worldwide environmental expenditures in 2015 totaled 
approximately $5.6 billion. This included an estimated 
$1.8 billion in capital expenditures and approximately 
$3.8 billion in operating expenses. In 2015, 53 penalties, 
fines and settlements were paid, accounting for less 
than one-tenth of one percent of total environmental 
expenditures, or about $5.5 million.

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

53

 
Rehabilitation and 
decommissioning 

Effectively decommissioning onshore and offshore assets 
is essential to reducing our overall environmental impact. 
When operations reach the end of their useful life, we work 
to ensure the safe and responsible decommissioning of 
our assets. To do so, we develop decommissioning plans 
that utilize proven and cost-effective methods and consider 
potential risks, costs and benefits.

In 2015, we collaborated with the Land Trust Alliance, a 
national land conservation organization, to create Establishing 
Conservation Easements on Corporate Lands: A Guide for 
Corporations and Land Trusts. This document will serve as 
a reference tool for many corporations, including those in 
the oil and gas industry, when managing land with inherent 
conservation value warranting permanent protection.

Establishing Conservation Easements  
on Corporate Lands: A Guide for Corporations  
and Land Trusts 

Since its creation in 2008, ExxonMobil Environmental Services 
(EMES) — our global functional organization that provides 
guidance and support on the remediation and stewardship 
of surplus sites — has managed more than $5.7 billion of 
remediation work and returned more than 1,800 properties 
to beneficial end uses. In 2015 alone, EMES monitored 
5,700 active sites in more than 30 countries.

Whenever possible, we look for opportunities to repurpose 
former ExxonMobil sites and surplus properties for beneficial 
use. For example, Harris County, Texas, is home to an inland 
waterfowl rookery, which serves as a sheltered breeding spot 
for herons, egrets, spoonbills and other species of coastal 
water birds. To help protect the rookery, we donated more than 
five acres of surplus land located adjacent to the rookery for 

Tricolored heron at the Armand Bayou waterfowl rookery in Harris County, Texas.

stewardship by the Armand Bayou Nature Center. The former 
drill site now serves as a protective buffer to ensure that the 
rookery and its inhabitants are safe from future development.

Rehabilitation 
We continually seek to enhance our reclamation processes 
by integrating site remediation plans into life cycle planning 
for an asset. Before Imperial Oil, an ExxonMobil affiliate in 
Canada, began construction of the Kearl development, a 
pre-disturbance assessment was conducted. This assessment 
helped to document reference conditions for the site’s soils 
and vegetation, which will be used to plan and execute 
end-of-life site reclamation work. In particular, topsoil was 
salvaged during the construction phase so that it could be 
used during reclamation.

Our focus on site rehabilitation leads us toward innovative ways 
to ensure the land we use is available for environmental and 
societal benefits in the future. For example, as areas of the Kearl 
oil sands mine in Canada are no longer needed, we prioritize 
them for progressive reclamation. Progressive reclamation not 
only prevents erosion in the short term, but also allows the land 
to be returned to the local boreal forest ecosystem more quickly. 
Reclamation planners at Kearl, working closely with local First 
Nations, aim to achieve a maintenance-free, self-sustaining 
landscape in the long term, the planning for which takes into 
account traditional knowledge of the area’s wildlife, habitat and 
biodiversity. As of 2015, cumulative permanent reclamation 
on the Kearl lease was approximately 242 acres that include 
terrestrial, wetland and aquatic ecosystems.

ExxonMobil is committed to the responsible, sustainable and 
consistent stewardship of rehabilitated former operational 
sites. We support science-based, cost-effective approaches 
to remediation that utilize consistent criteria and seek to 
align the interests of a broad array of stakeholders. In 2013, 
EMES used an organic capping approach to treat marshland 
and a cove impacted by the Pegasus Pipeline incident. This 
technique promotes the most effective cleanup with the least 
environmental disturbance. Some of the affected soil and 
sediment in the cove was targeted for removal and reactive 
capping was employed in the open water area using a mixture 
of sand and clay. This multi-dimensional risk-based approach 
addresses residual sheening conditions observed in isolated 
areas in the western part of the cove. 

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

54

Up Close:
Offshore decommissioning  
in the Gulf of Mexico

The deepwater Gulf of Mexico is one of the largest sources 
of oil production in the United States and will likely play a key 
role in meeting rising global energy demand. However, Gulf 
of Mexico operations present a unique set of technological, 
environmental and social challenges throughout the life of an 
asset. ExxonMobil has been safely conducting exploration and 
production operations in the Gulf of Mexico for more than 
60 years. Technological advances have enabled ExxonMobil 
to produce offshore oil and gas deposits in water depths that 
seemed unreachable a generation ago.

While ExxonMobil uses a systematic process for 
decommissioning offshore assets, our site-specific approach 
varies depending on the type of structure and unique 
characteristics of a location. 

In all cases, we evaluate potential strategies based on a 
number of factors including safety, environmental and social 
considerations. Certain decommissioning strategies have the 
potential to provide continued benefits to the environment. 
Accordingly, we use comparative assessments as well as 
ecological data to determine the best strategy. 

Lophelia pertusa is an important species because it provides 
habitat for other invertebrates and fish in a similar manner to 
shallow water coral reefs. Many other deepwater invertebrates 
were also identified, including squat lobsters, sea stars, 
anemones and crabs. A variety of deepwater fish species were 
also identified on or very near the structure.

One example of our approach to offshore decommissioning 
was demonstrated at a deepwater platform site offshore of 
Louisiana. To help understand the unique ecological envi-
ronment supported by this offshore platform, ExxonMobil’s 
Upstream Research Company (URC) used remotely operated 
vehicles (ROV) to complete an ecologically focused deep 
sea survey. URC partnered with a Gulf of Mexico fisheries 
expert from Louisiana State University, Dr. Mark Benfield, who 
assisted in developing new detection methodologies and 
reviewing the ROV data. 

The survey data confirmed that the platform hosts a 
healthy and diverse biological community, including thriving 
communities of Lophelia pertusa, a deepwater coral species. 

“At this offshore platform site is a large oasis of healthy cold-
water coral reef in an otherwise low-diversity, soft-bottom 
region of the northern Gulf of Mexico. The scientific analysis 
completed to date supports the opportunity of reefing 
in place. This overall area available for cold-water corals 
and their associated fish and invertebrate populations has 
established an important habitat for large, reproductively 
important groupers and other deepwater fishes and an 
opportunity to study the expansion of a cold-water coral 
reef community. Maintaining this habitat will also help to 
eliminate a population of invasive orange cup coral and 
associated Indo-Pacific lionfish.”

Dr. Mark Benfield 
Professor, Louisiana State University

Decommissioning 
Throughout the Upstream asset life cycle — from exploration 
to decommissioning — care is taken to limit disruptions to 
local communities and protect the environment. Accordingly, 
ExxonMobil ensures that decommissioning activities  
are planned and conducted to appropriately manage risks.  
For our fixed manufacturing assets, the same care is taken. 
For example, in 2015, we completed decommissioning a 
steam cracker at our Fawley refinery in the United Kingdom, 
the largest demolition project ExxonMobil has carried out  
in Europe.

Additionally, the project incorporated environmental  
considerations. For example, some activities were rescheduled 
to avoid potential impact on nesting birds and annual bird 
migrations. The Fawley site also features a small population of 
wild bee orchids and particular care was taken not to damage 
the orchids during the flowering season.

“It really is the end of an era. I hope this project can stand 
as an example to the petrochemical industry of how the 
demolition of large-scale units can be achieved in a safe  
and controlled manner.”

As part of the project, ExxonMobil worked to preserve materials 
that could be reused or recycled for other purposes. In total,  
we segregated and recycled around 15,000 metric tons of 
materials, which represented 89 percent of all materials 
recovered from the demolition site. Ferrous and non-ferrous 
metals were sold as scrap and the concrete was crushed and 
reused for land reclamation. Material that was unable to be 
recycled was disposed of according to local regulations. 

Rob Tarbard 
Project manager, Fawley demolition 

End of an era for a steam cracker at Fawley

Offshore assets present unique and complex decommissioning 
challenges due to a combination of factors, including the 
specific marine ecosystem at each site and the size and weight 
of facilities, as well as the inherent risks of removing such 
facilities in marine environments. As a result, the planning 
and preparation for decommissioning some offshore assets 
can start up to 10 years prior to the actual execution. During 
the planning phase, we seek to incorporate lessons learned 
from other decommissioning projects as well as expert advice 
from interested parties. These parties may include fishing 
communities, environmental organizations and academia. 
We believe stakeholder engagement is critical to helping 
us gain public support for the facility decommissioning 
recommendations we submit to the government.

In recognition of the unique challenges associated with  
offshore assets, we created an offshore decommissioning 
center of expertise (COE) in 2015. This COE is tasked  
with planning and managing the decommissioning of our  
offshore assets.

Environmental performance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

55

Case 
Study

Technological 
innovations in 
Arctic wildlife 
protection

Our Point Thomson project along the 
Beaufort Sea coast in Alaska. We have  
implemented technological advancements 
to improve our understanding of the tundra, 
wildlife, aquatic resources and subsistence 
activities near our operations.

ExxonMobil’s Point Thomson project is located on state acre-
age along the Beaufort Sea coast, 60 miles east of Prudhoe 
Bay, Alaska. The Point Thomson reservoir holds an estimated 
8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and associated natural gas 
condensate, a high-quality hydrocarbon similar to diesel. 
These resources represent about 25 percent of the known 
natural gas reserves in Alaska’s North Slope.  

From the outset of the project, ExxonMobil has worked to 
understand the local physical, biological and social environment.

It is our goal to develop Point Thomson safely and responsibly. 
We believe that strong safety, security, health, environmental 
and social performance is integral to the overall success of the 
project. Throughout the planning, design and construction of 

56

Polar bear sighted near the Point Thomson project. 

A radar panel and camera system are used to detect polar bears, 
including in dark and foggy conditions.

Point Thomson, ExxonMobil has made it a priority to effectively 
manage environmental impacts. We have implemented 
comprehensive measures to mitigate potential impacts on 
tundra, wildlife, aquatic resources and subsistence activities.

As part of the project, care is taken to ensure wildlife and 
wildlife habitat in the area are protected. We use marine 
mammal and wildlife protection plans that are recognized 
by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as a North Slope 
industry best practice. We continually look for technological 
advancements to improve our understanding of the wildlife 
near our operations. 

In 2015, we piloted and enhanced a series of emerging 
technologies in the oil and gas industry, including the use 
of satellite-based remote sensing technology, ground 
surveillance radar (GSR) and unmanned aerial systems (UAS) 
to monitor local wildlife and improve our environmental 
performance in the vicinity of our Point Thomson project site. 

Polar bears, which are a protected species under the Marine 
Mammal Protection Act and a threatened species under the 
Endangered Species Act, travel through the Point Thomson 
area. ExxonMobil has taken several measures to identify and 
avoid potential contact with polar bears and polar bear dens, 
including the use of forward-looking infrared cameras to 
survey surrounding areas. We also provide training to Point 
Thomson employees and contractors on best practices for 
avoiding and mitigating interactions with wildlife. Early detec-
tion of polar bears helps workers to maintain a safe distance, 
improves our ability to monitor bear movement and, if neces-
sary, allows us to warn workers to seek safe haven or safely 
redirect bears away from our facilities in accordance with 
procedures approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

In April 2015, we upgraded and expanded the use of GSR 
technology to detect polar bears and other large animals 
approaching from distances greater than one kilometer.  
This pilot program combines state-of-the-art radar with  
pan-tilt-zoom infrared and visual spectrum cameras to  
provide visual confirmation of objects detected by the radar. 

The technology put in place at Point Thomson is believed to be 
one of the most advanced detection and avoidance systems 
ever deployed in a remote Arctic environment — where both 
human safety and polar bear protection are vital concerns. We 
are enhancing the system in 2016 with additional radar panels 
and cameras to provide greater coverage around the facility. 

A core component of ExxonMobil’s vision for Point Thomson 
is to be a good neighbor. We work with the local communities 
and government authorities in the project area to understand 
their concerns and avoid conflicts with their lifestyle. Through a 
comprehensive assessment approach and regular engagement, 
we are able to identify areas of concern to the local residents, 
and we have adopted corresponding measures to address 
these concerns. We also engage with stakeholders in local 
communities and with government and regulatory agencies 
to help address biodiversity and sustainability challenges. For 
example, ExxonMobil participates in meetings and workshops 
with North Slope Borough officials and residents to develop a 
deeper understanding of local concerns and priorities.

57

Technological innovations in Arctic wildlife protection exxonmobil.com/citizenshipA worker launching a PrecisionHawk fixed-wing UAS near the Point 
Thomson project.

Caribou migrating through the Point Thomson area, as detected by a tundra camera.

ExxonMobil monitors caribou in the Point Thomson project 
area to assess herd migration patterns. Traditional aerial 
surveys were conducted in June 2013 and June 2014 to 
count caribou in the project area and document calving 
locations. Between May and September 2013, we deployed 
motion-activated cameras to document caribou movements 
near planned infrastructure, and in 2014, we monitored 
caribou behavior around constructed facilities. 

In response to feedback from North Slope communities about 
the use of low-flying aircraft in caribou surveys, we tested the 
capabilities of satellite-based remote sensing techniques 
to monitor the annual summer caribou migration near our 
project location in 2015. Following three years of monitoring, 
the number of caribou moving through the area suggested that 
the presence of the pipeline did not deter caribou movements. 

Using remote sensing technology enabled us to augment 
aerial surveys and reduce the use of low-flying aircraft for  
caribou surveys. We used high-resolution imagery collected 
from three satellite platforms, in coordination with an 

aircraft survey and caribou collar GPS data, to determine 
known caribou locations. Data from all three platforms were 
evaluated for visual and unique spectral signatures. The 
preliminary results from this initiative proved promising, and 
we will continue to test remote sensing and other emerging 
technologies to further enhance our wildlife monitoring 
initiatives. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to 
use remote sensing methodologies to monitor caribou 
populations on the North Slope of Alaska.

ExxonMobil also seeks to protect wetlands, streams, lakes 
and marine waters in the Point Thomson area. For example, 
we designed roads, bridges and culverts in a manner that 
maintains natural drainage patterns and stream flows to the 
extent possible. Additionally, where appropriate, ExxonMobil 
uses bridges instead of culverts to mitigate potential impacts 
on fish passage and stream flows. In 2015, our engineers 
and scientists experimented with two UAS surveys at Point 
Thomson to evaluate tundra vegetation and water bodies as 
an alternative to traditional helicopter-based surveys. 

The UAS proved to be more accurate and provided superior 
imagery for photographic monitoring of these important 
environmental sites. During the same experiment, we 
evaluated the ability to survey pipelines in the vicinity of our 
Point Thomson operations. 

Point Thomson marks a new era both for ExxonMobil in 
Alaska and on the North Slope. ExxonMobil’s investments will 
open the eastern North Slope to new development and 
lead to the prolonged use of the trans-Alaska pipeline system. 
Throughout the planning, design and construction of the Point 
Thomson project, ExxonMobil has made it a priority to avoid 
or reduce environmental and social impacts and their related 
risks. We have implemented a variety of mitigation measures 
with a focus on the tundra, wildlife, aquatic resources and 
subsistence activities to ensure our operations are conducted 
in a responsible manner.

Unmanned aerial systems pilot at the  
Point Thomson project

58

Technological innovations in Arctic wildlife protection exxonmobil.com/citizenship 
Community and 
social impact

Members of ADPP, an ExxonMobil Foundation 
grant recipient, participating in women’s 
farmer clubs in Angola. ExxonMobil strives to 
have a positive impact around the world on 
the individual communities in which we live 
and operate.

We seek to contribute to the social and economic progress 
of the local communities where we operate. We believe that 
maintaining a fundamental respect for human rights, respon-
sibly managing our impacts on communities and making 
valued social investments are integral to the success and 
sustainability of our business. 

The socioeconomic aspects of our business fall into seven 
broad categories, as depicted below. While all of these 
socioeconomic aspects are discussed in this report, in this 
chapter we focus on the following five topics: human rights; 
community relations; indigenous peoples; cultural heritage 
and diversity; and land use and resettlement. For information 
on transparency and anti-corruption, see the corporate 
governance chapter beginning on page 81, and for economic 
development, see the local development and supply chain 
management chapter beginning on page 74. 

Cultural heritage
and diversity

Transparency and 
anti-corruption

Indigenous
peoples

Land use and
resettlement

Economic
development

Human rights

Community
relations

Respecting human rights

We believe that understanding and addressing the interests of 
communities where we operate, and the potential impact of 
our operations on them, is critical to maintaining a sustainable 
business. ExxonMobil actively engages with stakeholders 
in local communities and integrates these discussions into 
decision-making processes to identify any issues or concerns 
early on in a project. In 2015, we developed a risk assessment 
tool — as part of our Environmental, Socioeconomic and 
Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) process — that enhances 
operational due diligence by strengthening awareness of 
potential human rights impacts and risks. 

ExxonMobil operates in environments where engagement  
with host governments is needed to support security and 
respect for human rights in local operations. We have 
been a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights since 2002, and in 2015 we became one of 
the corporate representatives on the steering committee of 
the Voluntary Principles. Through our role on the steering 
committee, we work closely with governments, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and industry to share  
and promote best practices in security and human rights. 

Our Statement and Framework on Security and Human  
Rights includes guidance on working with both host 
governments and private security personnel in a manner 
that respects human rights. We also have agreements with 
private security firms with which we work that contain 
requirements to uphold human rights. These agreements 
include expectations for training and compliance with relevant 
local, UN and other security-related frameworks. In 2015, 
we updated our Upstream Operations Integrity Management 
System (OIMS) for security to address expectations regarding 
the Framework, including responsibilities for employees 
and contractors in our Upstream operations. We conduct 
assessments to verify implementation of the Framework as 
part of our OIMS process.

ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights. Our 
approach to human rights is consistent with the United 
Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, which outline the distinct, yet complementary, roles 
of government and business with regard to human rights: the 
government’s duty to protect human rights, and business’ 
responsibility to respect them. 

ExxonMobil complies with all applicable laws and regulations 
and seeks to work with suppliers and business partners who 
share our commitment to human rights. For information on 
detecting, preventing and managing human rights risks in 
our supply chain, see page 78. Within our own workforce, 
our commitment to human rights is supported by our 
Standards of Business Conduct and our Statement on Labor 

and the Workplace. Our Statement reinforces support for 
the principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO) 
1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work, notably the elimination of child labor, forced labor and 
workplace discrimination. 

Up Close: 
Human rights general 
awareness training

ExxonMobil has conducted human rights training in select 
regions for many years. We believe our training builds 
understanding of human rights and awareness of potential 
impacts. In late 2015, we rolled out a new computer-based 
human rights training module to further enhance internal 
awareness of human rights. This training primarily targets 
employees working in locations with higher potential human 
rights risks, and it includes information about what human 
rights entail as well as their relevance to ExxonMobil. As 
of year-end 2015, more than 1,200 employees in over 
40 countries have participated in the training, including 
personnel working on the development of the Chad-
Cameroon pipeline system. This newest training module 
complements existing training programs that have been 
underway for several years in security and socioeconomics.

“The Chad-Cameroon development project involves 
complex operational, environmental and social issues. We 
believe a commitment to respect human rights is critical 
to our license to operate in our producing areas and along 
the pipeline route. The computer-based training provides 
our employees with a more in-depth understanding of 
potential human rights risks, and helps increase awareness 
of employee responsibilities regarding this issue.”

Christian Lenoble 
General manager, Esso Exploration  
and Production Chad Inc. 

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

60

Managing community 
engagement

ExxonMobil works in communities all over the world, each 
with their own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. We 
strive to have a positive impact on the individual communities 
in which we live and operate. We believe proactively man-
aging potential issues, while also enhancing community bene-
fits, is integral to developing long-term, positive relationships. 

ExxonMobil believes a consistent approach helps our employees, 
contractors and partners effectively manage socioeconomic 
issues. We use our Upstream Socioeconomic Management 
Standard to identify potential socioeconomic impacts and 
their associated risks early in the Upstream asset life cycle, and 
then develop and implement appropriate avoidance, reduction, 
remedy and monitoring measures.

In 2010, ExxonMobil established a socioeconomic 
management center of expertise (COE) to ensure a  
systematic approach to a dynamic and evolving arena. 
The COE utilizes a functional advisory team with various 
representatives from relevant company business lines,  
such as procurement, treasurers, land, security, medical  
and occupational health, and public and government  
affairs. The advisory team meets semiannually to review 
and discuss strategy, alignment and direction regarding 
socioeconomic considerations. The COE also meets with 
our External Citizenship Advisory Panel annually to review 
initiatives and gain insights and direction for future efforts. 

Further, a socioeconomic management course regarding 
implementation of the Upstream Socioeconomic Manage-
ment Standard and its elements is held twice a year. This 
course has provided a forum for more than 100 ExxonMobil 
employees from 18 countries to collaborate as well as 
exchange ideas and lessons learned. 

We have found that in order to optimize opportunities for 
creating and enhancing positive socioeconomic effects and 
to successfully implement appropriate risk management 
measures, identifying actual and potential impacts early 
is essential. 

The Hebron project under construction in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.

Up Close: 
The Hebron project in Canada 

Located offshore Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, the 
Hebron project is estimated to produce more than 700 million 
barrels of recoverable resources over the next 30 years. The 
project requires a number of components, including a gravity-
based structure (GBS) that stands on the seafloor and supports 
the topsides modules, which contain living quarters and drilling 
and processing operations. Several of these components are 
being built at Bull Arm, one of Hebron’s main construction 
sites in Newfoundland and Labrador. Since 2009, a number 
of programs have evolved from our ongoing community 
consultation, including construction site tours and ocean 
education programs.  

The project launched a public tour program in 2013, through 
which more than 2,600 visitors have taken bus tours of the 
Bull Arm construction site. The tour route includes a view of 
the camp facilities and two lookout points: one overlooking 
the former dry dock area and the second overlooking the 
deepwater site. A dedicated tour facilitator accompanies 
each group and provides a safety overview, history of the site 
and an overview of activities to date for both the GBS and 
topside modules.

Through our consultation with various community groups in 
Newfoundland and Labrador, we learned of a common desire 
to increase the public’s ocean awareness and education. In 
response, project personnel worked with local organizations 
to develop ocean education programs that support science 
education while reflecting the local community’s oceanic culture 
and economy. Contributions made by the project also facilitated 
the establishment of the Oceans Learning Partnership, a multi-
stakeholder organization dedicated to enhancing the awareness 
and interest in the ocean and ocean-related careers among the 
youth of Newfoundland and Labrador.

In 2012, the Hebron project funded the “Floating Classroom,” 
a 42-foot-long, state-of-the-art research vessel designed to 
help K–12 students develop skills in oceanographic, biological 
and meteorological fields. The program engages students 
through hands-on learning experiences at sea, including 
identifying marine species and habitats and measuring water 
quality and weather conditions. 

The project also contributed to the establishment of the Petty 
Harbour Mini Aquarium, a seasonal small-scale aquarium 
that showcases marine life found in Newfoundland’s coastal 
waters. As a seasonal program, all of the marine life in the 
tanks is returned to the local waters at the end of each 
season. In each of its first three years of operation, more than 
17,000 people have visited the aquarium. 

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

61

Up Close: 
Community advisory panels in 
Appalachia

Many areas in Appalachia have a long history of energy devel-
opment. However, unconventional oil and gas development 
is still relatively new. Our approach to community relations 
is grounded in general principles that allow us to tailor our 
efforts to address the needs of a given community where we 
live and operate.

In order to tailor our approach to local issues, we have 
developed community advisory panels (CAP) near our 
operations in areas of Pennsylvania and Ohio. To form a  
CAP, we partner with community leaders who live and  

work in the areas where we operate — local officials, leaders  
in education, business community members, emergency  
and first responders, land and mineral rights owners and local 
charitable organizations. Recognizing that there is no substitute 
for face-to-face communication, XTO Energy employees 
engage regularly with these community leaders to discuss the 
phases of our operations, including drilling, hydraulic fracturing, 
production and processing. Additionally, in order to give context 
to our discussions, we provide site tours to give an up-close 
look at our operations.

We believe that engaging in open dialogue with members of 
the community is vital to our long-term success in the region. 
Our regular meetings help us stay in direct contact with the 
community as we strive to address concerns that arise in 
real time, and help keep the community up to date about our 
activities. In addition to providing context to our operations, 

XTO Energy engineers and geologists explain the steps we 
take to safeguard the community and the environment and 
to combat the misinformation about our industry that is 
prevalent in the media.

“There is no ‘one-size-fits-all’ solution to community 
engagement. Every community has its own unique needs 
and challenges, and we work to maintain an ongoing 
dialogue with our neighbors, partners and local leaders. By 
developing strong relationships, we can better understand 
the needs of our communities and help ensure the work we 
do is creating a lasting benefit.”

Amy Dobkin
Community relations manager, XTO Energy  
Appalachia Division

By outlining different expectations based on the identification 
of relevant socioeconomic aspects, the Standard ensures that 
our Upstream activities proactively identify socioeconomic 
risks and implement timely well-balanced solutions. 

Community relations
Working collaboratively and transparently with local 
communities is essential to promoting positive long-term 
relationships and fostering ongoing support for our activities. 
We make every effort to consult with community stakeholders 
on a regular basis for the purpose of exchanging information 
and proactively identifying issues or concerns. By integrating 
the results of these discussions into our decision-making 
processes, we can help avoid or reduce our impacts on 
communities, enhance benefits, avert delays, reduce costs 
and prevent the escalation of issues.

ExxonMobil defines our location-specific community 
awareness programs and government relations protocols 
using our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) coupled 
with ESHIAs and/or Environmental, Social and Health 
Management Plans (ESHMPs). Our BPEA process is  
designed to help identify the specific needs, expectations  
and interests of host communities and aligns those needs  

with our community investment programs. We utilize  
ESHIAs to identify the actual and potential impacts of a 
specific project and ways to avoid, reduce or remedy those 
impacts. Together, BPEA and ESHIAs help build and maintain 
a positive and transparent relationship in the communities in 
which we operate.

We seek to ensure interested stakeholders are fairly repre-
sented as community issues are discussed and decisions are 
made. Once a project starts, we provide local groups and 
individuals with communication channels to voice concerns. 
Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard 
includes provisions for establishing a systematic and trans-
parent grievance management process to address individual 
and community concerns about a project. When appropriate, 
dedicated personnel are responsible for developing and 
managing a process to map, track, analyze and respond to 
community grievances. 

Indigenous peoples
Our operations sometimes take place in areas inhabited  
or historically used by indigenous peoples. In locations  
such as this, we work with indigenous communities  
to respectfully protect their cultures and customs.  

Our approach to interacting with indigenous peoples around  
the world is consistent with the following four guidelines:

• 

ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indigenous and  
Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries

•  United Nations Declaration on the Rights of  

Indigenous Peoples

• 

International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance  
Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability

•  World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on 

Indigenous Peoples

When working with indigenous peoples, one of our key 
objectives is to determine how they prefer to engage. For 
example, communities can decide if they want us to meet with 
elected leaders, community elders or other representatives, 
and if those engagements are conducted in a public forum, 
either formal or informal. We empower the communities to 
establish their preference for how often and how long their 
members meet with ExxonMobil representatives, and who  
will provide their viewpoints or represent their wishes.  

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

62

 
Up Close: 
Working with indigenous 
peoples in Kaktovik, Alaska

The village of Kaktovik, located within the Arctic National 
Wildlife Refuge Coastal Plain on Barter Island, is home to 
approximately 250 to 300 residents of Inupiat Eskimo descent 
whose ancestors have lived in the area for centuries. During 
the 1890s and early 1900s, Barter Island was an important 
trading site for commercial whalers. Early inhabitants of the 
region were semi-nomadic and relied heavily on the availability 
of fish, game and marine mammals. Today, Kaktovik residents 
continue to maintain a strong connection to the cultural 
heritage of their ancestors.

Our Point Thomson project is located on state acreage along 
the remote Beaufort Sea coast, 60 miles west of Kaktovik. A 

central tenet of our vision for Point Thomson is to be a good 
neighbor. Through regular and consistent communication with 
Kaktovik community leaders and residents, we learned about 
their long-standing desire to reconnect with a collection of 
more than 3,000 artifacts that were excavated and removed 
from the area in 1914 and curated at the Canadian Museum 
of History (CMH). The collection includes antler arrowheads, 
ivory harpoon heads, traditional copper slate knives and other 
remarkably preserved artifacts that represent a way of life 
extending back 1,000 years.

The Point Thomson project’s multi-year cultural resources 
management program culminated in the return of this 
collection to Alaska for the first time since 1914. As part of a 
museum-to-museum loan, the CMH sent this iconic collection 
to the University of Alaska Museum of the North in Fairbanks, 
where ExxonMobil sponsored Kaktovik cultural experts to 
visit and assist researchers in the documentation and analysis 
process. The program soon evolved into a cultural exchange 

where village residents were able to reconnect with the 
collection, helping bolster local elementary and secondary 
education programs that preserve and advance their rich 
Inupiat cultural heritage.

Return of artifacts to Alaska fulfills century-old promise

Kaktovik artifacts preserved at the University of Alaska Museum of the 
North in Fairbanks, Alaska.

In addition, we seek to provide mutually beneficial training, 
employment and business opportunities to indigenous 
peoples through local content programs and strategic 
community investments. For additional information on our 
strategic community investment initiatives, see page 64.

A core component of our operations is ensuring the safety of 
our employees as well as neighboring communities. In 2015, 
ExxonMobil partnered with the Marine Exchange of Alaska, a 
nonprofit maritime organization, and two local indigenous 
villages to upgrade safety technology in their communication 
centers near our operations at Point Thomson, Alaska. Vessel 
tracking software and communication devices were used to 
help village residents monitor marine vessel traffic in relation 
to their traditional subsistence hunting areas. As a result of this 
effort, marine users were able to avoid conflicts with subsistence 
activities and carry out their operations in a safe manner. 

We continue to participate on the global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues, IPIECA’s, task 
force on free prior and informed consent, which focuses on 
gaining clarity on the definition and best practices for working 

with indigenous peoples. In 2015, IPIECA continued to 
monitor developments related to this topic and held periodic 
calls, sessions and webinars to share local knowledge and 
discuss emerging trends. 

Cultural heritage and diversity
We are sensitive to concerns around balancing cultural heritage 
with the desire for economic development. Our respect for the 
cultural heritage and customs of local communities carries into 
our everyday business practices. For our Upstream projects, 
we incorporate into our project planning, design and execution 
considerations such as cultural, spiritual or sacred heritage sites 
and areas, biodiversity conservation, traditional knowledge and 
sustainable resource management.

Prior to starting work in an area, we identify potential sites 
of cultural significance using a cultural heritage identification 
process. Additionally, we leverage relevant studies to deepen 
the knowledge among our workforce and provide training to 
our construction and field contractor personnel on managing 
cultural heritage challenges. Our objective is to preserve 
cultural sites and artifacts appropriately.

Land use and resettlement
ExxonMobil employs practices and policies to respect 
property rights in the locations where we operate, and 
we pay particular attention to those areas populated 
by indigenous peoples. Whenever land is necessary for 
projects, we adhere to applicable host-country regulatory 
requirements that govern land acquisition. If projects are 
externally financed, we also comply with land use, access 
and resettlement requirements stipulated by the lender(s). 
Additionally, consistent with the 2012 IFC Performance 
Standards, when working on traditional lands, we endeavor 
to obtain the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous 
peoples before initiating significant development activities.

We understand that community members often have concerns 
about how our activities may affect their land and way of 
life. When managing land-use-related impacts, we aim to 
minimize involuntary resettlement through a disciplined multi-
dimensional site selection process. Several potential locations 
are typically assessed based on technical criteria such as 
availability, accessibility, safety, security and constructability, 

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

63

as well as environmental and social considerations. All of 
these factors are then evaluated and locations are ranked to 
determine the lowest-risk options. There are several cases 
where we have rerouted infrastructure or chosen an alternative 
site for a facility to address resettlement-related concerns.

When physical or economic displacement is unavoidable, we 
seek to ensure the restoration of the livelihoods of displaced 
persons by developing and implementing location-specific 
resettlement action plans that are informed by consultations 
with landowners as well as surveying and mapping of housing 
structures, gardens, wildlife, natural products, harvesting 
areas and other assets. Assessment teams also identify 
resettled individuals or groups who may be more affected by 
the displacement than others. When appropriate, we closely 
monitor these individuals or groups and assign them to 
priority resettlement assistance programs. ExxonMobil was 
not involved in the resettlement of any individuals in 2015. 

We did, however, complete our resettlement and livelihood 
restoration process in Papua New Guinea (PNG), including a 
two-year monitoring process. The project conducted internal 
outcome evaluation for both standard of living and livelihood 
restoration of affected households. This program, which 
was a lender requirement and part of the ESHMP for the 
PNG liquified natural gas project, was well-defined, well-
communicated and well-managed. Closeout was achieved 
via a formal audit by the lenders, and ExxonMobil was 
commended for its overall performance and management of 
the program.

Strategic community 
investments

ExxonMobil strives to be a good corporate citizen by working 
with governments, engaging with stakeholders and partnering 
with local and international organizations to help enhance the 
quality of life in the communities where we operate around 
the world. Whether through the U.S.-based ExxonMobil 
Foundation, the corporation or international affiliated 
company operations, we strategically invest in long-term 
social programs that directly impact our business and align 
with a host country’s economic and social goals. In 2015, we 
contributed $268 million to communities around the world. 

2015 community investments 
by focus area1

2015 community investments
by geographic region2

Millions of dollars

Millions of dollars

Employee and
retiree giving

$40

Women

$11

Public policy 
research 

$8

Precollege 
education

$32

Arts and culture

$4

Civic and
community

$83

Latin America

$2

Europe/Caspian

$55

Other
education

$6

Health

$24

Environment

$4

Worldwide total

$268

United 
appeals and 
workplace giving

$7

Higher 
education

$49

United States

$145

Worldwide total

$268

Canada

$10

Africa/Middle East

$41

Asia Pacific

$15

ExxonMobil seeks to make meaningful community investments in a variety of 
focus areas. In 2015, total community investments were $268 million, with the 
greatest investment in civic and community initiatives. 

ExxonMobil's community investments span across the many geographic regions 
in which we operate. In 2015, we invested a total of $268 million in communities 
around the world.

1Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our  
 divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee 
 and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and
 employee giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital 
 and operating expenditures, which totaled approximately $5.6 billion in 2015.

2Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our  
 divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee
 and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and  
 employee giving programs.

We focus the majority of our spending on our corporate-led 
signature initiatives: improving education, combating malaria 
and advancing economic opportunities for women. We 
concentrate on these three areas because we believe they 
help build a foundation for human progress. 

In addition to our signature initiatives, we provide local invest-
ments tailored to address community-specific social and eco-
nomic challenges such as workforce development, access to 
health care and natural disaster recovery support. We consider 
the development goals of each community when deciding 
where, when and how best to invest.

One example of our local investment efforts in 2015 included 
the completion of a three-year community health center 
restoration project in Batete, Equatorial Guinea. This 
community-specific investment by ExxonMobil affiliate Mobil 
Equatorial Guinea Inc. is designed to provide local community 
members with access to the latest medical equipment and 
a full-time doctor on site. The health center in Equatorial 
Guinea supports around 3,000 residents in Batete and its 
surrounding villages. 

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

64

   
   
Members of the Batete community are already experiencing 
the benefits of the ExxonMobil-funded improved health care 
services. Just two weeks after the center was completed, 
the first baby was successfully delivered in the facility under 
enhanced hygienic conditions. Additional information on our 
community-specific investments can be found on the global 
stories section of our website.

“Batete is a good example of our community investment 
philosophy — how we not only prioritize large urban 
communities, but also rural areas of the country.”

David Findley 
Lead country manager, Mobil Equatorial Guinea Inc.

Global stories

To help understand the impact of our strategic community 
investment program and maximize the long-term 
sustainability and benefits of our efforts, we work in close 
collaboration with our partners to design and implement 
robust measurement and evaluation plans. We also conduct 
research intended to contribute to the broader fields in 
which we invest. For example, in 2015, we made efforts to 
identify a set of common metrics that enable community 
investment program implementers and supporters to measure 
the qualitative and quantitative impact of programs aimed 
at providing economic opportunities for women. For the 
following examples, and wherever possible in this report, we 
seek to describe the outcomes of our investments beyond 
dollars spent and activities conducted. 

Up Close: 
The Teach For All Global  
STEM Initiative 

Science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
skills are critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared for 
the jobs of the 21st century. At ExxonMobil, we believe we 
can have the greatest impact on education by helping train 
highly qualified teachers in math and science, encouraging 
students from all backgrounds to pursue math and science, 
and preparing students for STEM-related college degrees 
and careers. For more than a decade, we have focused 
our education initiatives on a variety of programs that help 
address the STEM challenge. 

The ExxonMobil Foundation is the founding partner of Teach 
For All’s Global STEM Initiative. The Initiative, launched with our 
support in 2015, has enabled Teach For All to help its nearly 
40 partner organizations improve their recruitment, training, 
placement and support of STEM teachers across the network. 
The goal of the program is to increase the number and impact 
of STEM teachers around the world, including in Argentina, 

Colombia and Mexico. The initiative will also help Teach For All 
support network partner alumni who are leaders in STEM fields. 

With funding from ExxonMobil, Teach For All has started 
prioritizing STEM education as part of their teacher 
recruitment, placement and development initiatives around 
the world. For example, nearly three-fourths of Teach For 
Qatar participants teach STEM subjects, as well as more than 
one-third of Enseña por Argentina and Enseñá por México 
participants. Additionally, Teach For Sweden directs nearly 
100 percent of its teacher participants toward STEM subjects, 
while Teach First United Kingdom has increased the number 
of teachers it assigns into STEM subjects by almost 50 percent 
over the past five years.

“We are thrilled to have ExxonMobil join our global effort for 
educational and social equity. This important collaboration 
will give the students we serve a chance to learn the STEM 
skills they will need to solve the global challenges of the 
future, as well as improve their daily lives.”

Wendy Kopp 
Co-founder and CEO, Teach For All

In 2015, with the help of ExxonMobil, Teach For All also 
began identifying network-wide best practices for STEM. 
Part of this effort involved expanding STEM-related data 
collection to include the number of participants that partners 
place in STEM fields, as well as their targets for participant 
placement in each subject area. The data collected from the 
4,322 STEM teachers currently in the Teach For All network 
will offer valuable insights and serve as a reference point 
to further enhance the STEM Initiative. Teach For All is also 
administering student-perception surveys to 20 network 
partners to help assess teacher effectiveness. These surveys 
will help Teach For All better understand teacher impact on 
students so partner organizations can improve by reflecting 
on their teacher development efforts. 

A teacher participating in Enseña por Colombia mentoring his students on 
STEM subjects.

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

65

Two young girls participate in the ExxonMobil Girls Engineering Festival  
at the Lonestar Convention Center in Conroe, Texas, in May 2015.

With the help of ExxonMobil, USAID collects blood samples for malaria tests 
at the Lucala municipal hospital in the Kwanza Norte province of Angola.

A Solar Sister participant uses a neighbor-to-neighbor distribution system 
to deliver solar technology solutions to her community.

Education initiative
We believe global economic growth in today’s high-tech 
world relies upon highly skilled individuals, particularly 
those well-trained in STEM. In the United States alone, 
the U.S. Department of Commerce estimates that STEM 
occupations are projected to grow almost twice as fast as 
non-STEM-related occupations from 2008 to 2018.  

For this reason, we invest in education and teacher develop-
ment programs designed to encourage students to pursue 
careers in the STEM fields. Over the past 16 years, we have 
contributed more than $1.2 billion to education programs 
around the world. In 2015, we invested nearly $100 million in 
education programs around the world.

In 2015, ExxonMobil continued to support the Alaska Native 
Science and Engineering Program (ANSEP) through a two-
week middle school academy program designed to help 
students learn and complete Algebra I curricula. During the 
middle school academy, participating students in grades five 
through eight explore engineering and science career options 
and complete a hands-on activity designed to help prepare 
them for post-secondary STEM curricula. As a result of the 
program, more than 75 percent of ANSEP students complete 
Algebra I by the end of the eighth grade, compared with just 
26 percent of students nationwide.  

Additionally, 95 percent of participating students advanced a full 
grade level in math or science for each summer they enrolled in 
the program. For more information on our efforts on education 
initiatives in 2015, see the Up Close on the previous page. 

Malaria initiative
We care about the health of our employees, their families and 
members of the communities where we operate, which is why 
we invest in community health programs that help combat 
preventable or treatable illnesses. In several countries where 
we operate, including sub-Saharan Africa, malaria continues 
to have a significant impact on local communities. Each year, 
this preventable and treatable disease claims the lives of 
nearly half a million people. The good news, however, is that 
significant progress has been made in the global fight against 
malaria and the number of deaths and infections continues 
to decline. We believe ending deaths from malaria requires 
an integrated approach, including education, prevention and 
access to proper diagnosis and treatment. 

To date, the antimalarial programs we have funded were 
able to reach more than 125 million people, and our support 
has resulted in the distribution of almost 14 million bed nets, 
3.8 million doses of antimalarial treatments and 2.6 million 
rapid diagnostic kits, as well as the training of more than 
520,000 health workers. Our cash grants during the past 
15 years total more than $146 million, making us the largest 
private-sector grant-maker in the fight against malaria. For 
more information on our community malaria initiatives in  
2015, see the Up Close on page 69. 

Women’s economic opportunity initiative
Economically empowering women is essential to enhancing 
local economic development. According to a 2014 World Bank 
report, Gender at Work, women are key drivers of economic 
progress and development because they consistently invest 
in their children and communities. Women also tend to help 
propel other women forward, creating a powerful multiplier 
effect that benefits society as a whole.

In 2015, ExxonMobil contributed $12.5 million to fight malaria. 
We are proud to say that 2015 marks ExxonMobil’s 15th 
anniversary year working to reduce the human and economic 
toll of this disease. These contributions have supported a variety 
of research, educational and treatment programs in countries 
and communities that lack adequate health care systems.  

To promote economic opportunities for women, we invest 
in programs proven to provide the skills and resources 
needed to increase their productivity and income. Over 
the past 10 years, ExxonMobil has invested approximately 
$94 million for the purpose of helping women fulfill their 
economic potential and improve their well-being and that 

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

66

of their families and communities. Our investments focus 
on three key areas: supporting research to identify effective 
interventions; developing women farmers, entrepreneurs 
and business leaders; and improving women’s access to 
technology. Our support has reached tens of thousands 
of women in more than 90 countries. In 2015 alone, our 
contributions totaled nearly $12 million. See the adjacent 
Up Close and visit the ExxonMobil Foundation website for 
additional information on our efforts to improve women’s 
economic opportunities. 

ExxonMobil Foundation

Employee participation
Volunteering and charitable giving are integral to ExxonMobil’s 
culture. Around the world, our employees support local 
communities by becoming mentors to students, assisting 
local food banks and providing environmental education 
opportunities, among other activities. We encourage 
employees to contribute to the communities where they live 
and work by granting time off to volunteer with charitable 
organizations. Where applicable, ExxonMobil’s modified 
workweek program provides supervisors the flexibility to work 
with employees to adjust their work schedules to participate 
in such events. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s 
workplace flexibility programs, see page 28. 

ExxonMobil offers several programs that allow our employees 
and retirees to maximize their charitable impacts. Our volunteer 
involvement program encourages employees, retirees and 
their families to volunteer and contribute their time and talent 
to charitable organizations, either individually or in teams. In 
the United States, the program provides a $500 donation on 
their behalf for every 20 hours volunteered, up to four times per 
volunteer per year. 

Additionally, our educational matching gift program matches 
employee and retiree donations to U.S. higher education 
institutions at a ratio of 3-to-1. In 2014, 6,000 employees 
and retirees donated $19 million to nearly 4,000 colleges and 
universities, as well as minority scholarship programs — which 
the ExxonMobil Foundation then matched with $34 million 
in 2015. 

Up Close: 
Empowering women with 
access to mobile savings

As part of ExxonMobil’s commitment to empowering women 
economically, the ExxonMobil Foundation joined forces in 2012  
with the United Nations Foundation to produce A Roadmap for 
Promoting Women’s Economic Empowerment, a study outlining 
the most effective interventions to directly advance women’s 
economic opportunities. The Roadmap identified providing 
women access to savings opportunities through mobile phone 
technology as a high-potential community investment. To build 
on the research findings from the Roadmap, the ExxonMobil 
Foundation began collaborating with TechnoServe, Mercy Corps 
and the Center for Global Development (CGD) in 2015 to pilot 
mobile saving opportunities and financial literacy training for 
women entrepreneurs in Indonesia and Tanzania. 

A large number of women in Indonesia and Tanzania do not 
have access to banking and other financial services, live long 
distances from a bank branch or are deterred by burdensome 
bank fees and administrative requirements. This program, which 
runs through the end of 2016, will test the theory that women 
entrepreneurs and farmers with access to basic banking and 
insurance services through mobile telephones will be able to 
save more, invest their increased savings in their businesses 
and see increased income from those businesses. To streamline 
program efforts, TechnoServe and Mercy Corps are simulta-
neously providing mobile savings access and financial literacy 
training to 3,000 women farmers and entrepreneurs in Indonesia 
and Tanzania.

As part of our ongoing effort to evaluate program results and 
maximize positive outcomes, CGD is conducting a two-phase 
impact evaluation of the women entrepreneurs and farmers 
participating in the program. This evaluation will study the efficacy 
of the program and test the theory that access to mobile savings 
can increase business income. In 2015, key evaluation efforts 
included developing the initial surveys, piloting survey instruments 
and conducting preliminary research on methodologies for the 
pilot. Once approved, CGD will implement the study design 
and select a third-party organization to conduct the surveys in 
Tanzania and Indonesia. 

Local Tanzanian, Asia Diwala, applies the skills she learned from the enterprise 
development training she received through support from the ExxonMobil 
Foundation, Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and the Tanzania Gatsby Trust.

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

67

In total, nearly 15,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their 
families donated more than 629,000 volunteer hours to almost 
5,000 charitable organizations in 34 countries in 2015. 

ExxonMobil 2015 Worldwide Giving Report

Since our initial investment in pro bono legal services in 1917, 
ExxonMobil’s U.S. program has evolved from a grassroots effort 
to a fully defined program, and our attorneys give hundreds of 
people free legal support each year. In 2015, 171 volunteers 
in the United States, including 137 attorneys and 31 support 
staff, devoted 3,624 hours to pro bono service. These services 
included helping veterans, children, domestic violence survivors, 
immigrants and citizens with various legal issues, including 
family law matters, tax issues and will preparation. Our U.S. law 
management sponsors a pro bono committee in Houston that 
includes representatives from the various practice groups. The 
global stories section of our website has additional examples of 
our employee volunteerism activities around the world.

“As lawyers, we have a duty to give a voice to those who 
don’t have one. It seems so simple to share something you 
already know, but it’s a big deal to the clients we help.” 

Susan Barrington Sanchez
Co-coordinator of ExxonMobil’s pro bono committee, 
2010–2015

ExxonMobil volunteer Bill Carpenter participates in Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day in February 2015.

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

68

Up Close: 
Fighting malaria in West Africa

ExxonMobil has witnessed the devastating human 
and economic toll malaria takes on our workforce and 
the communities in which we operate. In 2015, we 
continued making progress in the fight against malaria in 
high-endemic African countries where we have operations — 
in particular Angola, Nigeria, Tanzania, Equatorial Guinea, 
Chad and Cameroon. 

Angola 
For 11 years, ExxonMobil has supported Africare, an NGO 
committed to finding solutions for health challenges, through 
its community-based malaria projects in Angola. This year, 
ExxonMobil helped Africare scale up its community-based 
malaria intervention program in Quipungo, Angola. 

This project focuses on the control and treatment of malaria for 
children and pregnant women with the following goals:

•  Ensuring 85 percent of pregnant women and children under 
the age of five sleep under long-lasting, insecticide-treated 
bed nets;

•  85 percent of pregnant women and children under the age 

of five receive appropriate malaria treatment within 24 hours 
of exhibiting symptoms;

•  85 percent of pregnant women receive two doses of 

malaria prophylaxis; and

•  Local nurses are trained in malaria prevention, management 

and treatment. 

In 2015, a network of 285 trained volunteers conducted 
136,800 house visits focusing on these four international 
malaria control goals. Additionally, the ExxonMobil 
Foundation, in partnership with Africare, supports the 
Child Survival Collaborations and Resources (CORE) Group 
community malaria program in Angola. The CORE Group is a 
network of nonprofit international organizations committed 
to improving the health of women and children in high-risk 
malaria communities.  

Africare volunteers provide bed nets and malaria awareness training to local community members in Angola.

In 2015, the CORE Group, working in 12 of the 16 provinces 
in the country, improved the health skills of more than 
2,600 community volunteers, helped administer the first and 
second doses of malaria prophylaxis treatment for more 
than 35,000 pregnant women and disseminated key malaria 
messages to around 265,000 Angolan families. 

Nigeria, Tanzania and Equatorial Guinea
For the past four years, the ExxonMobil Foundation has 
supported Grassroot Soccer (GRS), an NGO that educates 
local youth in Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania on how 

to prevent malaria, HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. 
The program’s success stems from its community-based 
approach that uses soccer-based games and activities to 
engage and educate participants. 

As part of this community-based approach, GRS recruits 
high-profile Africans, such as national team soccer players and 
local celebrities, to become ambassadors for the program. 
Since 2012, ExxonMobil has invested nearly $2.3 million 
to expand the program to involve more than 63,000 boys 
and girls in Nigeria, nearly 10,000 in Tanzania and nearly 

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

69

 
3,000 in Equatorial Guinea. In 2015, GRS was able to scale 
up its program in Equatorial Guinea by strengthening the 
organizational capacity of its national partners and working 
closely with the ministries of health and sport. More than 
1,500 boys and girls graduated from the program in Equatorial 
Guinea in 2015. By the end of 2015, the total number of 
graduates supported by ExxonMobil was more than 76,000.

With the help of ExxonMobil, GRS was also able to find new 
opportunities in 2015 to educate young people on malaria 

prevention. GRS and its local partner, Youth Empowerment 
and Development Initiative (YEDI), partnered with Special 
Olympics to launch SKILLZ for Life. This new program 
uses the organization’s proven model for behavior change 
in public health among youth to educate children with 
intellectual disabilities. As part of the new partnership, YEDI 
and Special Olympics collaborated with GRS to offer malaria 
testing on World Malaria Day, which involved more than 
2,600 attendees, including many families and individuals with 
intellectual disabilities.

Chad and Cameroon 
For the past nine years, ExxonMobil has supported Jhpiego, 
an affiliate of Johns Hopkins University, in its efforts to fight 
malaria using global best practices in disease prevention and 
treatment. In 2015, the ExxonMobil Foundation provided 
funding to Jhpiego to provide quality malaria prevention 
and treatment for more than 700,000 people living along 
ExxonMobil’s 1,070-kilometer Chad-Cameroon pipeline.

Key activities included enhancing the quality and range of 
malaria-specific services for women in the parts of Chad and 
Cameroon where basic health care is limited; providing health 
education tailored to pregnant women; and procuring malaria 
prevention commodities like bed nets and anti-malarial drugs 
to ensure clinics in these areas are appropriately stocked. In 
2015, the program was responsible for training 150 health 
providers and 30 supervisors to better oversee and provide 
malaria prevention and treatment services, as well as helping 
159 community health volunteers educate communities about 
malaria at 71 health facilities. 

“For decades, malaria seemed to have the upper hand, 
claiming the lives of countless women and their families.  
But today, with leadership from governments and innovative 
partnerships like the one Jhpiego is privileged to have 
with the ExxonMobil Foundation in Chad and Cameroon — 
countries where few are willing to invest resources — we are 
seeing real progress in ending deaths from this preventable 
and treatable disease. As Jhpiego’s longest-standing 
corporate partner, ExxonMobil has been an incredible 
colleague in our fight to improve the health of vulnerable 
populations in low-resource countries. Their flexibility, 
commitment to data-driven impact and willingness to tackle 
new challenges head-on inspires us to push the envelope of 
what is considered possible and save lives.”

Leslie Mancuso 
President and CEO, Jhpiego

Children at the Federal Housing Estate Primary School in Lagos, Nigeria, participate in Grassroot Soccer’s mosquito net education program.

Community and social impact
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

70

Case 
Study

New country 
entry in 
Guyana for 
the Upstream 
business 

Kaieteur Falls in Guyana, located on the 
northern mainland of South America.  
When ExxonMobil discovers new resources in 
countries where we do not have a significant 
footprint, we take a diligent, respectful 
approach to starting activities. This is the  
case for our new operations in Guyana.

In May 2015, ExxonMobil announced an oil and gas discovery 
in the Stabroek block, located approximately 120 miles 
offshore Guyana. This marks the first significant discovery for 
the country. We initiated oil and gas exploration activities in 
Guyana in 2008, collecting and evaluating substantial 2-D and 
3-D seismic data that led to the company safely drilling its first 
exploration well.

ExxonMobil works in many countries around the world and  
in a range of physical and socioeconomic environments, 
including regions with established industry presence and 
those where oil and gas is a newly emerging sector. Every-
where we work, we are committed to conducting business 
in a manner that is compatible with the environmental and 
economic needs of the communities in which we operate.  
We work in ways that protect the safety, security and health  
of our workers, our customers and the public. 

71

Map of Guyana.

A Guyanese high school student studies rock properties during an ExxonMobil-funded science camp led by the Volunteer Youth Corps. 

Environmental, regulatory and  
socioeconomic considerations 
Guyana is an example of the collaborative and thoughtful 
approach we take when entering a new country. Before 
drilling the first well, we engaged the Guyanese government, 
communities and environmental and socioeconomic experts 
to gain an understanding of the potential interactions 
and impacts of our activities with the environment and 
communities surrounding our operations. 

Our early engagement included consultations with key 
government agencies and stakeholders, including the 
general public, industry associations and non-governmental 
organizations. We worked closely with these stakeholders 
to identify and address potential impacts in our plans and 
develop appropriate protective measures. For example, 
engagement with the local community was instrumental in 
conducting coastal sensitivity mapping. This mapping included 
environmental and socioeconomic features along the Guyana 
coast, such as locations of coastal communities, farms, 
fisheries and other sensitive areas.  

The effort also supports emergency response planning 
through identification of coastal access points and priority 
protection areas.

“Our studies found a high level of biodiversity that included 
potential for the presence of dozens of marine mammals, 
several kinds of sea turtles and sensitive habitats with three 
kinds of mangrove species. The northwest coast also includes 
Shell Beach, a protected area known to be a valuable turtle 
nesting habitat. Project plans take into account proximity to 
densely populated communities, commercial and artisanal 
fishing, public health and safety, cultural heritage sites and 
Amerindian indigenous populations. All of these areas were 
considered prior to beginning any drilling activities.” 

Kari Ehmling 
Environmental, regulatory and 
socioeconomic advisor

Engaging with the Guyanese government
ExxonMobil’s commitment to responsible development 
extends beyond our own operations. We are also committed 
to supporting Guyana in its effort to achieve sustainable 
environmental, social and economic development. To this 
end, we are working with a number of government agencies to 
understand stakeholder priorities and objectives for industry 
growth, including a vision for responsible industry oversight 
and regulation. 

ExxonMobil, in collaboration with the Guyana Geology 
and Mines Commission and the Guyana Environmental 
Protection Agency, has launched a technical workshop series 
covering topics such as oil and gas development, globally 
recognized best practices, international standards and 
environmental management technologies. Early engagement 
and continuous open dialogue have helped foster mutual 
understanding and effective relationships.

72

New country entry in Guyana for the Upstream businessexxonmobil.com/citizenshipTouchau, a village leader, and teachers of the indigenous Mainstay-Whyaka Amerindian Reservation receive training in STEM subjects through the Youth Challenge Guyana program.

Engaging with local communities
Before beginning exploration activities in a new country, 
ExxonMobil endeavors to establish meaningful relationships  
that benefit communities and the company for the long  
term. Based on consultation with stakeholders and an initial  
community needs assessment, our early entry support in  
Guyana primarily focused on promoting education, especially in 
the areas of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). 
Since 2012, we have supported the Volunteer Youth Corps, a 
nonprofit organization in Georgetown that engages ninth- and 
tenth-grade students in a variety of STEM after-school learning 
programs. The programs include practical lessons in physics, 
chemistry, integrated science and information technology, as 
well as a three-day science camp at a local environmental facility. 

For the past four years, we have also supported Youth 
Challenge Guyana, which provides STEM education training 
to teachers and science kits to primary school students. In 
2015, we expanded our education support to include a sports, 

literacy and leadership program in a traditionally Amerindian 
community as well as teacher training for a special needs 
school in Georgetown. 

We are still in the early stages of our exploration in Guyana, 
and will continue to evolve and tailor our support for the 
community to reflect the needs and long-term goals of 
the Guyanese people, as learned through our ongoing 
community engagement.

Local workforce and supplier development
Our vision of sustainability in Guyana is one in which 
stakeholders benefit from resource development today,  
while protecting and building opportunities for the future. 
To realize this vision, ExxonMobil will continue to safeguard 
people and the environment, support government endeavors 
to be responsible stewards of their natural and economic 
resources and invest in the community of which we have 
become a member. 

Everywhere we operate, we strive to develop employment 
opportunities for local workers and suppliers. Our local office 
in Guyana is staffed by more than 40 nationals performing 
work in various disciplines including accounting, office 
administration, procurement, public and government affairs, 
and security, safety, health and environment. ExxonMobil is 
working with local businesses to help identify opportunities to 
develop local service providers and a skilled workforce.

As we study the commercial viability of the discovered resource 
and build our presence in Guyana, we remain committed to 
responsible corporate citizenship by engaging with the local 
government and communities, evaluating and developing a 
local workforce and supplier base, and protecting biodiversity 
by implementing responsible environmental standards and 
sound management practices. 

73

New country entry in Guyana for the Upstream businessexxonmobil.com/citizenshipLocal development 
and supply chain 
management

Hilda Wagia, instrumentation technician 
trainee, working in the Hides gas 
conditioning plant in Papua New Guinea.  
We have a responsibility to help advance 
economic development for the areas in  
which we operate. 

•  As we develop oil and gas resources to meet the world’s 
growing energy needs, we work to contribute to the 
economic and social development of the countries in 
which we operate. We also seek to ensure a healthy supply 
chain, one that respects human rights and the environment 
while creating opportunities for economic growth in the 
communities where we conduct business. ExxonMobil’s 
local content and supply chain management strategies are 
designed to deliver lasting and shared value to host countries, 
local communities and our business. We do this by employing 
systematic and clearly defined processes, templates and 
global best practices to integrate local development into 
overall project planning and execution.

Local economic growth and 
development

We believe local content — the added value brought to 
a host nation through the activities of the oil and gas 
industry — provides shared value to ExxonMobil and to 
the communities in which we operate, ensuring local 
participation is integrated into our daily processes. We align 
our goals with those of our partners to focus on establishing 
long-term economic benefits. We develop a local content 
plan specific to each country or area, taking into account 
social and economic conditions, the nature of the project 
and the community’s needs.

Our efforts focus on employing and training the local 
workforce, supporting local suppliers and service providers, 
and improving the livelihoods of community members. This 
multi-tiered approach, combined with our strategic community 
investments, allows us to provide sustainable economic 
benefits, both direct and indirect, to the local communities 
where we operate. For additional information on our approach 
to community investments, see page 64. 

As part of ExxonMobil’s commitment to operational 
excellence, we participate in organizations and initiatives 
that improve local content management around the world. 
We are active participants in IPIECA, the global oil and gas 
industry association for environmental and social issues, 
and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 

Kanu Okechukwu, a production operator for Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited, opens a manual valve to supply compressed air to 
equipment at the Erha North phase two project in Nigeria.

Development (OECD). In 2015, we contributed to IPIECA’s 
local content task force and assisted in the development of 
IPIECA’s Local Content: A Guidance Document for the Oil 
and Gas Industry and the OECD’s Framework on Public-
Private Collaboration for Shared Resource-Based Value 
Creation from Extractive Projects. Both of these documents 
were published in 2016. 

Local hiring and training
We believe we have a responsibility to create local 
employment opportunities to help advance economic 
development and contribute to the continuity of our 
operations. As part of our effort to enhance the long-term 
capability of local workforces, we provide locally hired 
individuals with opportunities to develop technical and 
leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their 
careers, including after their work on ExxonMobil projects. 
We continued to make progress in hiring, developing and 
retaining host country nationals in 2015.

For example:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

In Angola, 82 percent of our personnel are Angolan, of 
whom 16 percent are in supervisory or managerial positions.

In Chad, 94 percent of our personnel are Chadian; 72 percent 
of supervisory or managerial positions are held by Chadians.

In Equatorial Guinea, nearly 75 percent of our personnel  
are Equatoguinean, of whom 13 percent are in supervisory 
or managerial positions.

In Indonesia, 87 percent of our personnel are  
Indonesian; local staff hold 83 percent of supervisory  
or managerial positions.

In Nigeria, 94 percent of our personnel are Nigerian;  
21 percent of local staff are in supervisory or  
managerial positions.

Local development and supply chain management
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

75

Up Close: 
Partnering with the Institute 
of International Education to 
invest in local workforces  

ExxonMobil is committed to providing long-term strategic 
investments related to the education and professional 
development of local workers, targeting various types of 
positions and levels. One of our key partners in developing 
local individuals for senior management positions is the 
Institute of International Education (IIE). IIE is a private, 
not-for-profit organization that creates programs of study 
and training for students, educators and professionals from 
all sectors. We have partnered with IIE since 2006 to provide 
academic scholarships to motivated students in Angola, 
Indonesia, the Middle East, North Africa, Romania and Russia. 

To date, ExxonMobil scholarships have supported the 
educational and cultural development of 208 scholars in  
13 countries. Scholarship recipients have pursued  
36 different fields of study, and of those students who  
have graduated, 40 are currently employed by ExxonMobil. 

Hakima Taoufiq, native to Rabat, Morocco, is one such 
student. Hakima earned her MBA from Tulane University in 
New Orleans, Louisiana, where she graduated first in her 
class in 2011. After graduation, Hakima joined ExxonMobil 
as a senior business analyst supporting the power and gas 
services group. Hakima is currently a senior business analyst 
supporting the liquefied natural gas group in Houston.

From 2014 to 2015, Hakima served as the supply and logistics 
coordinator responsible for the reliable and optimal supply of 
more than 15 terminals across the midwestern United States, 
which translates to more than 120,000 barrels per day of 
gasoline, distillate and biofuel. 

“IIE opened doors I did not know existed. Through this 
program, IIE enabled me to define the sky as the limit and a 
world beyond my hometown as a playing field. It solved the 
major stumbling block of financing my education — since a 
loan was never an option where I came from. IIE gave me 
the wings to choose where, how and what I wanted to study, 
instead of defaulting to what was an available and female-
appropriate career path back home.”

Hakima Taoufiq 
Senior analyst

Our ability to hire locally depends on the availability of 
appropriately qualified individuals. We actively work to 
overcome challenges related to developing and retaining a 
local workforce, identifying and attracting skilled labor, and 
matching workforce skills with business requirements. For 
example, as economic activity in a particular area increases, 
the demand for local skilled workers also increases, which 
can result in a shortage of available workers. 

We address such situations by supporting education and 
training initiatives aimed at increasing the pool of individuals 
from which we can recruit. Training programs include the 
provision of information on ethical business conduct, health 
and safety, management skills and fundamentals of the oil 
and gas industry, as well as relevant technical and vocational 
skills such as welding, construction and equipment operation. 

To help develop the skills of locally hired individuals, we place 
experienced ExxonMobil expatriates — individuals working in 
a country other than their country of permanent residence — 
in countries where they can share their expertise and mentor 
local workers for operational and leadership roles. Additionally, 
a large number of local workers are placed in developmental 
assignments at ExxonMobil facilities around the world as a 
way to broaden their experience and accelerate their learning 
with the goal that when they return home, they will use and 
share this knowledge in their home countries’ operations.

For example, Andreia Prata, a local hire in Angola, was placed 
on an assignment in the United States from 2010 to 2013. 
While in the United States, Andreia occupied several roles, 
including a senior planning and reporting analyst supporting 
the Downstream business and a project procurement associate 

Hakima Tauofiq, senior analyst, joined ExxonMobil following her studies 
with the Institute of International Education at Tulane University.

supporting Upstream drilling and exploration. After this 
experience, Andreia returned to Angola where she is currently 
working as the area procurement manager overseeing 
acquisitions, warehousing and payables in the country. 

“My time in the United States contributed to both my 
professional development and personal maturity. I was able 
to gain a deeper understanding of ExxonMobil’s global 
operations as well as expand my professional network, both 
of which helped prepare me for my management role today.” 

Andreia Prata 
Area procurement manager, Angola

Local development and supply chain management
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

76

Up Close: 
Local contractor development 
in Nigeria 

The Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited Erha 
North project started production in September 2015, five 
months ahead of the planned February 2016 start date. The 
project, which is estimated to produce an additional 165 million 
barrels annually from the previously in-production Erha North 
field, was completed with more than 6 million man-hours 
in-country without a lost-time incident, and the final cost was 
$400 million under budget. 

The overall success of this project was in part due to strong 
performance by the local Nigerian suppliers and contractors 
that ExxonMobil employed, as well as a robust local content 
plan. The project team collaborated early in the project process 
with the Nigeria Content Management Board to identify local 
content opportunities to increase local supplier participation. 
The team also participated in regular communication with 
key stakeholders, including the Nigerian National Petroleum 
Corporation, co-venture partners, technical teams and 
suppliers to ensure strategic alignment and stay on schedule. 

For example, more than 130 Nigerians were trained in 
various fields such as project engineering, scaffolding and 
fabrication, and 52 percent of trainees are now working full 
time on ExxonMobil projects. We also worked with several 
Nigerian companies to obtain necessary materials for the 
project, including sub-structures, pipes and mud mats. 
Throughout the project, ExxonMobil held multiple workshops 
with suppliers to help ensure that suppliers understood and 
complied with ExxonMobil’s supplier standards. 

In 2015, ExxonMobil was recognized for its extraordinary 
local content program in Nigeria as the Best Company in 
Local Content in Nigeria by Businessday, one of Nigeria’s 
most respected business newspapers. The award further 
recognizes ExxonMobil’s investments in Nigeria and 
the positive economic impact that our business has on 
communities where we operate. 

“The Erha North project demonstrates ExxonMobil’s disciplined 
management approach and expertise, and leveraged strong 
performance from Nigerian contractors, which accounted 
for more than $2 billion of project investment for goods and 
services, including subsea equipment, facilities and offshore 
installation. These contracts will bring direct and indirect 
benefits to the Nigerian economy through project spending 
and employment, consistent with project objectives.”

Nolan O’Neal 
Lead country manager, Nigeria 

We operate several business support centers (BSC) that offer 
services to our global operations. We have 10,000 people 
working in centers around the world, including in Argentina, 
Czech Republic, Hungary and Thailand. These centers support 
our operations with a broad range of services, including 
financial, IT and customer services, and provide jobs and 
business opportunities for the communities in which they 
are located. In December 2015, ExxonMobil held an opening 
ceremony for a new BSC in Bengaluru, India. One of the 
purposes of this office is to leverage the significant pool of 
technical talent in India. To date, there are more than 250 locally 
hired individuals working at the BSC, half of whom are women. 

Local supplier development 
ExxonMobil works with a range of stakeholders, including 
host country governments, non-governmental organizations 
(NGOs) and local communities to develop local vendors 
for the supply of goods and services. We seek to build and 
maintain a qualified and globally competitive supply chain 
wherever we operate. Our goal is to nurture entrepreneurship 
and foster competitive businesses capable of contributing to 
the sustainable economic progress of host countries.

Personnel in Nigeria work with cargo barges and installation vessels 
belonging to a local supplier.

From left: Tom Walters, president of ExxonMobil Production Company; 
Alan Kelly, president of ExxonMobil Fuels, Lubricants and Specialties 
Marketing; and Bryan Milton, president of ExxonMobil Global Services 
Company celebrate the opening of the new business support center in 
Bengaluru, India.

Local development and supply chain management
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

77

 
In order to be a supplier for ExxonMobil, a local vendor 
must be able to meet our safety, technical, environmental 
and human rights expectations and requirements. In some 
of the more remote locations where we operate, we face 
difficulties with identifying qualified local suppliers due to 
limited local capacity. ExxonMobil routinely assists suppliers 
in understanding our requirements, developing business 
processes and procedures and increasing their technical skills 
to become more competitive. Our long-term goal is to develop 
globally competitive suppliers. When a supplier is unsuccessful 
in competing for work with us, we provide them with advice 
and guidance on how to become better positioned for future 
opportunities with ExxonMobil or other companies.  

In October 2015, we held a workshop in Sakhalin, Russia, to 
educate potential contractors about our prequalification and 
bidding processes. The workshop included presentations 
by ExxonMobil personnel as well as roundtable interviews 
with local companies. In addition, participants received 
training on our safety, health and environmental expectations 
and requirements, and on how to effectively complete 
prequalification documents. In total, 26 companies from 
both Sakhalin Island and Russia’s mainland attended, and we 
identified a number of potential opportunities for business 
between ExxonMobil and these contractors.

Since 2013, ExxonMobil Cepu Limited (EMCL) has partnered 
with local and national NGOs to offer training and 
capacity-building programs to local communities in the Banyu 
Urip project area on the island of Java in Indonesia. As part of 
this initiative, in 2015, EMCL collaborated with the Bina Swadaya 
Foundation and the local community to establish a new learning 
center. The center is intended to help build local capacity by 
assisting 550 local residents in Bojonegoro and Tuban regarding 
product development, financial management and business 
mentoring. In addition, the learning center will provide long-
term marketing and supply chain opportunities that will help 
the community develop diversified businesses for long-term 
sustainable growth. The learning center has already helped the 
community identify business opportunities with various buyers 
around key commodities, including rice, goats, koi fish and water 
spinach seeds. 

To help promote safety among local suppliers, we implemented 
a driver training program for local driver personnel in Ivory 

Coast in 2015. The program was based on an earlier initiative 
in Madagascar, where ExxonMobil-employed drivers drove 
approximately 100,000 kilometers without any accidents or 
incidents. The goal of the training is to provide local drivers with 
practical skills as well as tools to respond to and mitigate driving 
risks. The extensive driver training includes a two-day defensive 
driving course, a first aid and passenger safety course and 
regular driver meetings to share lessons learned. The training 
program has helped the Ivory Coast venture office develop a 
local supply base while simultaneously improving the safety 
performance of our operations. 

Supply chain management

Because our global reach expands well beyond our fence line, 
we know the success of our operations and reputation are 
influenced by those who support our operations beyond the 

workplace sites. ExxonMobil works with more than 165,000 
suppliers of goods and services, and we develop relationships 
with suppliers that uphold our commitment to safety, the 
environment and human rights. We support supplier efforts 
for continuous improvement in these areas.

When surveying the market for potential suppliers, 
ExxonMobil seeks suppliers that can meet our safety and 
operational requirements. Our procurement staff is trained to 
conduct supplier prequalification assessments, which include  
anti-corruption due diligence when appropriate. Additionally, 
we seek out local suppliers or suppliers from historically 
underrepresented groups including, but not limited to, 
women, minorities and indigenous peoples. 

ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and  
we expect the same of our contractors and suppliers.  

Local personnel Luis Almeida and Diwalter Fortunado inspect equipment at our Kizomba project in Angola.

Local development and supply chain management
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

78

Up Close: 
Meet the member event in 
Mexico City

At ExxonMobil, we strive to assist women business owners 
in finding opportunities to connect with our various business 
lines. Since 2011, the ExxonMobil Foundation has supported 
WEConnect International, an organization that empowers 
women business owners to access global supply chains. In 
November 2015, ExxonMobil Mexico hosted a “meet the 
member” event for women suppliers that are part of  
WEConnect’s Mexico chapter. This one-day workshop 
afforded women business owners the opportunity to 
network with ExxonMobil representatives from our various 

businesses and service lines. The event included interactive 
workshops and one-on-one meetings between the women 
and ExxonMobil representatives as well as an overview of 
ExxonMobil’s supplier diversity strategy and goals. 

In total, 60 women business owners and ExxonMobil 
personnel attended the event. To date, the meet the member 
event resulted in three new business opportunities for 
women-owned businesses in Mexico. These opportunities 
included catering services for the ExxonMobil venture office, 
design and event planning services for public and government 
affairs, and a supplier of hand sanitizer for medicine and 
occupational health. We expect new opportunities to emerge 
as we continue our efforts to develop women-owned 
suppliers in Mexico. 

Women in Mexico City participate in a meet the member event.

In 2014, we conducted a pilot supplier human rights assess-
ment program. In 2015, we tailored our efforts and engaged 
a selected group of key suppliers across various commod-
ities. This process allowed us to gauge the level of human 
rights awareness among suppliers, as well as to gain a better 
understanding of how human rights practices, training and 
grievance mechanisms are used.

To improve social performance along the supply chain, in 2016 
we will continue to use learnings from our supplier awareness 
assessments to provide key inputs to the tools we are 
developing. For example, we recently developed and published 
ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of guidelines that 
outlines our expectations of contractors and suppliers inclusive 
of human rights. These Expectations include references to key 
international human rights frameworks such as the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work. We believe that by increasing our suppliers’ awareness 
of human rights, we can facilitate improvement in their own 
supply chains, creating a wider scope of positive impact and 
influence. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s positions 
and activities on human rights, see page 60. 

ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations

In addition to respecting human rights, we require that all 
of our suppliers maintain our environmental performance 
standards. For example, ExxonMobil Nigeria conducts site 
visits at its local contractors’ sites and performs environmental 
inspections as a way to monitor supplier environmental 
performance. If a concern is identified, ExxonMobil will meet 
with that contractor’s leadership to provide feedback and 
assist in correcting the issue. In addition, expectations for our 
suppliers about environmental performance are included in 
the Supplier Expectations. 

Promoting supplier diversity 
ExxonMobil values its diverse workforce and works to 
promote a diverse supply chain. In the United States, we 
have cultivated diversity across our supply chain through our 
supplier diversity program for more than 40 years. For the 
past 15 years, we have tracked our annual spending with 
minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs). 
In 2008, we began to consider the full reach of our supply 
chain, and not just our direct spending, by making efforts to 
encourage and track the progress of our primary suppliers in 
the development and use of MWBEs. We refer to this as our 
Tier 2 program.

As an example of our Tier 2 efforts, in 2015 the ExxonMobil 
Baytown facility sponsored a “meet and greet” session that 
attracted more than 75 attendees in an effort to provide 
diverse suppliers with an opportunity to engage with 
primary suppliers. As a result of this event, more than 25 
diverse suppliers secured business contracts with a variety of 
primary suppliers. We believe this approach helps ensure the 
sustainability of our supplier diversity program by encouraging 
our primary suppliers to join in our efforts. 

As part of our supplier diversity efforts, we take steps to 
encourage our suppliers to develop their own supplier diver-
sity programs. We have started including discussions of best 
practices for supplier diversity in regular supplier relationship 
management meetings with our key suppliers. As a result 
of this engagement, several suppliers are now tracking and 
reporting their spending with diverse suppliers as part of their 
supplier stewardship. 

We work closely with the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council (WBENC) to help identify and 
develop relationships with certified diverse suppliers in the 
United States. 

Local development and supply chain management
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

79

ExxonMobil spending 
with U.S. diverse suppliers1 

Millions of dollars

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

$576

$582

$615

$887

$841

$1,068

$1,001

$1,024

$1,108

$1,064

Since 2011, we have consistently spent over $1 billion a year on minority- and 
women-owned business enterprises in the United States. In 2015, we met our 
target by spending $1,064 billion on diverse suppliers in the United States with 
the set of diverse classifications listed below. 

1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending).
 Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses; 
 women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and 
 transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled 
 veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. 

ExxonMobil is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier 
diversity efforts. WBENC named ExxonMobil among 
America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises 
in 2015. This national award recognizes corporations with 
world-class programs and leadership in supplier diversity. In 
addition, at the NMSDC National Conference, ExxonMobil 
was awarded the Gazelle Company Award for a substantial 
increase in spending with minority-owned suppliers.

National Minority Supplier Development Council

Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 

In 2010, we set a goal to spend $1 billion annually on MWBEs 
in the United States by 2012. We met this goal in 2011 
and have maintained a level of spend with minority- and 
women-owned suppliers greater than $1 billion per year for 
the past four years.  

In 2015, we met our target of $1 billion in spending with 
diverse suppliers in the United States, with the following 
classifications: minority-owned businesses; women-owned 
businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- 
and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned 
businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; 
and businesses owned by people with disabilities. Suppliers 
from these groups have contributed to our total diverse 
spending in order to ensure a more inclusive supply chain. 
To complement this effort, our supplier diversity database 
allows suppliers from traditionally underrepresented groups 
in the United States to register an interest in being an 
ExxonMobil supplier. 

Supplier diversity database

Our supplier diversity program is steadily expanding into 
the international arena. In total, we spent $277 million with 
women-, indigenous- and other minority-owned businesses 
in select areas outside the United States in 2015. We continue 
to partner with WEConnect International to increase the 
participation of women-owned businesses in our supply 
chain around the world. In addition to providing financial 
support, we have participated in WEConnect International 
advisory councils in Brazil, Canada, Europe, India, Mexico, 
Nigeria, Peru and South Africa. 

In May 2015, ExxonMobil participated in the first WEConnect 
International Exhibition and Matchmaker event to help provide 
networking opportunities for women business owners drawn 
from the 36 states in Nigeria. At this event, ExxonMobil 
Upstream companies in Nigeria received two awards 
recognizing our support of WEConnect supplier diversity 
programs. One award was for contributing to the growth of 
WEConnect and recognized the success of a “meet the buyer” 
event that was sponsored by ExxonMobil and attended 

by representatives from more than 300 women-owned 
businesses in Nigeria. At this event, attendees received 
training on how to conduct business with multinational 
programs and on ExxonMobil Foundation programs. The 
second award was for distinguished corporate sponsorship of 
WEConnect and our contributions toward inclusive economic 
growth in Nigeria. The event contributed to an increase in 
the number of registered suppliers and business contracts 
awarded in Nigeria. In 2015, ExxonMobil spending with 
women-owned businesses in Nigeria was $16.8 million,  
an increase of 6.3 percent from 2014.  

WEConnect International

ExxonMobil supports WEConnect supplier diversity programs in Nigeria. 

Local development and supply chain management
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

80

 
 
 
 
 
Corporate 
governance

ExxonMobil headquarters in Irving, Texas. 
A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core 
value of our corporate culture.

Good governance is essential to ensuring the long-term 
viability of our business, promoting economic development of 
the communities where we operate and responsibly providing 
the energy needed to power the world’s progress. ExxonMobil 
employs a variety of policies and processes to uphold good 
corporate governance, avoid corruption and promote trans-
parency underpinned by a majority independent board of 
directors that provides oversight on our corporation’s affairs.

Ethics and integrity

For ExxonMobil, upholding the highest ethical standards of 
business conduct is critical to maintaining our global license to 
operate. A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core value 
of our corporate culture. All employees, officers, directors 
and those working on our behalf are required to comply with 
all applicable laws, including U.S. anti-corruption, anti-trust, 
anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls laws, as well 
as laws of other countries applicable to our business. 

Standards of Business Conduct
Our Standards of Business Conduct, adopted and admin-
istered by the board of directors, ensure we operate at the 
highest level of operational integrity by setting the ethical 
conduct expectations of our corporation and majority-owned 
subsidiaries. These Standards cover a range of topics including 
labor, the environment and anti-corruption. While ExxonMobil 
is not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global  
Compact, its values represent key elements of our Standards. 

To establish a consistent understanding of our ethical 
standards of business integrity, all ExxonMobil employees 
receive training on our Standards of Business Conduct every 
four years, including a detailed review of the company’s ethics, 
anti-trust, anti-corruption and gifts and entertainment policies. 

Employees are required to read the Standards annually and 
confirm compliance. In addition to these business practice reviews, 
regular training is provided on anti-boycott, trade sanctions and 
export controls for employees with relevant job functions. No 
one has authority to make exceptions or grant waivers to the 
Standards. Employees are subject to disciplinary action, up to and 
including termination, for violations of our policies.

Standards of Business Conduct

Internal audits
We conduct regular internal audits and self-assessments 
to help ensure the rigorous implementation of our control 
systems and the Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s 
internal team of more than 200 auditors annually reviews 
approximately one-third of the corporation’s operations, 
including detailed assessments of facilities, business units, 
personnel and records. We thoroughly investigate any 
suspected acts of noncompliance with the Standards across 
all functions of the company. 

Systems and practices for reporting violations
ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask 
questions, voice concerns and report any suspected violations 
of company policies. In addition to our open-door communi-
cation procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mech-
anisms for reporting, including a 24-hour phone number and 
a mailing address. Employees can also report violations during 
supervisory reviews. Confidentiality is respected throughout 
the process, subject to legal requirements; retaliation against 
any employee is strictly prohibited. 

As part of our commitment to reinforcing ethics and high 
standards of business conduct, a hotline steering committee 
comprising personnel from security, internal audit, law and 
human resources reviews reports of suspected violations. 
The board audit committee receives a quarterly report that 
summarizes the steering committee’s findings, including 
any violations or major issues. Confirmed violations lead to 
disciplinary actions, up to and including dismissal. 

Anti-corruption efforts
We seek to maintain the highest anti-corruption compliance 
in all aspects of our operations. Our Anti-Corruption Legal 
Compliance Guide outlines ExxonMobil’s commitment to 
comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), 
the United Kingdom Bribery Act and global anti-corruption 
standards in our business relationships. The Guide also 
describes elements of the corporation’s anti-corruption 
compliance program. To ensure continued relevance and 
accuracy, ExxonMobil reviews the Guide annually and provides 
updates as needed. 

ExxonMobil employees and contractors acting on our behalf 
are prohibited from making payments to or engaging in 

transactions with government officials that improperly 
influence the performance of their official duties. Our standard 
language for procurement contracts includes requirements 
to keep accurate books and records, and, where appropriate, 
contains specific anti-bribery commitments. 

Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide

Because we operate in parts of the world with changing 
political and regulatory climates, we believe it is imperative 
to train our employees on our anti-trust and anti-corruption 
policies. ExxonMobil’s law department conducts comprehensive 
annual training sessions for employees on anti-trust and 
anti-corruption compliance. In 2015, approximately 19,000 
employees participated in anti-corruption training. Employees 
in relevant job functions receive in-person training soon 
after entering their positions and every year thereafter. Other 
managers and professional employees receive training every 
two years. We monitor legal and regulatory developments 
and advise employees as appropriate. To ensure continuous 
improvement, we evaluate the effectiveness of our compliance 
program regularly. 

Transparency
For years, ExxonMobil has supported multi-stakeholder 
engagement in countries around the world for the purpose 
of increasing transparency of government revenues from 
the extractive industries. Our efforts to promote revenue 
transparency have helped reduce corruption, improve 
government accountability and promote greater economic 
stability worldwide. We believe the most successful 
transparency initiatives are those that ensure each relevant 
public, private and societal entity is fully engaged and 
properly represented. Successful initiatives must respect 
national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every 
company in all relevant sectors.

We continually monitor and participate in public policy 
and regulatory developments with respect to transparency 
initiatives. In 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) published a proposed rule for global 
government payment reporting as required by the Dodd-Frank 
Act. A U.S. District Court vacated the initial SEC rules in 
2013, as they were deemed to cause potential commercial 

Corporate governance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

82

and competitive harm to U.S. companies. The American 
Petroleum Institute (API), of which ExxonMobil is a member, 
submitted recommendations to the SEC outlining a potential 
new approach to transparency reporting that focuses on 
government receipts by resource type and production method 
and that protects companies from disclosing commercially 
sensitive information. The recommendations would also 
give citizens the information they need to determine their 
government’s resource revenues. 

In July 2013, the European Union (EU) approved a revised 
accounting directive that mandates government payment 
reporting. The United Kingdom implemented its reporting 
rule in 2015, and more EU member states are expected to do 
so this year. We remain concerned about the new EU rules, 
which impose a fragmented approach that will not give civil 
society a means to compile and analyze government revenue 
or give companies protection from disclosing commercially 
sensitive information. Nevertheless, we are preparing data 
gathering, verification and reporting systems and processes to 
comply with new requirements as the directive is transposed 
into local law in each EU member state.

The SEC published a revised draft payment disclosure rule on 
December 11, 2015, which largely adopts the EU model rather 
than the approach API is advocating. We oppose the SEC’s 
new proposed rule on the same grounds of our opposition 
to its 2012 proposed rule and continue to encourage the 
adoption of a rule that generates data that host country 
citizens can access and use while simultaneously protecting 
companies from competitive harm. 

A global program that encourages transparency and 
collaboration among governments, companies, civil 
society and financial institutions is the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI). This initiative is dedicated to 
strengthening governance by improving transparency and 
accountability in the extractives sector. Companies and 
governments participating in EITI separately report payments 
and revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any 
differences between the totals and publish validated total 
government revenues. 

Since EITI’s inception more than a decade ago, ExxonMobil 
has had an active role at both the secretariat and country 
levels. An ExxonMobil representative has served on the EITI 
board as either a primary or alternate member since it began. 
In 2013, the program released an expanded EITI Standard 
outlining how countries can implement the EITI. The Standard 
requires commitment from all participants as stated in 
Principle 5: “We underline the importance of transparency by 
governments and companies in the extractive industries  
and the need to enhance public financial management  
and accountability.” 

Our efforts in 2015 focused on helping the EITI member 
countries where we operate comply with expanded 
requirements of the 2013 Standard. ExxonMobil supports the 
EITI application, validation and implementation processes in 20 
countries, and we are working with governments in a number 
of other countries including Equatorial Guinea and Mexico, 
which are considering joining EITI. There are currently about 50 
countries that are compliant members or have been accepted 
as candidates to begin reporting under the EITI Standard. 

Board of directors

ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides independent over-
sight of the corporation’s affairs. All directors are required to 
stand for election at our annual meeting of shareholders. At 
year-end 2015, 11 of 12 directors, including the presiding 
director and all members of the audit, compensation, public 
issues and contributions, and board affairs committees, 
were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange 
guidelines. In 2015, the board met 11 times, including a board 
visit to Papua New Guinea to learn more about our Upstream 
activities and practices in that area. For more information 
about that visit, see the Up Close on the following page. 

Corporate citizenship topics fall under the purview of the public 
issues and contributions committee (PICC), the board affairs 
committee and the compensation committee, and are routinely 
reviewed at board committee meetings. While risk oversight 
is the responsibility of the entire board, committees help the 
board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. 

For example, the PICC is charged, among other duties, 
with reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, 
programs and practices with respect to the environment. 
The committee hears reports from operating units on 
environmental activities and also visits operating sites to 
observe and comment on current practices. The entire board 
receives briefings by internal experts on environmental 
stewardship and climate change.

Board leadership structure
Each year, board members select an independent director 
to serve as the presiding director, with the expectation that 
person will serve for a minimum of two years. The presiding 
director sets the agenda and chairs executive sessions of the 
independent directors and coordinates with the chairman 
on the agenda for meetings of the full board. At this time, 
the board believes the interests of shareholders are best 
served through a leadership model that combines the roles 
of chairman of the board and chief executive officer (CEO). 
With more than 40 years of service in both domestic and 
international positions with the company, our current CEO 
possesses in-depth knowledge of the corporation and 
the challenges of an evolving energy industry. For more 
information about our board structure, visit the corporate 
governance section of our website.

Corporate governance

Board selection process
Maintaining a diverse board in regard to gender, race, 
geography, experience and fields of expertise is important for 
the company to succeed in a globalized market. The board 
affairs committee recommends board of director candidates 
in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection of 
Non-Employee Directors, and diversity is a key consideration. 

Corporate governance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

83

Up Close: 
Board visit to Papua New 
Guinea LNG operations

In April 2014, ExxonMobil began liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
production in Papua New Guinea (PNG), an oceanic country 
in the southwestern Pacific Ocean that occupies the eastern 
half of the island of New Guinea and offshore Melanesia 
islands. Current operations include gas production wells and 
a processing plant in the highlands; LNG production and 
shipping facilities on the south coast; and more than 500 miles 
of pipeline. Over the life of the PNG LNG project, ExxonMobil 
expects to produce and sell more than 9 trillion cubic feet of gas.

In June 2015, ExxonMobil directors and executives visited 
the PNG LNG operations to view how ExxonMobil’s holistic 
approach to managing key sustainability and community 
issues has been successfully implemented in this unique area. 
The visit encompassed an overview of the mountainside gas 
wells and the Hides gas processing plant, as well as a review 
of the pipeline that transports treated gas from the highlands 
to the LNG plant. The visit also included a tour of the LNG 
production and shipping facility, during which board members 
witnessed an LNG ship preparing for departure. 

Through the visit, the board observed that the transition from 
construction phase to production is complete and appropriate 
environmental monitoring programs have been established. 
For example, the board saw that revegetation of our 

construction sites is progressing well. As part of ExxonMobil’s 
biodiversity strategy in PNG, local and international scientific 
research organizations specializing in tropical forest research 
are conducting regular biodiversity monitoring to ensure 
biodiversity values of the upstream area are retained. During 
the project’s onshore construction, 16 plant and 77 animal 
species new to science were identified.

In addition to learning more about ExxonMobil’s Upstream 
operations in that area, the board members had an opportunity 
to engage with the PNG community through presentations 
by local employees and villagers, as well as a meeting with the 
prime minister and the first lady of PNG.  

ExxonMobil directors and executives tour our liquefied natural gas operations in Papua New Guinea.

CEO Rex Tillerson meets with local workers at our Papua New Guinea operations. 

ExxonMobil directors and executives at our Papua New Guinea liquefied natural gas operations. 

Corporate governance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

84

Supported by an independent executive search firm, the board 
affairs committee looks for highly qualified non-employee 
candidates with demonstrated leadership, competency and a 
commitment to represent the interests of our shareholders. 
Other desirable qualities include:

•  Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a  

significant company or organization with responsibilities  
for global operations;

•  Financial expertise;

•  Experience on one or more boards of significant public 

organizations or non-governmental organizations (NGOs); 
and

•  Expertise resulting from significant professional or academi-

cally based scientific or research activities.

In 2015, 40 percent of the board’s independent directors 
were female, African-American or from outside the United 
States. Four of the seven most recent additions to the board 
demonstrate this diversity. Also in 2015, Doug Oberhelman 
joined the board following election by shareholders. Currently, 
the ExxonMobil board stands at 13 directors, 11 of whom are 
non-employee directors; an additional independent director 
candidate has been nominated for election in the 2016 proxy 
statement. We describe current director qualifications in our 
proxy statement. 

2016 proxy statement

Board committees overview

program. Compensation for executives is highly differentiated, 
based on a rigorous annual individual performance assessment 
that takes into account several key factors, including results 
in the areas of safety, security, health and environmental 
performance, corporate governance, diversity and other 
goals pertinent to the financial and operating performance 
of the company. ExxonMobil executives understand their 
compensation reflects how effectively they manage risk and 
contribute to operations integrity and sustainable growth in 
shareholder value.  

ExxonMobil’s compensation committee carefully considers 
the feedback on executive compensation we receive from 
our shareholders, some of whom have held ExxonMobil stock 
for more than a decade. During the 2015 proxy season, the 
advisory vote on executive compensation received 90.1 percent 
of votes “for” the company’s program as outlined. During 
our extensive dialogue with shareholders, we also received 
positive feedback on our newly disclosed performance award 
matrix, which details how industry-leading operating and 
financial results over investment lead times of the business are 
linked to the level of individual bonus and stock-based awards.

Additionally, our stock-based awards have long holding periods, 
i.e., for executive officers 50 percent vests in five years and the 
other 50 percent vests in 10 years from grant date or retirement, 
whichever is later. Unvested stock awards are not accelerated 
upon retirement and remain at risk of forfeiture. These features 
of the compensation program provide executives with a strong 
incentive to maintain a sharp focus on operations integrity, 
which in turn protects the safety and security of our employees, 
the communities and environments in which we operate. For 
more details on our executive compensation program, see 
ExxonMobil’s 2016 proxy statement.

Executive compensation and strategic advantage
ExxonMobil’s business model is reflective of a capital-intensive 
industry, requiring long investment lead times and a significant 
focus on risk management. The structure of our compensation 
program fully supports this business model and is designed as 
such that it aligns the interests of our executives with those of 
our long-term shareholders.

Our most senior executives — including the CEO, named 
executive officers and more than 1,000 other executives in 
the United States — participate in a common compensation 

Communicating with directors
Constructive engagement allows us to identify areas of oppor-
tunity and improvement throughout our business. ExxonMobil’s 
directors encourage open and transparent communication 
on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals can email our 
non-employee directors through the corporate governance 
page of our website or send written correspondence in care of 
the secretary of the corporation. ExxonMobil employees work 
with directors as appropriate in responding to these letters and 
emails. Directors will sometimes request that senior managers 
meet with shareholders to address particular topics.

Shareholder relations

We value the dialogue we have with our shareholders on 
a variety of governance, social and environmental topics 
throughout the year. Management considers suggestions 
and engages with shareholders as appropriate. Our direct 
engagement with shareholders provides an effective forum to 
address issues, share relevant information and viewpoints, and 
align on the facts. In 2015, we had 42 shareholder dialogues 
with institutional investors, pension funds, and labor, religious, 
and NGO organizations. These dialogues have generally 
allowed us to reach common ground with our shareholders, 
in some cases avoiding the need for more formal shareholder 
proposals at the annual shareholders meeting.

At the corporation’s 2015 annual meeting, shareholders 
owning approximately 3.5 billion — or nearly 84 percent — of 
outstanding shares were represented. In 2015, shareholders 
voted on directors, independent auditors, executive compen-
sation and eight shareholder proposals. The summary table 
below shows the 2015 proxy vote results.

We seek to report transparently on issues important to our 
shareholders. The Corporate Citizenship Report, Outlook 
for Energy and ExxonMobil’s website help communicate 
the company’s strategic outlook, performance and risk 

2015 proxy vote summary

Percent vote for1

Proxy item

1.  Election of directors (average)2
2.  Ratification of independent auditors2
3.  Advisory vote on executive compensation2
4.  Independent chairman
5.  Proxy access bylaw3  
6.  Climate expert on board3  
7.  Board quota for women3 
8.  Report on compensation for women3 
9.  Report on lobbying  
10.  Greenhouse gas emissions goals 
11.  Report on hydraulic fracturing    

2015

97.1
99.1
90.1
33.8
49.4
21.0
4.3
5.8
21.0
9.6
24.9

1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals.
2Proposals submitted by the board.
3First-year proposal.  

Corporate governance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

85

 
ExxonMobil’s management committee. From left: Mark Albers, senior vice president; Andy Swiger, principal financial officer and senior vice president; Darren Woods, president and board member; Rex Tillerson, 
chairman and CEO; Jack Williams, senior vice president; Mike Dolan, senior vice president.

management practices. In some cases, we publish additional 
reports to provide further information about certain issues. In 
response to our shareholder proposals, in 2014 we published 
three such reports — two on climate change and one on 
unconventional resources — which provide shareholders an 
enhanced description of global energy demand and supply, 
climate change policy, carbon asset risks and unconventional 
resource development. These reports continue to inform 
shareholders on how we evaluate and manage risks 
associated with these issues.

Climate risk reports

Unconventional resources report

Political advocacy and contributions
Public policy decisions made at all levels of government can 
have significant effects on ExxonMobil’s current and future 
operations. We believe that sound public policy is best 
achieved when a variety of informed voices participate in the 
political process. For this reason, ExxonMobil exercises its 
right to support policies that promote a stable investment 
climate for long-term business viability. 

activities. We fully comply with registration and reporting 
regulations related to our lobbying activities. In 2015, the 
corporation reported total federal lobbying expenses of about 
$12 million in its disclosure reports to Congress.

ExxonMobil engaged on a variety of issues last year in support 
of responsible economic, energy, education and environmental 
policies. Our positions on a few key issues are described below.

ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions and 
NGOs, communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress 
and state legislatures. Lobbying activities include direct 
communication with members of Congress, state legislators, 
administration and regulatory officials, as well as support for 
trade associations and other groups that engage in lobbying 

•  Energy infrastructure: ExxonMobil supports the continued 
development of necessary energy infrastructure, which will 
increase energy security and help grow the economy. 

•  Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling: ExxonMobil 

supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic 

Corporate governance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

86

 
fracturing — safe and successful technologies that have 
been used for decades — to enable energy development. 
With the combination of these technologies, energy secu-
rity is enhanced through expanded oil and gas production.

•  Cybersecurity: ExxonMobil is committed to protecting all 

information and assets related to our global operations. We 
support and participate in the development of risk-based 
industry guidelines and existing public-private frameworks 
to protect against cyber threats. Because of ExxonMobil’s 
global operations, we are concerned about the potential 
fragmentation of mandatory security requirements. To the 
greatest extent possible, cybersecurity requirements need 
to be harmonized globally.   

•  Tax policy: ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that 
enable the energy industry to remain competitive in the 
global marketplace. Energy development benefits our 
economy and sound tax policy is needed to encourage 
investment, job creation and productivity.

• 

International trade: Trade liberalization is among the top 
global issues for ExxonMobil. The company supports free 
trade policies for all products, including energy products 
such as oil and natural gas. ExxonMobil supports lifting 
restrictions on exports of energy products because 
expanding markets can benefit all consumers, since 
it encourages the development of new technologies, 
new business models and the efficient production and 
distribution of products. Robust trade policies benefit 
consumers and encourage more investment, sustain 
high-paying jobs and foster economic growth.

•  Regulatory improvement: Common-sense reforms to 
improve transparency, accountability and objectivity of 
regulations would enable effective enforcement, improve 
public safety and minimize economic costs. 

•  Renewable fuel standard (RFS): ExxonMobil opposes 

fuel mandates such as the RFS because they distort free 
markets, do not provide claimed environmental benefits 
and ultimately increase costs to consumers. Transpor-
tation fuels should be reliable and affordable to meet 
consumer needs, consistent with automobile and engine 

manufacturers’ recommendations, and compatible with 
transportation fuel infrastructure.

•  Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA): ExxonMobil supports 
TSCA reauthorization and modernization to strengthen 
safety standards, mandate safety reviews for all new and 
existing chemicals, and balance state and federal regulations 
of chemicals. Reforming chemical regulation strengthens 
oversight and provides consumers with more confidence in 
the safety of chemicals, while also providing companies the 
certainty needed to support future investments. 

•  Education: Improving educational performance is vital to 

the success of our industry and to global competitiveness. 
We support sensible, forward-looking efforts to raise 
academic standards and help teachers and students. We 
support science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
education initiatives as part of a path to competitiveness.

In light of the importance of sound public policies, ExxonMobil 
will continue to engage actively with stakeholders who have 
an interest in key issues that affect the company and industry.

ExxonMobil Perspectives blog

ExxonMobil makes political contributions to candidate 
committees and political organizations as permitted by 
applicable laws. These contributions are authorized by the 
board of directors. The corporation refrains from making 
political contributions in any country other than the United 
States and Canada. In 2015, we contributed almost $230,000 
to state candidates and caucuses in 13 U.S. states. Corporate 
political contributions are subject to an internal review process 
that requires approval from the chairman. The political 
contributions of the corporation, as well as the contributions 
from the company-sponsored political action committee 
(PAC), are reviewed with the board of directors annually and 
are routinely verified during internal audits of the corporation’s 
public affairs activities. 

Eligible employees and retiree shareholders may participate  
in the U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary 
company-sponsored federal PAC. PAC contributions are 
reported monthly to the Federal Election Commission 

(FEC) and are a matter of public record. During 2015, 
ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed nearly $822,000* to federal 
and state candidates. Based on 2015-2016 election 
cycle disbursements, Congressional Quarterly’s Political 
MoneyLine lists the ExxonMobil PAC No. 52 in size relative to 
other corporate PACs. The ExxonMobil PAC ranks No. 43 in 
terms of receipts from employees and retiree shareholders. 
The rankings are compiled from publicly available data filed 
with the FEC. 

Our Political Activities Policy and Guidelines, as well as an 
itemized list of our corporate political contributions, are 
available on our website.

Political Activities Policy and Guidelines

* Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned 
contributions not yet posted. 

Corporate governance
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

87

About this report

This 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report was created in 
accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators 
of IPIECA — the global oil and gas industry association for 
environmental and social issues, the International Association 
of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum 
Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting (2015). ExxonMobil was a key 
contributor to the updated industry guidance, and this report 
reflects the new indicators at a common reporting level. 
The majority of these indicators are also consistent with the 
indicators used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its 
G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; this report is informed 
by the G4 guidelines but has not been prepared to a particular 
GRI in accordance model. To help interested stakeholders 
easily access our key sustainability indicators, we have mapped 
relevant IPIECA and GRI indicators on page 93 of this report.

This report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 
2015, through December 31, 2015, unless otherwise indicated. 
The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantita-
tive metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and 
performance. For environmental and climate change data, units 
of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is 
reported in U.S. dollars. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous 
affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, 
Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, 
those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our, we, 
us and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to 
specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil includes the 
above-mentioned operations as part of our company perfor-
mance data, which starts on page 90.

The term “project” as used in this publication can refer to 
a variety of different activities and does not necessarily 
have the same meaning as in any government payment 
transparency report.

Continual improvement
External feedback on our report is a key component of our 
engagement strategy and commitment to improve our annual 
Corporate Citizenship Report. Management reviews all 
comments, which, in many instances, are incorporated into the 
materiality assessment and report content.

We welcome all feedback on this 2015 report. For additional 
information, to view previous reports or to provide comments, 
visit exxonmobil.com/citizenship or contact: 

Incorporating stakeholder 
feedback

Jeremy Eikenberry, Corporate Citizenship Report
Exxon Mobil Corporation
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas 75039
citizenship@exxonmobil.com

Assurance
Third-party assurance provides an independent evaluation of 
how well we report our corporate citizenship information and 
gives our reporting practices additional integrity. Lloyd’s Register 
Quality Assurance Inc. conducts an annual third-party assurance 
of ExxonMobil’s safety, health and environmental reporting 
system. For the full assurance statement, see page 94.

Cautionary note
Statements regarding future events and conditions in this 
publication are forward-looking statements. Actual future 
results, including energy demand growth and supply mix; 
demographic changes; project plans, results, costs and 
capacities; the impact of new technology; future emission 
reductions and efficiency gains; and future capital expen-
ditures may differ materially due to changes in oil and gas 
prices and other factors affecting supply and demand for oil, 
gas and petrochemicals; changes in government policy and 
regulation; future technological developments; the occur-
rence and duration of economic recessions; the outcome of 
commercial negotiations; unexpected technical and operating 
difficulties; and other factors discussed in this publication 
and in Item 1A of ExxonMobil’s most recent annual report on 
Form 10-K. These factors are also set forth under the heading 
“Factors Affecting Future Results” on the Investors page of 
ExxonMobil’s website.

Each year, we hold face-to-face and telephone dialogues with 
a variety of our stakeholders — including representatives from 
NGOs, academia, investors, industry experts and employees — 
about our Corporate Citizenship Report. We have identified 
several recurring comments from stakeholders on our 2014 
report and describe where we have incorporated changes 
within this year’s report.

Discuss the technology and science ExxonMobil uses  
in greater detail. We have dedicated a case study and  
several Up Close examples to provide more information 
about the leading-edge technology our employees are using 
each day. 

Describe the linkage between sustainability and ExxonMobil’s 
key business objectives. We have expanded our discussion on 
our business and how ExxonMobil contributes to progress by 
providing the energy the world needs. We also have featured 
our OIMS framework, which establishes common worldwide 
expectations for addressing the safety, security, health and 
environmental risks inherent in our business. 

Incorporate more third-party perspectives. We have 
incorporated quotes from eight ExxonMobil academic partners 
and NGOs in this report to show our continual approach to 
collaborating with our stakeholders. We have also incorporated 
our External Citizenship Advisory Panel’s statement on our 
citizenship activities directly in this year’s report.

Provide more context for performance data. We have 
incorporated explanatory text with every chart throughout 
the report. Additionally, our performance data table beginning 
on page 90 has an expanded description of the scope of 
coverage in our company-wide data. 

About this report
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

88

 
Materiality

A key step in developing this Corporate Citizenship Report is ensuring the content reflects ExxonMobil’s most material issues. According to IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for 
environmental and social issues, material issues for sustainability reporting are those that, in the view of both the company’s management and its external stakeholders, have the potential to affect 
sustainability performance significantly. ExxonMobil has been conducting a materiality assessment to guide our reporting since 2006. For this 2015 report, we refreshed and built upon the process 
that was used to determine content for our 2014 report. We outline this materiality process below. 

1

Issue identification

3

2015 material issues

Using our list of potential material issues from 2014, we used the following sources to identify 
if there were any new issues to add or issues that may need to be reassessed:
•  Media review
•  Feedback sessions with external stakeholders
•  Benchmarking of peer company reports
•  Feedback sessions with ExxonMobil business line representatives
•  Review of new IPIECA reporting guidance

2

Issue prioritization

We then prioritized the identified new issues or those that needed to be reassessed based on 
the following criteria:
•  Frequency that stakeholders raised the issue
•  Presence in the public domain
•  Occurrence under international standards and frameworks
•  Coverage by our industry and peers
•  Online and media coverage
•  Strategic importance to ExxonMobil
•  Future business opportunities and challenges

In 2015, two new issues emerged compared with last year: decommissioning and rehabilitation 
of the environment. While we have reported on these topics in the past, we have not addressed 
them in detail in recent years. Our materiality assessment results guided us to add them to the list 
of material topics in 2015.

Safety, health and the workplace
•  Emergency preparedness and response
•  Employee benefits
•  Employment practices
•  Personnel safety
•  Process safety
•  Product safety and responsibility
•  Product transportation safety
•  Retention and engagement
•  Training and development
•  Workplace security
•  Worksite health and wellness 

Managing climate change risks
•  Climate change policy and planning
•  Energy use/efficiency
•  Greenhouse gas emissions 

Environmental performance
•  Air quality
•  Biodiversity and ecosystem services
•  Decommissioning
•  Environmental compliance
•  Rehabilitation of the environment 
•  Spill performance
•  Water 

Community and social impact
•  Community relations
•  External stakeholder engagement
•  Human rights
•  Indigenous peoples 

Local development and  
supply chain management
•  Economic impacts and development
•  Supply chain management

Corporate governance
•  Board leadership
•  Ethics and integrity
•  Executive compensation
•  Political advocacy and contributions
•  Shareholder relations/returns
•  Transparency 

Business operations  
(included throughout report)
•  Arctic operations
•  Canadian oil sands
•  Energy future
•  Management systems
•  Offshore drilling
•  Unconventional oil and gas operations

Materiality
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

89

 
Performance data

We are committed to continual improvement in all six of our corporate citizenship areas. This means we assess our performance at many levels of the organization, from individual operational sites to 
the business lines. Starting in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. As part of our commitment to continual improvement, in 2014 we started reporting our data over a 10-year 
period to demonstrate performance trends over time. For data that is discussed in more detail in this report we reference the corresponding page number in the table. 

Performance data table*
Safety, health and the workplace

Fatalities — employees

Fatalities — contractors

1Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)

1Fatality incident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)  

2Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)

2Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)

2Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)

2Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)

2Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)

2Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)

Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance)

3,4Number of regular employees at year end, thousands

4Percent of workforce — outside the United States

4Percent women — global workforce 

Percent management and professional new hires — women

Percent management and professional new hires — outside the United States

Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands

Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars

Managing climate change risks

5Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

6Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) 

7Emissions associated with imported power 

Greenhouse gas emission consituents (excludes emissions from exported power and heat),  
millions of metric tons

CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)
Methane (CO2-equivalent)
Other gases (CO2-equivalent)

Emissions from exported power and heat

By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

Africa/Europe/Middle East

Americas

Asia Pacific

Performance data
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Page #

3

7

0.021

0.021

0.050

0.052

0.051

0.33

0.43

0.39

N/A

82

63

24

41

72

52

60

139

129

10

0

8

0.018

0.013

0.031

0.065

0.048

0.33

0.43

0.38

N/A

81

63

25

38

71

35

61

135

125

10

0

5

0.011

0.011

0.054

0.049

0.051

0.37

0.49

0.43

N/A

80

63

25

39

69

48

69

126

117

9

4

4

0.017

0.012

0.043

0.040

0.041

0.32

0.39

0.36

69

81

63

26

38

63

52

71

123

114

9

0

3

0.006

0.006

0.048

0.031

0.038

0.25

0.34

0.30

62

84

60

26

40

70

61

77

126

117

9

0

9

0.017

0.017

0.064

0.086

0.077

0.30

0.41

0.37

70

82

61

26

44

79

65

80

128

119

9

1

4

0.010

0.010

0.042

0.049

0.046

0.25

0.37

0.33

63

77

59

28

39

68

76

88

126

118

8

0

6

0.011

0.009

0.050

0.041

0.044

0.21

0.32

0.28

62

75

59

28

39

66

87

96

127

119

8

0

3

0.006

0.006

0.032

0.030

0.031

0.19

0.29

0.25

65

75

58

28

40

61

79

0

2

0.004

0.004

0.043

0.029

0.034

0.21

0.26

0.24

74

73

59

28

41

61

85

117

124

123

115

8

122

114

8

134

131

122

119

122

124

120

119

116

115

4

1

14

50

69

20

3

1

14

50

65

20

3

1

13

45

62

19

3

1

14

43

62

18

3

1

13

45

64

17

3

1

15

45

66

17

5

1

15

44

68

14

7

1

16

44

70

13

6

1

7

43

66

14

6

1

4

44

65

13

19

19

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

19

N/A

N/A

19

21

26

26

27

27

N/A

28

28

35

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

90

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Page #

Managing climate change risks (continued)

By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Carbon dioxide — captured for sequestration, millions of metric tons

5 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100  
metric tons of throughput or production

57

60

22

53

59

23

49

57

20

47

56

20

50

55

21

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Energy use (billion gigajoules)

Energy intensity, normalized versus Global Energy Management System (GEMS) base year (2002) — refining

Energy intensity, normalized versus GEMS base year (2002) — chemical steam cracking

Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons

8Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts

Environmental performance

8Number of acres of managed wildlife habitat

Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel

9Significant spills to the environment 

Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel

Oil spills, number of oil spills > 1 barrel

Other spills, number of  chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel 

Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels

Other spills, thousands of barrels

Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons

Upstream

Refining 

Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons 

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons

22.6

21.8

60.9

1.6

94.8

90.4

8.2

4.3

370

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0

N/A

295

249

46

35.3

4.7

1.9

1.4

0.5

0.24

0.18

0.31

21.7

21.5

62.1

1.6

94.2

89.6

8.0

4.5

370

N/A

320

0.07

0.81

2.36

0

N/A

253

224

29

7.5

0.5

1.7

1.2

0.5

0.21

0.16

0.29

21.0

21.0

59.8

1.5

93.7

90.4

5.7

4.6

370

N/A

350

0.08

0.90

2.56

0

N/A

211

185

26

20.3

0.4

1.8

1.3

0.5

0.19

0.15

0.23

20.1

21.0

60.7

1.5

92.8

88.6

4.4

4.9

380

N/A

340

0.09

0.85

2.46

0

N/A

242

208

34

17.4

0.5

1.4

1.1

0.3

0.16

0.13

0.21

Performance data
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

54

54

20

5.0

20.7

20.0

57.2

1.5

90.9

87.3

4.1

5.0

56

51

19

4.8

22.3

19.6

56.3

1.5

90.0

88.2

3.6

5.2

58

49

20

5.9

22.8

19.7

57.0

1.5

90.5

88.8

3.7

5.3

56

47

20

6.9

23.4

19.2

53.4

1.6

90.3

86.4

4.5

5.5

56

45

21

6.9

23.4

18.9

52.3

1.7

91.2

86.6

5.3

5.5

20.5

20.8

57.9

1.5

91.8

87.6

3.6

4.9

6,400

6,900

7,000

7,000

7,200

7,100

N/A

330

0.10

0.87

2.41

0

N/A

210

186

24

7.7

40.4

1.3

1.1

0.2

0.14

0.12

0.20

550

370

0.26

0.88

2.64

0

N/A

484

387

97

17.8

2.0

1.3

1.1

0.2

0.13

0.15

0.21

520

330

0.26

0.82

2.41

0

20

356

294

62

8.5

1.6

1.2

1.0

0.2

0.13

0.14

0.17

430

280

0.22

0.74

1.98

0

18

330

280

50

9.3

0.9

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.12

0.14

0.16

420

270

0.17

0.74

1.79

0

19

334

288

46

9.1

4.1

1.3

1.2

0.1

0.10

0.14

0.17

430

300

0.33

0.73

1.67

0

11

319

280

39

10.8

0.4

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.10

0.14

0.15

N/A

N/A

N/A

34

35

35

35

36

N/A

N/A

36

37

48

N/A

48

N/A

N/A

N/A

51

51

51

N/A

N/A

51

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

53

53

53

91

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Page #

Environmental performance (continued)

VOCs emitted, metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Refining  

Chemical

Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars

Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons

10Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons

Community and social impact

11Community investments, millions of dollars

United States

Rest of world

Local development and supply chain management

0.074

0.016

0.043

3.2

0.1

0.1

170.0

109.1

60.9

0.073

0.015

0.039

3.8

0.1

0.1

206.6

124.1

82.5

0.059

0.012

0.043

5.2

0.2

0.4

225.2

144.6

80.6

0.058

0.011

0.036

5.1

1.2

0.8

235.0

143.0

92.0

0.061

0.012

0.036

4.5

0.6

1.3

237.1

154.8

82.3

0.063

0.011

0.032

4.9

1.3

1.9

278.4

161.3

117.1

0.056

0.010

0.036

5.5

1.7

2.0

255.6

156.5

99.1

0.059

0.009

0.034

6.0

1.1

0.3

269.5

156.3

113.2

0.061

0.008

0.029

6.2

1.0

0.3

279.5

150.2

129.3

0.053

0.008

0.024

5.6

1.4

0.2

267.8

145.6

122.2

12ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars 

576

582

615

887

841

1,068

1,001

1,024

1,108

1,064

Corporate governance

13Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries

Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting

Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars

6

84.0

0.41

6

84.9

0.27

8

84.8

0.45

8

82.9

0.49

7

80.7

1.10

7

81.9

0.51

7

83.0

1.03

9

82.3

0.70

10

82.9

1.17

11

83.9

0.58

N/A

N/A

N/A

53

N/A

N/A

64

64

64

80

N/A

85

N/A

Notes on performance table:

1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2006 through 2015 all fatalities were injury-related. 

2 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, around 5 to 10 percent of the incidents are illness-related. 

3Reduction from 2011 is primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business.

4 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our company-operated 
retail stores are not included.

5 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2005 according to the new metric. The net equity greenhouse gas metric includes 
direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations, reflecting our percent 
ownership in an asset.

6 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1. 

7  These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.

8Cumulative figure.

9ExxonMobil began measuring significant spills to the environment, the number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus, in 2012.  

10 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 95 percent of the reported figure in 2008 through 2012.

11Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.

12 In 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; 

service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by peoples with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.

13In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence.

*  Some uncertainty exists in performance data, depending on measurement methods. Data in the report and performance data table represent best available information at the time of publication. Performance data are reported for our affiliates and those 
operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Includes XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. N/A is used to indicate that data are not available. 

Performance data
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

92

 
 
IPIECA/GRI content index

Our corporate citizenship reporting is guided by our materiality process (see page 89), through which we determine the most important issues to our stakeholders and our business. Our reporting is also 
consistent with the IPIECA, the International Oil and Gas Producers Association (IOGP) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting 
(2015). This report also cross-references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These standards can be downloaded at ipieca.org and globalreporting.org.

Report section

IPIECA/IOGP/API

GRI

Page
reported

Reporting overview

IPIECA/IOGP/API

GRI

Company overview
Chairman’s letter
About ExxonMobil and Contributing  
to progress
The Outlook for Energy
Sustainability and Engaging with  
our stakeholders
External Citizenship Advisory Panel
Key sustainability issues and challenges
Case study: ExxonMobil’s Operations 
Integrity Management System
Safety, health and the workplace
Safety
Emergency preparedness and response
Workplace security
Health and wellness

G4-1 
G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9,  
G4-17, G4- EC1
G4-2, G4-EC2

3

4-6

7

SE1, SE16

G4-2, G4-24, G4-26, G4-27

8-9

HS1, HS2, HS5, 
SE17

G4-26, G4-27
G4-2, G4-26, G4-27, G4-36

G4-14, G4-15, G4-LA10

HS1, HS3, HS4, HS5 G4-14, G4-56, G4-LA6
E9, SE17
SE17
HS1, HS2

G4-14, G4-LA10
G4-14
G4-LA2, G4-LA7
G4-9, G4-10, G4-56, G4-EC3, 
G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA9,  
G4-LA10, G4-LA11, G4-LA12

10-11
12-14

15-17 

18-22
22-23
23
24

24-28

29-32

33-34

35-38, 41

G4-16, G4-26, G4-27,  
G4-35, G4-EC2
G4-EC2, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, 
G4-EN27
G4-EC2, G4-EN3, G4-EN6, 
G4-EN15, G4-EN16,  
G4-EN18, G4-EN19

G4-EN6, G4-EN19,  
G4-EN27

G4-14, G4-56
G4-EN11, G4-EN12,  
G4-EN13, G4-EN14
G4-EN8, G4-EN10,  
G4-EN22

42-44

45-46

46-48

48-50

G4-16, G4-EN24, G4-EN30

51-52

G4-EN21

53

G4-EN22, G4-EN29, G4-EN31 53

G4-EN13, G4-EN31

54-55

56-58

Workforce

SE15, SE16, SE17

Managing climate change risks
Engaging on climate change policy and 
planning

SE14

Developing future technologies 

Mitigating greenhouse gas emissions in  
our operations

E1, E2, E4

Developing solutions that reduce green-
house gas emissions for customers
Case study: ExxonMobil’s research and 
development initiatives
Environmental performance
Environmental management

E1, E2, E5 

Biodiversity and ecosystem services

E5, SE1

Water management

E6, E7

E9 

E8

E11

Spill performance

Air emissions

Environmental compliance

Rehabilitation and decommissioning
Case study: Technological innovations in 
Arctic wildlife protection

IPIECA/GRI content index
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

E5, E6, SE1, HS2

G4-EN12

E3

G4-EC2, G4-EN7, G4-EN27

39-40

Community and social impact

Respecting human rights

SE1, SE8, SE9, SE10, 
SE17

Managing community engagement

SE1, SE2, SE3

Strategic community investments
Employee participation
Case study: New country entry in Guyana 
for the Upstream business 
Local development and supply chain management
Local economic growth and development

SE4
SE4
SE1, SE4, SE5, SE6, 
SE7, SE14, SE17 

G4-15, G4-56, G4-HR1, 
G4-HR2, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, 
G4-HR7, G4-HR9
G4-15, G4-EC7, G4-EC8,  
G4-HR8, G4-SO1, G4-SO2
G4-EC1, G4-EC7, G4-EC8
G4-EC1
G4-SO1, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, 
G4-EC9

SE5, SE6, SE7, SE17 G4-EC6, G4-EC8

Supply chain management

SE5, SE7, SE9, SE12

Corporate governance

Ethics and integrity

Board of directors

SE11, SE12, SE13, 
SE16, SE17, SE18

Shareholder relations
Political advocacy and contributions
Report overview

SE14

About this report

Materiality

Performance data

IPIECA/GRI content index

Assurance statement and back cover

E1, E2, E4, E5, E6, 
E7, E8, E9, E10, HS3, 
HS5, SE4, SE7, SE13, 
SE14, SE15, SE17

G4-12, G4-EC9, G4-HR1,  
G4-HR9, G4-HR10

G4-5, G4-14, G4-15, G4-56, 
G4-57, G4-58, G4-SO3,  
G4-SO4
G4-7, G4-34, G4-35, G4-38, 
G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-43, 
G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, 
G4-51, G4-53, G4-LA12
G4-26, G4-27, G4-34
G4-27, G4-SO6

G4-17, G4-26, G4-27, G4-28, 
G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-33
G4-18, G4-19
G4-10, G4-13, G4-22, G4-EC1, 
G4-EC8, G4-EN3, G4-EN5, 
G4-EN8, G4-EN13, G4-EN15, 
G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, 
G4-EN21, G4-EN23, G4-EN24, 
G4-EN25, G4-EN31, G4-LA1, 
G4-LA6, G4-LA9, G4-LA12, 
G4-SO6 
G4-32
G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, G4-17, 
G4-33

Page
reported

59-60

61-64

64-67, 69-70
67-68

71-73

74-78

78-80

81-83

83-85

85-86
86-87

88

89

90-92

93

94-95

ExxonMobil fully reports on all GRI indicators listed above, unless they are in italics, in which case they are partially 
addressed. Where indicators require multiple pieces of information located in different sections of the report, we list the 
indicator in every section where the related information appears. The IPIECA indicators in this index include, at minimum, all 
common reporting elements.

Environmental Resources Management, Inc. (ERM) reviewed ExxonMobil’s 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report against 
the IPIECA/IOGP/API Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) and the GRI G4 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ERM found that the report contents address the indicators shown in this index.

93

LRQA Assurance Statement

Relating to Exxon Mobil Corporation’s Corporate Citizenship 
Report for the calendar year 2015.

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Exxon Mobil Corporation in 
accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report.

Terms of engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by 
Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) to assure its processes for reporting 
safety, health, and environmental IPIECA performance indicators used in 
the Corporate Citizenship Report (CCR) for the calendar year 2015, to a 
reasonable level of assurance using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered ExxonMobil’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically the following requirements:
•  Verifying the integrity of the processes used for determining which 

material issues to report

•  Evaluating consistency with the following industry guidelines: 

-  IPIECA/API, Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability 

Reporting (2015)

-  API, Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation 

Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (2009) 

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data 
and information reported.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to ExxonMobil. LRQA disclaims any liability 
or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. ExxonMobil’s 
management was responsible for preparing the CCR and for maintaining 
effective internal controls over the reporting processes and CCR. LRQA’s 
responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting 
processes in accordance with our contract with ExxonMobil. Ultimately, the 
CCR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, ExxonMobil.

LRQA’s opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that ExxonMobil’s reporting 
processes were effective in delivering safety, health, and environmental 
indicators that are useful for assessing corporate performance and 
reporting information consistent with IPIECA/API Guidance. 

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of 
assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the Verifier. 

LRQA’s approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our 
Verification procedure; the following tasks though were undertaken as part 
of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:
•  Reviewing the reported information to confirm the inclusion of all core 
safety, health and environmental performance indicators referenced in 
the IPIECA/API Guidance

•  Reviewing the documented reporting requirements against the 

applicable industry guidelines to assure consistency of scope, definition, 
and reporting for each of the relevant indicators

•  Reviewing the reporting processes at Headquarters and at each of the 

functional business levels to evaluate the processes used by ExxonMobil 
to assure completeness, consistency and conformance to reporting 
requirements across its global operations

•  Reviewing the stakeholder engagement processes
•  Reviewing the processes used to aggregate the data and information at 

the corporate level for inclusion in the CCR

Observations and areas for potential improvement were provided in a 
report to ExxonMobil’s management. These recommendations do not 
affect our opinion. 

LRQA’s competence and independence
LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on 
their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and 
certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to 
ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.

LRQA is ExxonMobil’s certification body for ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 
(lubricants operations) and Responsible Care® (chemicals operations) 
and the California Air Resources Board greenhouse gas verification. The 
certification assessments are the only work undertaken by LRQA for 
ExxonMobil and as such does not compromise our independence  
or impartiality.

•  Reviewing ExxonMobil’s data collection tools to assess use in the 

Signed  

       Dated:  March 30, 2016

reporting processes

•  Reviewing the data-reporting processes at a sample of nine 

operating sites selected by LRQA to assess local understanding 
and implementation of reporting requirements. Sites selected were 
Rotterdam manufacturing complex, Netherlands; Paulinia solvents plant, 
Brazil; Imperial Oil Resources Limited Cold Lake, Canada; ExxonMobil 
Chemical Company headquarters, United States; ExxonMobil 
Development Company headquarters, United States; and lubricant 
facilities in Serviburnu, Turkey; Vado, Italy; Gravenchon, France; and Tai 
Cang, China. 

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance 
engagement, are:
•  Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to core safety, 
health and environmental metrics understood corporate reporting 
obligations and were included in corporate safety, health, environmental 
and climate change reporting

•  Methods used for calculating each metric were defined clearly and 

communicated

•  Processes were in place to ensure that the quantitative indicators were 

checked for completeness, consistency and accuracy

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 
was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken 
•  Guidelines for greenhouse gas emissions reporting were consistent 

with, and specifically refer to, the API Compendium for Greenhouse Gas  
Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (2009)

•  Active engagement with external stakeholders provided information for 

determining material issues

Andrea M. Bockrath  

LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 

LRQA Reference: UQA0110889

LRQA’s Verification procedure is based on current best practice and uses the 
principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and 
Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000.

Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, 
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause 
as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not 
be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on 
the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that 
person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the 
provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or 
liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s 
Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into 
other languages. 

This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it 
refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the 
Lloyd’s Register Group.

Assurance statement
exxonmobil.com/citizenship

94

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explore our complete 2015 Corporate Citizenship Report at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. 

Note: Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, 
Esso, Mobil 1 and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as corporation,  
company, our, we and its are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups.  

ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which 
Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. The term “project” as used in this publication 
can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government 
payment transparency reports.

Exxon Mobil Corporation
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas 75039-2298
exxonmobil.com

