2017 Sustainability  
Report Highlights

Table of contents

Chairman’s letter

ExxonMobil and sustainability

External Sustainability Advisory Panel statement

Addressing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 

Corporate governance

Safety, health and the workplace

Managing the risks of climate change

Environmental performance

Community engagement and human rights

Local development and supply chain management 

Case study: ExxonMobil’s response to Hurricane Harvey

About the Sustainability Report Highlights

Performance data table

3

4

6

8 

9

12

16

20

23

26 

29

30

31

Note: Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and 

simplicity, those terms and terms such as corporation, company, our, we and its are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. 

ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol 

XOM) is traded. The term "resource base" as used in this publication is not intended to correspond to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) definitions such as 

"probable" or "possible" reserves. That term includes quantities of oil and gas that are not yet classified as proved reserves under SEC definitions but that are expected 

to be moved into the proved reserved category and produce in the future. Proved reserve figures are determined in accordance with SEC definitions in effect at the 

end of each applicable year. 

Statements of future events or conditions in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including future energy supply, demand and mix; 

the future effectiveness of safety, health, environmental and other sustainability risk and impact management processes; efficiency gains; and the impact of future 

technologies could differ materially due to factors including changes in supply and demand for oil and gas and other factors affecting long-term oil and gas prices; 

political and regulatory factors including the impact of international accords and treaties; changes in consumer preferences; actions of competitors including the 

development of competing technologies; the outcome of current and future research efforts; technical and operating factors; and other factors discussed under the 

heading Factors Affecting Future Results available through the Investors page of our website.

More about this report

Explore our complete 2017 Sustainability Report at 

exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport

Content index 

exxonmobil.com/contentindex

Report archive 

exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreportarchive

Additional resources

The Outlook for Energy 

exxonmobil.com/energyoutlook

Energy Factor 

energyfactor.exxonmobil.com

Digital Annual Report 

exxonmobil.com/annualreport

Energy and Carbon Summary 

exxonmobil.com/ecsummary

2

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsChairman’s letter

I’m pleased to share with you ExxonMobil’s 2017 

workers and members of communities where we work.  

Sustainability Report. 

For more than 135 years, ExxonMobil has strived to meet 

society’s evolving needs. We work to meet growing 

We continue to make good progress toward our goal of 

Nobody Gets Hurt. In 2017, we had the fewest recordable 

injuries in our company’s history. 

demands for energy and chemical products while advancing 

In the communities where we operate, we routinely 

other priorities such as economic growth, environmental 

dialogue with local officials responsible for emergency 

protection, education, poverty reduction, health, security 

response, health, safety and environmental protection.

and human rights. 

I’m proud of the role we play in raising living standards. 

health and safety. We work to enhance economic 

Millions of people have escaped extreme poverty in the last 

development by hiring and training qualified local workers 

two decades due in part to increased access to energy.

and making local investments.

Our commitment to communities extends well beyond 

The energy we produce is important. So is the way we 

At ExxonMobil we are committed to creating long-term 

shareholder value by making a positive contribution to society. 

I hope you find this report helpful in understanding our 

approach. We welcome your feedback at exxonmobil.com/

sustainabilityreport.

produce it.  

The men and women of ExxonMobil are focused on  

meeting society’s dual challenge – meeting energy needs 

while also minimizing the environmental impacts of energy 

use, including the risks of climate change. It’s one of society’s 

largest and most complex challenges and requires 

thoughtful engagement at all levels, focusing on practical 

and affordable solutions that work at the necessary scale.

At ExxonMobil, we work extensively to reduce emissions  

and other environmental impacts of energy use in our 

operations and through the products we sell. We’re also a 

leader in researching and developing energy technologies, 

Darren Woods 

Chairman and CEO

like algae biofuels and carbon capture, utilization and 

storage, that could potentially play a role in helping mitigate 

the risks of climate change.

Another key sustainability focus is health. We directly 

impact this through our commitment to the safety of our 

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

3

ExxonMobil and sustainability

ExxonMobil’s primary responsibility is to produce the energy and products the world needs 

in a responsible manner. Our approach to sustainability focuses on six key areas:

Safety, health and the workplace

•  Corporate governance
• 
•  Managing the risks of climate change
• 
•  Community engagement and human rights
• 

Environmental performance

Local development and supply chain management

For an in-depth analysis of our financial performance and investment decisions, see our 

2017 Digital Annual Report. For information on ExxonMobil’s view of global energy 

demand and supply through 2040, visit the Outlook for Energy.

4

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
Global operations

Upstream: We are one of the largest producers of oil and  

Downstream: We are one of the largest integrated refiners 

Chemical: ExxonMobil is one of the world’s largest chemical 

gas, with an active oil and gas presence in 38 countries where 

and manufacturers of fuels and lube basestocks, as well as 

companies, and has operations in 16 countries and a unique 

we explore, develop, produce and market hydrocarbons.

a leading manufacturer of petroleum products and finished 

portfolio of high-performance products. 

lubricants. We have refining and lubricant blending facilities  

in 25 countries.

ExxonMobil and sustainability

Crude oil & natural gas

Feedstocks
Feedstocks

Production

Refining & Supply

Chemical

Oil • Natural Gas • Natural Gas Liquids

Gasoline • Diesel • Fuel Oil • Jet Fuel 

Basic Chemicals • Intermediates • Synthetics

Lubricants • Asphalt • Chemical Feedstocks

Plastics & Resins • Speciality Elastomers & Butyl

4.0M oil-equivalent barrels of net oil  

and gas production per day 1

5.5M barrels of petroleum product 

sales per day 2

25.4M tonnes of chemical prime

product sales 2

1 Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet per 

2 Sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same 

1,000 barrels.

counterparty.

5

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsExternal Sustainability 
Advisory Panel statement

For the last 10 years, the External Sustainability 

Advisory Panel has commented on ExxonMobil’s 

sustainability reporting and transparency. In that time, 

the company has acted on many of our 

recommendations and we are encouraged by the 

progress. This year, the company has transitioned from 

a corporate citizenship report to a sustainability report, 

which connotes a greater sense of connectedness to 

global issues and deeper integration with corporate 

strategy. During our engagement period in 2017-2018, 

we had the opportunity to observe increased executive 

engagement in sustainability. Through meetings with 

the Chairman and CEO, and other senior business 

leaders in executive, operational and functional roles,  

we were able to engage the company on transparency, 

policy and strategy.  

This letter represents our individual and collective 

views on the quality and progress made in 

ExxonMobil’s sustainability reporting and transparency. 

In recognition of our efforts, ExxonMobil provided a 

donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit 

organizations of our choice and reimbursed relevant 

travel expenses. This letter is not an official 

endorsement of ExxonMobil’s sustainability report,  

the corporation, or its policies and strategies.

For past panel feedback statements, visit:

exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport

Linking sustainability to corporate strategy

of 25 percent and 15 percent respectively, by 2020, is a 

Climate change, sustainable development and human rights 

significant step forward.

are among the most pressing challenges facing society. 

Due to the possible negative impacts climate change poses to 

Companies are responding by aligning their core business 

business operations, human rights and economic development 

strategy around global initiatives that seek to address these 

around the world, we urge further integration of climate 

trends — the Paris Agreement, the United Nations Sustainable 

change into the core of ExxonMobil’s business strategy. This 

Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Guiding 

includes through continued operational upgrades and near- 

Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We 

and long-term research and product development programs.

recognize ExxonMobil’s progress in responding to these 

international issues and goals. We hope that the company will 

take further steps to demonstrate how climate change, the 

SDGs, human rights and other sustainability-related challenges 

link directly with corporate investments and programs central 

to its long-term business strategy. We also recommend that 

the sustainability report include more information on how 

the company is aligning its long-term business strategy and 

sustainability strategy, along with the risks and opportunities 

created by these issues.

Communicating the urgency of climate change

We commend ExxonMobil for the significant steps the 

company has taken over the past year to address climate 

change. Publication of the Energy and Carbon Summary 

in early 2018 is a crucial step demonstrating the company’s 

progress in managing climate risk and responding to 

shareholder concerns. Continued investment in emerging 

energy technology research as well as dedicated efforts to 

reduce methane emissions are other areas of notable progress, 

alongside the company’s decision to participate in collective 

action platforms such as the Climate Leadership Council and 

global Methane Guiding Principles, and its public support for 

the Paris Agreement. The company’s recent announcement 

of efforts to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 

flaring and methane emissions through quantified reductions 

Perhaps most important, we encourage ExxonMobil to lead 

by example and be bold in its interaction with governments, 

industry, academic institutions and civil society organizations 

in the development of public policies that reduce the threat of 

climate change. 

Measuring performance and impact

Disclosure of future targets in addition to current performance 

data is becoming standard practice in corporate sustainability 

reporting. There is a growing movement where companies 

are publicly articulating “science-based targets” that align 

with current climate science. ExxonMobil’s report thoroughly 

discloses current and past performance data. As mentioned, 

we value the recent announcement of forward-looking 

greenhouse gas reduction measures and would suggest a 

similar approach for other material issues. Disclosure of the 

company’s most material and salient internal goals provides 

opportunity for external stakeholders to independently assess 

the company’s strategy and future performance.

Stronger statements can also be added on the outcomes or 

impacts arising from the company’s programs. Corporate 

investments and other performance data should be coupled 

directly with tangible impacts and outcomes that demonstrate 

ExxonMobil’s impact on society. For example, the report 

discusses the amount of capital invested in developing energy 

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

6

solutions with lower emissions. Emphasis could be added on 

company has addressed their concerns. We also recommend 

External Sustainability Advisory Panel

External Sustainability Advisory Panel statement

the actual or potential impact of these investments for society. 

that ExxonMobil describe limitations encountered with 

Describing a specific successful technology that resulted, or 

stakeholder interactions in countries where open consultation 

could result, from this investment could be more compelling 

is difficult. 

than disclosing financial investment data alone. Incorporating 

these outcomes creates a more engaging report that 

demonstrates the types of impacts the company is creating for 

the environment, people and industry. 

We appreciate that the company publishes a list of its political 

contributions and philanthropic giving to non-lobbying and 

nonprofit organizations. In the future, we would like to see 

more about the relationship between its contributions and its 

With respect to human rights, we recommend that the 

specific sustainability goals and/or programs. 

company be bold in stating its objective of no harm. Through 

many rigorous due diligence processes, ExxonMobil’s 

Concluding remarks

ExxonMobil's External Sustainability Advisory Panel is 

composed of academics, nongovernmental organization 

representatives and former government employees who 

have expertise in a variety of environmental, social and 

governance topics. 

Craig Benson 
Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science 

University of Virginia

Mark Cohen 
Professor of Management and Law 

approach to human rights, for example, closely aligns with the 

UNGPs. Greater specificity about practices and performance 

in this area would help the company align its reporting 

more effectively with societal and industry expectations 

of best practices. Measuring the impact on human rights 

quantitatively is difficult. Nevertheless, the company is already 

assessing impacts on staff and on communities in its areas 

of operation. We encourage it to expand efforts through 

further identification of potential adverse impacts, explaining 

processes used to identify these, and describing steps taken to 

mitigate them.

Engaging strategically with stakeholders

We recognize the progress that ExxonMobil has made over the 

Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management

past year in publicly addressing complex sustainability issues 

and call on the company to drive this agenda forward, both 

Frank Loy 
Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs 

through business activities and value chains, as well as through 

U.S. Department of State

strategic partnerships with others. We encourage the company 

and its executives to be even more bold and transparent in all 

aspects of sustainability performance. ExxonMobil is a global 

leader that others follow in many areas of the energy industry. 

We believe that taking an increasingly ambitious, evidence-

based and technologically innovative position on sustainability 

issues will provide the company with the opportunity to 

champion more substantial sustainability efforts worldwide, 

and to enhance long-term shareholder value.

Jane Nelson 
Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative 

Harvard University Kennedy School of Government 

Salil Tripathi 
Senior Adviser, Global Issues  

Institute for Human Rights and Business

Companies like ExxonMobil have to understand and 

balance the needs of numerous individual and institutional 

Sincerely,

stakeholders across different value chains and a wide range 

of cultures, regulations and operating environments. Some 

relationships are indirect and simple, while others are very 

complex. ExxonMobil’s current disclosure around stakeholder 

engagement is not sufficiently specific, which can create the 

perception that the company is not fully disclosing engagement 

activities. We recommend that ExxonMobil describe its 

stakeholders and their priorities more explicitly, and how the 

Craig Benson, Mark Cohen, Frank Loy, Jane Nelson,  

Salil Tripathi

June 2018

The External Sustainability Advisory Panel met with Chairman and CEO 

Darren Woods at ExxonMobil headquarters in Irving, Texas in May 2018. 

From the left: Frank Loy, Salil Tripathi, Jane Nelson, Darren Woods, 

Craig Benson and Mark Cohen.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

77

Addressing the United  
Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals 

since 2001, we have funded antimalarial programs that have 

SDG Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and 

reached more than 125 million people. Another example 

sustainable economic growth, full and productive 

is our U.S.-based Culture of Health program that provides 

employment and decent work for all 

health education, nutrition and fitness programs that support 

the well-being of our employees. We are expanding the 

program to other countries as well.

When working in a community, we add economic and social 

value by creating local jobs, supporting local supplier 

development and providing opportunities through training  

and investments. We employ nearly 70,000 people around  

The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 

(SDGs) aim to make significant progress on global 

SDG Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education 

for all and promote lifelong learning opportunities 

the world.

economic, social and environmental challenges by 2030. 

for all 

SDG Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and 

While ExxonMobil contributes to certain aspects of all 17 

SDGs, the following eight represent those most relevant 

to ExxonMobil’s sustainability focus areas.

Learn more about how ExxonMobil contributes to the 

UN SDGs at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport.

SDG Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms 

everywhere

We invest in education and teacher development programs, 

production patterns

placing a specific emphasis on encouraging students to 

pursue careers in the science, technology, engineering and 

mathematics fields. Since 2000, we have contributed more 

than $1.25 billion to education programs around the world. 

ExxonMobil is working to make our operations more efficient 

while also helping our customers to reduce their emissions. 

These solutions include creating advanced plastics and other 

materials that can be used in a range of consumer products to 

reduce weight and improve fuel efficiency, and by developing 

SDG Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower 

premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants.

all women and girls

Since 2005, ExxonMobil has invested $111 million in  

SDG Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate 

programs that develop female entrepreneurs and business 

change and its impacts

leaders and improve women’s ability to advance. Internally, 

United Nations data shows a strong correlation between 

ExxonMobil promotes leadership development for women 

energy use and improved standards of living. ExxonMobil is 

during all aspects of their careers, including through training 

working to help lift people out of poverty around the world by 

and mentoring.

expanding access to affordable and versatile energy supplies. 

In addition, ExxonMobil collaborates with host governments 

SDG Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, 

and other local stakeholders to implement community 

sustainable and modern energy for all

Meeting the world’s growing energy demand while 

simultaneously reducing environmental impacts, including 

the risks of climate change, is one of society’s most pressing 

challenges. We are focused on mitigating emissions in our 

operations, developing technology solutions, providing 

solutions that reduce emissions for our customers and 

engaging on climate change policy. We are a founding 

investments that improve health and education, and help build 

and sustain local economic growth. 

SDG Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote 

well-being for all at all ages

ExxonMobil delivers reliable and affordable energy that  

member of the Climate Leadership Council, which advocates 

helps fuel economic activity and improve standards of living. 

for a revenue-neutral carbon tax and aligns closely with our 

Natural gas, for example, supplies 22 percent of the world’s 

long-standing principles. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas 

energy and has a lower carbon footprint than other traditional 

Climate Initiative, a voluntary initiative representing 13 of 

energy sources. In addition, ExxonMobil is researching lower-

the world’s largest oil and gas producers working towards 

ExxonMobil supports the health, safety and well-being of 

emission technologies, such as algae biofuels and advanced 

solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change.

our employees while also making investments to support 

carbon capture. We have invested more than $9 billion since 

community health systems and programs. For example, 

2000 on lower-emission energy solutions.

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

8

Corporate governance

ExxonMobil has a long-standing commitment to high ethical standards. Good corporate 

governance creates a business environment conducive to long-term growth. All our 

directors are required to stand for election each year at our annual meeting of shareholders. 

Independent directors also chair key board committees — audit, compensation, board affairs 

and public issues and contributions — that consist entirely of independent directors. 

 “ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides a key oversight role, including 

review of risk management efforts and long-term strategic plans. Ensuring 

that we have diversity of background, experiences and thought represented 

on the board remains critical to succeeding in a global market.”

Above: The ExxonMobil board of directors. Top row from the left: Michael Boskin, Angela Braly, Steven Kandarian, 

Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods, Kenneth Frazier, Douglas Oberhelman and Ursula Burns. Bottom row from the 

Neil A. Hansen 

left: Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery and William Weldon. 

Vice president, investor relations and corporate secretary, Exxon Mobil Corporation

9

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsBoard leadership

ExxonMobil’s board affairs committee, supported by an independent executive search 

firm, looks for highly qualified, non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, 

competency and a commitment to represent the interests of all shareholders. To help keep the 

board decided to further enhance the company’s disclosures consistent with the proposal and 

issued these disclosures in February 2018 in ExxonMobil’s Energy and Carbon Summary and 

the Outlook for Energy. These enhancements include energy demand sensitivities, implications 

of 2 degree Celsius scenarios and positioning for a lower-carbon future.  

process collaborative and inclusive, the board affairs committee considers recommendations 

from shareholders, directors and others on director candidates. At year-end 2017, 40 percent 

Business conduct

of the board’s independent directors were female and/or an ethnic minority. 

Operating ethically and responsibly is ingrained in our business culture and is monitored, enforced 

Sustainability topics are routinely reviewed at board meetings and typically fall under the 

and improved through our globally deployed Standards of Business Conduct. In 2017, nearly 

purview of the public issues and contributions committee, the board affairs committee and 

18,000 employees and contractors participated in anti-corruption training.

Corporate governance

the compensation committee. While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, 

committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant to each committee. For example, 

the public issues and contributions committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of 

the company’s policies, programs and practices with respect to the environment, among other 

duties. The committee hears reports from operating units on environmental activities and also 

visits operating sites to observe and comment on current practices. The entire board receives 

briefings by internal experts on environmental stewardship and climate change.

Shareholder relations

ExxonMobil values the dialogue we have with our shareholders — and the insight provided — 

throughout the year. The board has established procedures for shareholders and other interested 

parties to communicate with board members. In 2017, we held 68 shareholder engagements 

on environmental, social and governance issues with institutional investors, pension funds, 

labor, religious and nongovernmental organizations, representing an estimated 50 percent 

of outstanding stock held by institutional investors and about 30 percent of total shares 

outstanding. These engagements have frequently enabled us to reach common ground with 

our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more formal shareholder proposals at the 

annual shareholders meeting.

Consistent with ExxonMobil’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the board of directors 

reconsidered a proposal requesting a report on impacts of climate change policies (Item 12) 

submitted by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, which received a majority of votes 

cast during the 2017 annual shareholders meeting. In reconsidering the proposal, the company 

ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to ask questions, voice concerns and report 

any suspected violations of company policies. In addition to our open-door communication 

procedures, ExxonMobil has several confidential mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour 

“hotline” phone number and a mailing address. 

Bert Vos, a section head at the ExxonMobil Rotterdam refinery, provides an overview of facility operations to Chairman and 

sought input from a number of parties, such as the proponents and major shareholders. The 

CEO Darren Woods and board members Douglas Oberhelman and Susan Avery. 

10

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
Transparency

ExxonMobil's involvement with transparency initiatives is a natural extension of our commitment 

political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the United States and Canada.  

In 2017, we contributed over $210,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 10 U.S. states. 

Corporate political contributions are subject to an internal review process that requires 

to ethical behavior. We appreciate the need for relevant public and private company government 

approval from the chairman. 

payment disclosures to confirm the values of total government revenues and to help citizens hold 

their governments accountable for the use of those revenues.

Corporate governance

We believe the most successful transparency initiatives are those that apply to all foreign, 

domestic and state-owned companies, protect proprietary information to promote 

commercial competitiveness, comply with international trade conventions and treaties and 

do not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. We monitor and participate 

in transparency initiatives and we will continue to work with governments developing new 

reporting rules to support transparency objectives in countries where we operate.

Since its inception, we have been an active participant in the Extractive Industries Transparency 

Initiative (EITI) — a global organization that promotes the open and accountable management 

of oil, gas and mineral resources. We work with several governments that are EITI members, as 

well as others considering membership.

Policy engagement

ExxonMobil engages with governments to provide information and insight on policies that 

In 2017, the public issues and contributions committee visited the ExxonMobil research and engineering laboratory 

can affect our business. In 2017, ExxonMobil reported lobbying expenses in the United States 

facilities in Clinton, New Jersey. Front row from the left, board of directors Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery, Michael 

totaling $11.4 million in our public Lobby Disclosures Act filings. The board of directors has 

Boskin, Angela Braly and Henrietta Fore. Back row from the left, Robert Luettgen, manager of the office of the secretary, 

Vijay Swarup, vice president of research and development, Michael Dolan, senior vice president, Jeffrey Woodbury, vice 

authorized ExxonMobil to make political contributions to candidate committees and other 

president of investor relations and corporate secretary, and Bart Cahir, executive advisor to the chairman.

Explore more

Board engagement in ExxonMobil  

ExxonMobil’s position on key issues

2017 Proxy Statement

operations 

exxonmobil.com/boardengagement

exxonmobil.com/policyengagement

exxonmobil.com/proxymaterials

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

11

 
Safety, health and the 
workplace

Safety is a core value at ExxonMobil. The health and safety policies set by ExxonMobil and 

adopted by our affiliates reflect our company’s commitment to high operational standards and 

the well-being of our employees. We strive for an incident-free workplace and a culture that 

complies with our clear and simple objective: Nobody Gets Hurt. We build our culture of safety 

and health by attracting, developing and retaining individuals who share our commitment to 

operational excellence.

“In 2017 ExxonMobil achieved our lowest ever recordable injury rate as we 

continue working to eliminate all serious injuries. These improvements are 

supported by enhanced safety standards, strengthened safety leadership 

skills and human performance improvement programs. All of which are 

worked under our Operational Integrity Management System framework.”

Jerry Wascom 

Vice president, operational excellence, safety, security, health and environment,  

Above: Philip Ceary, a technical start-up lead, assessing equipment at the Antwerp refinery in Belgium. 

Exxon Mobil Corporation

12

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsSafety, health and the workplace

Safety and health

strategies. In 2017, we conducted 37 drills, including in Guyana where we have discovered 

an estimated recoverable resource of over four billion oil equivalent barrels.

ExxonMobil’s commitment to operational excellence starts at the top, is driven throughout our 

businesses and is consistent everywhere we operate. Our global health and safety goal is zero 

OIMS also establishes a framework for addressing risk across our supply chain. Contractors are 

injuries and illnesses. 

Since 2000, we have reduced our workforce lost-time incident rate by more than 80 percent. 

While this number is declining, safety incidents do occur. We deeply regret that two contract 

workers were fatally injured in separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations in 2017. 

an integral part of the ExxonMobil team; it is essential that they conduct work in accordance with 

our policies and business objectives. Since 2000, we have conducted safety leadership forums 

with contractors working on our major projects. This promotes a strong safety partnership with 

contract workers to improve our safety performance and positively influence the industry.

One incident occurred at an onshore drilling site and the other happened at a refinery during 

The success of ExxonMobil’s operations depends on a healthy and competent workforce. We 

construction activities. We thoroughly investigated the causes and contributing factors associated 

have corporate-wide expectations for identifying, evaluating and managing health risks related 

with the incidents to prevent similar events in the future and to globally disseminate findings. 

to our operations that can potentially affect our employees, contractors or the public.  

ExxonMobil’s Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) establishes a framework 

In each country, we develop workplace health programs that take into consideration local health 

for addressing risk across all aspects of our operations. OIMS, which is built around 11 key 

care systems, health needs and available resources. ExxonMobil’s U.S.-based Culture of Health 

elements of risk, is embedded into everyday work processes in each of the following areas of 

safety at ExxonMobil: 

Process safety: Process safety is about managing the integrity of our facilities by applying 

Lost-time incident rate*

good design principles, engineering and operating practices. ExxonMobil incorporates 

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

rigorous safety standards and procedures in our facilities’ design, construction and 

operating activities. We classify and track incidents by severity from Tier 1 through Tier 4, 

with Tier 1 referring to events of greater consequence. In 2017, we experienced 63 Tier 1 

process safety events, which is approximately 1.6 percent lower than 2016.

Product stewardship: Product stewardship refers to a series of interconnected work 

processes for the safe and effective management of a product, focusing on the health, 

safety and environmental impacts at each phase of a product’s lifecycle. We regularly use 

lifecycle assessments to consider impacts during the development, manufacturing, use and 

disposal of our products.

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0

2008            2009            2010            2011            2012            2013            2014            2015            2016            2017

Product transportation: ExxonMobil implements rigorous safety and environmental 

ExxonMobil workforce

U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark

standards while transporting our products, including by marine, pipeline and rail. We 

carefully maintain and monitor our infrastructure worldwide to identify and prevent 

corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions onto our rights of way.

In 2017, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.029, consistent with the previous year. 

Since 2000, we have reduced this rate by 80 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. 

petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to outperform industry peers in safety performance. 

Emergency preparedness and response: We establish emergency support groups and 

*Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information available at the time of publication. 

Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending on the reporting year, around 2 to 13 percent of the incidents 

incident management teams around the world to develop and practice emergency response 

are illness-related.

13

2017 Sustainability Report Highlightsprogram supports the well-being of our employees and reduces health plan costs. We continue  

2017 female and minority career development

to look for new opportunities to expand the reach of our Culture of Health program. In 2017, we 

expanded the program to our affiliates in Brazil and Mexico.

Worldwide females

U.S. minorities

Safety, health and the workplace

Workforce engagement

We value the exceptional qualities and diverse perspectives of our employees and strive to 

promote the inclusion of thought, skill, knowledge and culture across our operations. As demand 

for workers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics continues to 

increase, we support immigration policies that will help U.S. companies fill their needs for highly 

skilled workers.

We support voluntary, employee-led networks that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion 

by offering development programs, community service opportunities and mentoring. Our local 

employee resource groups include: 

•  Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE)
• 
Black Employee Success Team (BEST)
•  Global Organization for the Advancement of Latinos (GOAL)
•  Organization for New Employees (ONE)
• 
•  Veteran Advocacy and Support Team (VAST)
•  Women’s Interest Network (WIN)

People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity of Employees (PRIDE)

59%

  12% since 2010

Campus new hires 

for professional 

positions 

31%

  41% since 2010

34%

Leadership training 

participation*

26%

31%

  17% since 2010

20%

  43% since 2010

Senior leadership 

potential

Executive 

population

22%

  18% since 2010

16%

  58% since 2010

We strive to foster innovation and progress across our operations by helping our employees 

reach their full potential. We offer robust corporate and technical training programs and 

encourage employee engagement through a variety of channels, including mentorship programs 

We consider diversity through all stages of the employment relationship, including recruitment, training and development 

and networking opportunities. In 2017, more than 4,500 employees at various levels of the 

of our future leaders.

company participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs, of which 34 

*The number of leadership training courses and participation varies by year.

percent were women and 54 percent were employees from outside the United States.

Our Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our 

employment and support our commitment to provide equal employment opportunities, prohibit 

harassment and discrimination in the workplace and align with applicable laws and regulations in 

the countries where we operate. 

14

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
We send an annual letter to senior managers emphasizing their responsibility to maintain work 

environments free from harassment and discrimination. ExxonMobil employs a series of web-

based trainings and tools to help our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse 

workforce. Every employee is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for 

any act of harassment.

Safety, health and the workplace

Derrek Lathon, marine dock supervisor, communicating equipment observations with his team at the ExxonMobil  

Baton Rouge refinery.

Explore more

Drones enhance safety inspections across  

Working toward continuous improvement  

Emergency preparedness and response  

ExxonMobil’s Houston campus reaches 

the company

of process safety

in Guyana

sustainability milestone

exxonmobil.com/dronesafetyinspection

exxonmobil.com/safetyimprovement

exxonmobil.com/

exxonmobil.com/

guyanaemergencypreparedness

houstoncampussustainability

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

15

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsManaging the risks of  
climate change

We are committed to providing affordable energy to empower human progress and improve 

standards of living while advancing effective solutions to address climate change. ExxonMobil 

believes the risks of climate change warrant action.

Our climate change risk management strategy consists of four pillars: mitigating emissions in our 

operations, developing scalable technology solutions, providing customer solutions that reduce 

their greenhouse gas emissions and engaging on climate change policy.

“Climate change is a complex issue requiring global participation and 

solutions. In my role, I apply my technical, operational and regulatory 

background to evaluate strategies and partnerships to progress new 

solutions, an important factor in improving our emissions performance.”

Above: Sona Joseph, a research analyst, running computer models at the Upstream Research Company lab  

in Spring, Texas. 

Sufang Zhao 

Environmental policy and planning analyst, Exxon Mobil Corporation

16

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsMitigating emissions from our operations

Greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions*

Managing the risks of climate change

We are working to increase energy efficiency and reduce flaring, venting and other emissions 

in our operations. We expect our greenhouse gas reduction measures to lead to a 15 percent 

decrease in methane emissions and a 25 percent reduction in flaring by 2020. We also expect to 

further improve our industry-leading efficiency in refining and chemical manufacturing facilities.

In 2017, ExxonMobil and our subsidiary XTO Energy established a methane management 

program that exceeds applicable regulations. The program prioritizes actions at the highest-

volume production and midstream sites and includes efforts to develop and deploy new, more 

efficient technologies to detect and reduce facility emissions.

Along with several industry peers, we issued Guiding Principles, which provide a framework 

for continually reducing methane emissions, improving accuracy of methane emissions data 

and advocating sound policies and regulations.

Other ways we are reducing emissions include deploying proven technologies such as 

cogeneration and carbon capture and storage. Longer term, we are conducting and 

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions 
Millions of metric tons

160

140

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

2008            2009            2010            2011            2012            2013            2014            2015            2016            2017

supporting research to further develop breakthrough technologies. For information on 

Actual

Avoided

how ExxonMobil manages the business risks of climate change, including energy demand 

sensitivities, implications of 2 degree Celsius scenarios and positioning for a lower-carbon 

future, please see ExxonMobil’s Energy and Carbon Summary.

Developing technology solutions

Technological advancements will be instrumental to meet rising global energy demand while 

also lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We are conducting scientific research to enhance 

existing and develop next-generation energy sources. ExxonMobil has spent more than $9 

*In 2017, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were 23.4 million metric tons. Since 
2008, we have avoided 168 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions as a result of ExxonMobil 
actions. Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium 
of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry and IPIECA’s Petroleum 
Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net 
equity basis for our business operations, demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility or operation in 
which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, with the share reflecting the equity interest. 

billion on lower-emission energy solutions since 2000. 

In carbon capture, we are conducting research to find ways to improve existing technologies. 

At the center of our research is ExxonMobil’s Corporate Strategic Research laboratory, a 

One project, with FuelCell Energy, is focused on reducing the cost of capturing carbon by using 

carbonate fuel cells that generate power while capturing carbon. We are identifying potential 

fundamental research institution with approximately 170 PhD scientists and engineers focused 

on addressing the company’s long-range science needs. We support a diverse portfolio of 

locations for pilot testing. 

in-house research projects, including next-generation biofuels, carbon capture and storage, 

ExxonMobil has extensive experience in carbon capture and has a working interest in more 

alternative energy and climate science. ExxonMobil is partnering with approximately 80 

than one-fifth of the world’s total carbon capture and storage capacity. In 2017, we captured 

universities around the world to explore new energy technologies.

approximately 6.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide for storage. 

17

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
We are also conducting extensive research on biofuels. In 2017, ExxonMobil and Synthetic 

Providing solutions for customers 

Managing the risks of climate change

Genomics, Inc. announced breakthrough research involving a modified algae strain that more 

than doubled its oil content without significantly inhibiting growth, a key challenge along the 

path to commercial scalability. We recently announced a new research phase of this project 

that could lead to the production of 10,000 barrels of algae biofuel per day by 2025. The new 

phase of research includes an outdoor field study that will grow naturally occurring algae in 

several ponds in California. 

Emissions reduction

> $9B

invested to develop lower-
emission energy solutions 
since 2000

> $4 Billion

> $2 Billion

> $3 Billion

invested since 2000 at our 

invested since 2000 in our 

in support of Upstream, 

Upstream facilities around the  

refining and chemical facilities 

Downstream and Chemical 

world on emission reduction  

and enabling research around 

cogeneration facilities since 

efforts, including energy 

the world to reduce greenhouse 

2001 to more efficiently 

efficiency and flare mitigation

gas emissions

produce electricity and reduce 

greenhouse gas emissions

In addition to developing and deploying technologies to reduce emissions from our own 

operations, we are working to help our customers reduce their emissions. Our goal is to develop 

solutions that are economically competitive and affordable, including:  

Expanding the supply of cleaner-burning natural gas to reduce emissions in power 

generation: The use of natural gas in power generation represents one of the greatest 

opportunities for society to reduce emissions and transition to a lower greenhouse gas-

intensive energy system. ExxonMobil is one of the largest natural gas producers in the world 

and is a leader in liquefied natural gas technology. 

Creating lightweight plastics and other materials for a range of consumer products: 

ExxonMobil’s next-generation plastic packaging reduces total product weight and enables 

more products per shipment, fewer trucks on the road, less fuel and energy used, fewer 

greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be reused, recovered or recycled. 

For example, for every 10 percent drop in vehicle weight, fuel economy improves by an 

estimated 7 percent. We recognize plastic waste is an issue for societies, and ExxonMobil is 

engaged with diverse industries in helping to identify solutions.

Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants: Our family of high-performance 

lubricants includes synthetic lubricants like Mobil 1™ Annual Protection that need to be 

replaced less frequently than conventional motor oils, therefore reducing the volume of used 

oil for disposal or recycling. Our lubricants and greases are also used in more than 40,000 

wind turbines worldwide.

Engaging on climate change policy

Climate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration of governments, companies, 

consumers and other stakeholders. We engage a variety of stakeholders on climate change issues 

— including policymakers, investors, consumers, nongovernmental organizations, academics and 

the public — to advocate for responsible policies that would be effective in addressing the risks of 

climate change.

ExxonMobil supports the Paris Agreement as an important framework for addressing the risks 

of climate change. We welcomed the Paris Agreement when it was announced in December 

2015, and again when it came into effect in November 2016. We have reiterated our support to 

government officials, nongovernmental organizations and the broader public.  

18

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
Free markets, innovation and technology are essential in addressing the risks of climate change. 

Climate risk oversight

Success in developing and deploying technologies will be highly dependent on governments 

creating a policy environment that enables innovation and competition. Policies should be clear 

and guard against duplicative, overlapping and conflicting regulations, which may distort 

markets and impose unnecessary costs on consumers. We believe an effective policy response 

to climate change requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. Our scientists have 

been involved in climate change research and related policy analysis for more than 35 years, 

resulting in hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related topics, including more 

than 50 peer-reviewed publications.

We believe that effective policies are those that:

ExxonMobil’s board of directors is responsible for risk oversight, including the risks of climate 

change. The board routinely reviews and considers these risks, including briefings on public 

policy, scientific and technical research, as well as company and external positions and actions in 

this area. Climate-related matters are also considered by the board throughout the year in various 

other contexts, including reviews of the Outlook for Energy, the company’s safety, health and 

environmental performance, the annual corporate planning process, shareholder proposals and 

regulatory filings such as the 10-K.

Managing the risks of climate change

Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse gas emissions across the economy;

Let market prices drive the selection of solutions;

Promote global participation;

• 
• 
• 
•  Minimize complexity and administrative costs;
•  Maximize transparency; and
• 

Provide flexibility to react to developments in technology, climate science and policy.

ExxonMobil is a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council. The Council was created by 

former U.S. Secretaries of State George P. Shultz and James A. Baker, III to advocate for a carbon 

tax that would implement a gradually increasing price on carbon. The revenues generated by 

the plan would be returned to American energy consumers. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas 

Climate Initiative, a voluntary initiative representing 13 of the world’s largest oil and gas producers 

working collaboratively toward solutions to mitigate the risks of climate change. 

Synthetic Genomics, Inc. and ExxonMobil are working together to turn algae into a low-emission transportation fuel.

Explore more

2018 ExxonMobil Energy and Carbon 

Partnering with Singapore universities to 

Taking action to manage methane emissions 

Summary 

innovate lower-emission technologies

exxonmobil.com/

exxonmobil.com/ecsummary

exxonmobil.com/singaporeuniversities

managemethaneemissions

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

19

 
Environmental 
performance

Our diverse portfolio of projects requires us to work in remote and sensitive environments 

including Arctic, deepwater and biodiverse locations. ExxonMobil considers a full range of 

potential environmental and social risks associated with the lifecycle of our operations and 

products. In doing so, we gain a holistic understanding of our impacts from initial exploration 

activities to decommissioning. 

 “ExxonMobil is committed to excellence in environmental performance. 

It takes every single one of us, every day. It’s simply how we work.”

Above: ExxonMobil is working to help protect the Scheepmaker’s Crowned Pigeon,  

a threatened species native to Papua New Guinea. 

Kylie Bishop 

Environmental engineer, ExxonMobil Chemical Scotland

20

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsManaging environmental performance

Environmental management process

We comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and, where there are none on a 

particular issue, we follow relevant risk-based standards that protect the environment. Our 

facilities are designed, operated and managed with the goal of mitigating adverse environmental 

impacts. Our management approach is guided by an in-depth scientific understanding of the 

environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment to develop, maintain and operate 

Identify

+

Evaluate

Conduct

projects and decommission assets using appropriate standards. We work to continually improve 

our performance and look to new and existing technologies to enhance our operations. 

Environmental and social 

Environmental, social and 

Environmental and social  

aspects

regulatory settings

risk assessment

Environmental performance

In 2017, we maintained strong performance across our key environmental focus areas:  

Biodiversity 

In 2017, ExxonMobil contributed approximately $3 million to organizations focused on 

biodiversity protection and land conservation. To protect particular species and sensitive 

Apply

Monitor & Evaluate

Manage risks

habitats, we take steps such as modifying engineering design and enhancing wildlife habitats  

at our properties. 

Water management 

Environmental and social 

aspects

Avoid, reduce, remedy

Our net freshwater consumption at our operations was 300 million cubic meters in 2017. 

This represents about a 20 percent decline since 2011, in part due to the development and 

Spill performance and prevention 

implementation of local water management strategies.

ExxonMobil is committed to the prevention and elimination of spills from our operations.  

In our Upstream onshore operations, water consumption is primarily associated with 

hydraulic fracturing, which uses water pressure to create small cracks or fissures in rocks deep 

underground so that oil or natural gas can flow to the well. The industry has more than 60 

years of experience with the technique.

We continuously work to improve our understanding of our water consumption, including 

when, where and how much. Using the latest version of a water tool developed by IPIECA, 

the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, we identified 

that almost 37 percent of our major operating sites are in areas with the potential for water 

scarcity. Therefore, we pursue site-specific management strategies such as the deployment  

of water conservation technologies, the use of alternative water sources, recycling of 

We have the industry’s only dedicated, in-house oil spill response research program. If a spill 

does occur, we ensure a rapid, comprehensive response to minimize impact on communities 

and the environment.

We reported our best-ever performance for number of spills in 2017. We had 7 percent fewer 

than 2016. Since 2011, ExxonMobil has reduced the absolute number of spills greater than 1 

barrel by more than 55 percent across our global operations. The total volume of hydrocarbons 

spilled on soil and water was 6,900 barrels in 2017, and more than 65 percent was recovered  

at the spill sites. The majority of these spills did not affect third parties or nearby communities. 

Air emissions 

municipal and industrial wastewater, substitution with lower-quality water sources and 

ExxonMobil is committed to doing our part to contribute to cleaner air in the communities 

harvesting of rainwater.

where we operate. Our combined emissions of volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide 

21

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsEnvironmental performance

Karen Power, a production engineer, in front of ExxonMobil’s Hebron offshore platform off the coast of  

Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. 

and nitrogen oxides have decreased by almost 31 percent over the past 10 years across all 

our businesses. New air measurement technologies are making it easier to monitor ambient 

air at our Downstream facilities in the United States and Canada. Data collected around the 

perimeter of our facilities is publicly available to local communities.

Decommissioning and rehabilitation 

We are committed to sustainably managing our surplus properties. In 2017, ExxonMobil 

Environmental Services monitored about 4,000 active remediation sites in more than 30 

countries.

A significant number of our Upstream locations are located offshore. To effectively manage 

offshore operations, we use a systematic decommissioning process that varies depending 

on the type of structure and unique characteristics of a specific site. ExxonMobil created an 

offshore decommissioning center of expertise in 2015 that is responsible for planning and 

managing the safe decommissioning of our assets.

Seismicity 

ExxonMobil has a comprehensive risk management approach in place to limit induced 

seismicity from our operations by evaluating the relative risks associated with the specific 

geological and geographic context of a site.

We work with academic and government researchers and regulatory agencies to share our 

knowledge and advanced approaches. For example, ExxonMobil and Stanford University 

jointly developed a software modeling tool to assess the potential risk of induced seismicity 

and made it freely available to government and industry. The tool is being used by regulatory 

agencies and energy companies to help reduce the risk of human-induced seismicity. 

Explore more

Protecting the endangered western  

Reducing nitrate flow to the  

Decommissioning the Sable offshore  

gray whale

Mississippi River

energy project 

exxonmobil.com/westerngraywhale

exxonmobil.com/nitrateflowmississippi

exxonmobil.com/sableoffshoreenergyproject

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 

22

Community engagement 
and human rights

ExxonMobil works in communities all over the world, each with its own unique cultures, needs 

and sensitivities. Identifying and mitigating potential negative social impacts is integral to 

developing long-term, positive relationships with these communities. At ExxonMobil, we aim to 

promote and respect human rights in all areas where we work.

 “In Angola, our key initiatives in women’s empowerment and malaria support 

the priorities of the government and local communities. Through strategic 

partnerships, a shared responsibility to sustainability and an aligned vision, we 

have a positive impact on communities where we operate.”

Above: In 2017, ExxonMobil partnered with the Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative to organize 

Fernando Pegado 

community events to raise awareness about malaria in Lagos, Nigeria as part of World Malaria Day. 

Public and government affairs manager, ExxonMobil Angola

23

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsCommunity relations

Investing in our communities

Understanding and addressing the interests of communities where we operate is critical to 

ExxonMobil collaborates with governments and other stakeholders to invest in community 

maintaining a sustainable business. We engage with local communities through a variety of 

development programs where we operate. We work with local stakeholders to ensure that our 

communication channels — including open houses, community discussions and individual 

efforts are tailored to address community and business needs, such as access to skills training and 

meetings — to provide opportunities for dialogue with interested stakeholders. ExxonMobil 

health care, support for disaster relief, education initiatives and economic development. In 2017, 

creates grievance reporting mechanisms that provide opportunities for local citizens and 

we contributed $204 million to communities around the world. 

Community engagement and human rights

communities to raise concerns. 

Respecting human rights

We believe our business presence can and should have a positive influence on the people in 

the communities in which we operate. ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as 

a fundamental principle in our operations, implemented through training and the application 

of our internal policies and practices. The company’s practices and operations reflect the spirit 

and intent of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 

In 2017, ExxonMobil’s supplier, vendor and contractor expectations became part of 

an annual letter we send to our suppliers. These expectations include references to key 

international human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding Principles 

on Business and Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on 

Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.

We participate in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, an initiative that 

provides guidance to extractive companies on human rights risk assessments relating to the 

safeguarding of company operations or facilities. Engaging and training host government and 

private security on the Voluntary Principles is key to reducing human rights risks in certain 

communities. In 2017, more than 5,000 host government security and ExxonMobil-contracted 

The ExxonMobil Foundation collaborated with Mercy Corps, Technoserve and the Center for Global Development to 

security personnel were trained on the Voluntary Principles across 12 higher-risk countries.

measure the effect of mobile banking in empowering women economically.

24

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
2017 community investments

ExxonMobil provides investments to benefit many communities around the world. 

By focus area*

By geographic region*

Community engagement and human rights

$204M

Worldwide total

$62M  Civic and community

$43M  Employee and retiree giving

$42M  Higher education

$17M  Health and environment

$15M  Pre-college education

$8M  Women

$6M  Public policy research

$5M  United appeals and workplace giving

$3M  Other education

$3M  Arts and culture

*Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil 

Foundation, as well as employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee 

giving programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating expenditures.

Explore more

$125M

United States

$9M

Canada

$4M

$25M

Latin America

Africa and  

$13M

Asia Pacific

Middle East

$28M

Europe and 

Caspian

Managing community grievances  

Empowering women through access to 

Supporting the Educate A Child initiative

Helping communities combat malaria 

in Indonesia

exxonmobil.com/

mobile savings

exxonmobil.com/

indonesiacommunitygrievances

empoweringwomenmobilesavings

exxonmobil.com/educateachild

exxonmobil.com/combatmalaria

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

25

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsLocal development and 
supply chain management

Local content — the added economic and social value created by direct and indirect 

employment of local people through activities of the oil and gas industry — provides value to 

ExxonMobil and to communities. We aim to develop mutually beneficial relationships with local 

businesses throughout our supply chain.

 “It is critical that ExxonMobil be a valued contributor to the Guyanese 

economy and trusted member of the community. Helping establish 

ExxonMobil as a responsible partner and supporting capacity building of 

Guyanese suppliers for decades to come are important priorities as we 

continue our work.”

Above: A construction site team in Indonesia.

Rod Henson 

Lead country manager, Exxon Mobil Guyana

26

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsLocal development

2017 local hiring statistics

A successful local development program requires a long-term perspective with clearly defined 

Personnel locally hired

Personnel locally hired in supervisory or managerial positions

Local development and supply chain management

and consistently applied management processes. Our approach focuses on three key areas: 

employing and training a local workforce, supporting local suppliers and improving livelihoods 

of community members through local community investments.

Angola

We provide locally hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and leadership  

skills that will benefit them throughout their careers with ExxonMobil, and with future 

employers. With about 60 percent of our employees located outside the United States, local 

hiring ensures that our workforce remains culturally diverse and representative of the countries 

where we operate. As illustrated to the right, we continued to make progress in local hiring  

Chad*

and training in 2017.

Supply chain management

We work to source goods from local suppliers. In 2017, ExxonMobil made payments to more 

than 100,000 suppliers of goods and services worldwide. 

Equatorial Guinea

86%

64%

  6% since 2013

  50% since 2013

95%

87%

  1% since 2014

  25% since 2014

We have developed a set of best practices to help ensure our company consistently engages 

with local and diverse suppliers. These practices include supplier forums, local supplier 

76%

39%

databases and local enterprise centers for business development and training. For example, we 

  6% since 2013

  26% since 2013

have established a Centre for Local Business Development and supplier registration portal to 

support identification and training of Guyanese suppliers for our new development in Guyana. 

Indonesia

A similar example, in Papua New Guinea, has supported nearly 19,000 local entrepreneurs.

In addition, we cultivate long-lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with diverse suppliers 

to contribute to the economic development of historically underrepresented groups. In 2017, 

we exceeded our target with a total of $1.9 billion in spending with diverse suppliers in the 

United States. 

Our supplier diversity program continues to expand internationally. In 2017, we spent $186 

million with women-owned and indigenous-owned businesses outside the United States. We 

continue to work with the nonprofit WEConnect International, a global network that connects 

women-owned businesses to qualified buyers, to increase the participation of  

women-owned businesses in our supply chain. In addition to compiling an international 

Nigeria

95%

89%

  5% since 2013

  14% since 2013

95%

90%

  4% since 2013

  69% since 2013

database of women-owned businesses used by ExxonMobil, WEConnect identifies, educates 

*Historic data since 2013 is not available for Chad. ExxonMobil began tracking local hiring in this country in 2014. 

27

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
and certifies women’s business enterprises based outside of the United States that are at least 

ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers*

51 percent owned, managed and controlled by one or more women. In 2017, WEConnect 

International named ExxonMobil its Corporation of the Year in recognition of the company’s 

Millions of dollars

diverse supplier program. 

Local development and supply chain management

ExxonMobil’s vendors must agree to meet our robust safety, technical, environmental and human 

rights expectations and requirements. For existing agreements, a select number of suppliers are 

audited each year for contract compliance. Audit components include pricing, safety, and drug 

and alcohol policy compliance. A contractor who does not meet our expectations may be subject 

to supplemental training and contractual remedies, including termination.

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

$615

$887

$841

$1,068

$1,001

$1,024

$1,108

$1,064

$1,442

$1,902

In 2017, we spent a total of $1.9 billion with diverse suppliers in the United States, an increase of more than 30 percent 

from 2016.

*Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending). Total spending includes suppliers 

classified as minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and 

transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and 

businesses owned by people with disabilities.

Explore more

ExxonMobil begins production on  

Promoting sustainability throughout  

ExxonMobil supplier, vendor and contractor 

new polyethylene line at Mont Belvieu 

our supply chain

expectations

plastics plant

exxonmobil.com/sustainabilitysupplychain

exxonmobil.com/

exxonmobil.com/montbelvieuplasticsplant

suppliervendorcontractorexpectations

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

28

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsCase study: ExxonMobil’s response to 
Hurricane Harvey

On August 25, 2017, Hurricane Harvey made landfall in Texas as a Category 4 storm, bringing 

destructive winds and flooding to the Gulf Coast. The storm caused an estimated $125 billion 

in damages, and rebuilding efforts continue. ExxonMobil acted swiftly to ensure the safety of 

our employees and support affected communities.

Supporting our communities and our people

than 60,000 pounds of cargo via helicopter to stranded personnel and community members 

We started our response to Hurricane Harvey before it even arrived — by making a financial 

throughout the area.

contribution to community disaster relief efforts and by beginning to safely shut down our 

As rebuilding along the Gulf Coast continues, we are thankful for the incredible dedication of 

operations and make plans to bring in fuel from unaffected locations to aid in response and 

our employees and the resilience of our neighbors and the communities we serve.

recovery.

At our Baytown and Beaumont refineries, we worked to minimize environmental impacts from 

Emergency response operations

our operations that were caused by the storm and resulting power loss, and reported impacts 

to appropriate authorities. 

The ability to respond promptly during a disaster — regardless of where it strikes — is critical. 

ExxonMobil conducts extensive training and drills to prepare for such situations. We design our 

We helped our employees — many of whom spent day and night on the job to help safely shut 

facilities to withstand a variety of extreme conditions. 

down and then quickly restart our operations — clean up and repair their own homes, when 

they were flooded by the storm.

Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business unit 

has access to trained responders and resources. We practice emergency response strategies 

In the days and weeks following the storm, ExxonMobil contributed more than $7 million to assist 

and routinely test our emergency response teams in accordance with regulatory requirements 

with recovery efforts, and provided supplies and volunteers to assist with community recovery. 

and our own Operations Integrity Management System. 

For example, our employees helped the city of Beaumont restore its municipal water system, 

when Harvey left more than 100,000 people without running water. And we transported more 

Above: Relief supplies for Hurricane Harvey victims being loaded into a helicopter by ExxonMobil employees in Texas. 

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights

29

 
About the Sustainability Report Highlights

2017 material issues

The Highlights summarize ExxonMobil’s approach to managing our operations, and 

Since 2006, ExxonMobil has conducted an annual materiality assessment to identify the issues 

explains the measures we employ to operate in a variety of environments. It describes 

that, in the view of the company’s management and its external stakeholders, have the potential 

how we address the dual challenge of meeting the world’s demand for energy while 

to significantly affect sustainability performance. For this 2017 Sustainability Report, we evaluated 

managing the risks of climate change. For more information on ExxonMobil’s efforts to 

key metrics within the sustainability issues for our business and stakeholders using a review of 

manage performance across our six focus areas of sustainability, visit our full online 2017 

IPIECA reporting guidance, feedback from external stakeholders, sessions with ExxonMobil 

Sustainability Report.

business support representatives, a benchmark of peer company reports and a media review.

We developed this year’s Sustainability Report in accordance with the reporting guidelines 

and indicators of IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and 

social issues), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers and the American 

Petroleum Institute. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this 

report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be 

reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.

ExxonMobil corporate responsibility recognition 

ExxonMobil was ranked in the top 50 of Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 

Best Corporate Citizens in both 2017 and 2018 in recognition of the company’s 

commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability. The ranking is 

based on publicly available records from company websites, annual reports, 

shareholder calls, media interviews, NGOs and government documents. The 

analysis includes 260 data points on environmental performance, climate 

change, human rights, employee relations, corporate governance, philanthropy 

and financial performance.

Safety, health and the workplace

Community engagement and human rights

Emergency preparedness and response

Product safety and responsibility

Employee benefits and practices

Personnel and process safety

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Workforce engagement
•  Workplace security
•  Worksite health and wellness

Product transportation safety

Managing the risks of climate change

Engaging on climate change policy

•  Developing technology solutions
• 
•  Mitigating emissions
• 

Providing solutions for customers

Environmental performance

•  Air emissions
• 
Biodiversity and ecosystem services
•  Decommissioning and rehabilitation of 

the environment

Environmental management approach

Environmental compliance

• 
• 
• 
Spill performance
•  Water management 

External stakeholder engagement

•  Community relations
• 
•  Human rights
• 

Indigenous peoples

Local development and supply chain 
management

• 

• 

Local economic growth and 

development

Supply chain management

Corporate governance

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

Board leadership

Ethics and integrity

Executive compensation and strategic 

advantage

Political advocacy and contributions

Shareholder relations

Transparency

Business operations (included throughout 
report)

• 

Energy future and portfolio 

management

•  Management systems
•  Operating in sensitive environments

30

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsPerformance data

We assess our performance at many levels of the organization, from individual operational sites to the business lines, to support continual 

For additional information on our 

improvement in all areas of sustainability. Starting in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. As part of our commitment 

sustainability reporting, please see the 

to transparently communicate our performance, in 2014 we started reporting our data over a 10-year period to demonstrate performance 

IPIECA/GRI/SDG index.

trends over time. Data included in the performance table is guided by the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry 

Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015). 

Performance data table

Safety, health and the workplace*

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Fatalities — employees

Fatalities — contractors 

0

5

4

4

0

3

0

9

1

4

0

6

0

3

0

2

0

3

0

2

1 Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours) 

0.011

0.017

0.006

0.017

0.010

0.011

0.006

0.004

0.008

0.005

Fatal incident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours) 

0.011

0.012

0.006

0.017

0.010

0.009

0.006

0.004

0.008

0.005

2 Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours) 

0.054

0.043

0.048

0.064

0.043

0.051

0.032

0.044

0.027

0.034

2 Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours) 

0.049

0.040

0.031

0.086

0.050

0.041

0.030

0.029

0.030

0.026

2 Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours) 

0.051

0.041

0.038

0.077

0.047

0.044

0.031

0.035

0.029

0.029

2 Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours) 

2 Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)  

2 Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours) 

Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance) 

3,4 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands

4 Percent of workforce — outside the United States

4 Percent women — global workforce 

Percent management and professional new hires — women (campus and experienced) 

Percent management and professional new hires — outside the United States (campus and experienced)  

Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands 

Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars

0.37

0.49

0.43

N/A

80

63

25

39

69

48

69

0.32

0.39

0.36

69

81

63

26

38

63

52

71

0.25

0.34

0.30

62

84

60

26

40

70

61

77

0.30

0.41

0.37

70

82

61

26

44

79

65

80

0.25

0.37

0.33

63

77

59

28

39

68

76

88

0.22

0.32

0.29

62

75

59

28

39

66

87

96

0.19

0.29

0.26

65

75

58

28

40

61

79

0.21

0.26

0.24

74

73

59

28

41

61

85

0.16

0.23

0.20

64

71

59

28

44

74

83

117

124

108

0.14

0.22

0.19

63

70

60

28

41

67

98

94

31

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsManaging the risks of climate change*

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Performance data

5 Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

6 Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) 

7 Emissions associated with imported power

CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)

Methane (CO2-equivalent)

Other gases (CO2-equivalent)

Emissions from exported power and heat

By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

Africa/Europe/Middle East

Americas

Asia Pacific

By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

5 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100 metric tons of 
throughput or production

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Energy use (billion gigajoules)

Upstream (gigajoules per metric tons production)

Refining (gigajoules per metric tons throughput)

Chemical (gigajoules per metric tons product)

Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons

8 Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts

126

117

9

122

3

1

13

45

62

19

49

57

20

21.0

21.0

59.8

1.5

1.7

3.0

10.1

5.7

4.6

123

114

9

119

3

1

14

43

62

18

47

56

20

20.1

21.0

60.7

1.5

1.9

3.0

9.8

4.4

4.9

126

117

9

122

3

1

13

45

64

17

50

55

21

20.5

20.8

57.9

1.5

2.0

3.0

9.5

3.6

4.9

128

119

9

124

3

1

15

45

66

17

54

54

20

20.7

20.0

57.2

1.5

2.0

3.0

126

118

8

120

5

1

15

44

68

14

56

51

19

22.3

19.6

56.3

1.5

2.0

3.0

127

119

8

119

7

1

16

44

70

13

58

49

20

23.2

19.7

57.0

1.4

2.1

3.0

123

115

8

116

6

1

7

43

66

14

56

47

20

23.9

19.2

53.4

1.4

2.3

2.9

122

114

8

115

6

1

4

44

65

13

56

45

21

23.9

18.9

53.6

1.5

2.4

2.9

123

115

8

116

7

<1

3

44

63

16

57

45

21

24.3

19.5

52.2

1.5

2.4

3.0

122

114

8

115

7

<1

3

43

63

16

58

43

21

24.6

18.6

53.3

1.5

2.5

2.9

11.4

12.0

10.9

10.7

10.9

10.6

10.5

4.0

5.0

3.5

5.2

3.7

5.3

4.5

5.5

5.3

5.5

5.0

5.3

3.8

5.4

32

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental performance*

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

Performance data

8 Number of acres of managed wildlife habitat

Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel 

Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel

Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels

Other spills, thousands of barrels

Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons

Upstream

Downstream

Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons

Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons

Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars

370

N/A

350

0.1

0.9

2.6

0

211

20.3

0.4

1.8

1.3

0.5

0.19

0.15

0.20

5.2

380

N/A

340

0.1

0.9

2.5

0

242

17.4

0.5

1.4

1.1

0.3

0.16

0.13

0.18

5.1

6,400

6,900

7,000

7,000

7,200

7,100

7,200

7,200

N/A

330

0.1

0.9

2.4

0

210

7.7

40.4

1.3

1.1

0.2

0.14

0.12

0.18

4.5

540

370

0.3

0.9

2.6

0

484

17.8

2.0

1.3

1.1

0.2

0.13

0.15

0.18

4.9

520

330

0.3

0.8

2.4

0

420

280

0.2

0.7

2.0

0

420

270

0.2

0.7

1.8

0

356

331

334

8.5

1.6

1.2

1.0

0.2

0.13

0.14

0.15

5.5

9.3

0.9

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.12

0.14

0.15

6.0

9.1

4.1

1.3

1.2

0.1

0.10

0.14

0.16

6.2

450

300

0.4

0.7

1.8

0

319

10.8

0.4

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.11

0.14

0.16

5.7

440

290

0.3

0.8

1.7

0

450

300

0.4

0.8

1.7

0

220

205

4.7

3.7

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.11

0.13

0.15

4.9

6.9

1.8

1.7

1.6

0.1

0.10

0.13

0.14

4.7

Total dollars spent on environmental penalties, fines and settlements, billions of dollars

0.011

0.002

0.011

0.003

0.004

0.002

0.018

0.015

0.006

0.001

Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons

9 Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons

0.2

0.4

1.2

0.8

0.6

1.3

1.3

1.9

1.7

2.0

1.1

0.3

1.0

0.3

1.4

0.2

1.4

0.1

1.5

0.2

Community engagement and human rights

10 Community investments, millions of dollars

225.2

235.0

237.1

278.4

255.6

269.5

279.5

272.3

241.5

204.0

United States

Rest of world

144.6

143.0

154.8

161.3

156.5

156.3

150.2

145.5

131.1

125.3

80.6

92.0

82.3

117.1

99.1

113.2

129.3

126.8

110.4

76.7

33

2017 Sustainability Report Highlights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local development and supply chain management

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

11 ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars

615

887

841

1,068

1,001

1,024

1,108

1,064

1,442

1,902

Performance data

Corporate governance

12 Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries

Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting

Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars

8

84.8

0.45

8

82.9

0.49

7

80.7

1.10

7

81.9

0.51

7

83.0

1.03

9

82.3

0.70

10

82.9

1.17

11

83.9

0.58

15

85.1

0.52

18

85.7

0.51

Notes on performance table:

1 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2008 

8 Cumulative figure.

through 2017 all fatalities were injury-related.

2 Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information at the time of publication. Workforce 

local authority, which is approximately 70 to 95 percent of the reported figure in 2008-2012.

9 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one 

includes employees and contractors.

3 Reduction from 2011 primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business.

ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.

10 Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through 

4 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work 

11 Beginning in 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minority-

full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our 

owned businesses, women-owned businesses, small business-owned, lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned 

company-operated retail stores are not included.

businesses, veteran-owned businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned businesses and businesses owned by peoples 

5 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity 

greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2005 according to the new metric. The net equity 

12 In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence.

greenhouse gas metric includes direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports 

(including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for 

* Some uncertainty exists in performance data, depending on measurement methods. Data in the report and 

with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.

all our business operations, reflecting our percent ownership in an asset.

performance data table represent best available information at the time of publication. Performance data are reported 

for our affiliates and those operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Includes XTO 

6 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World 

Energy performance beginning in 2011. N/A is used to indicate that data are not available. 

Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1.

7 These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.

34

2017 Sustainability Report HighlightsExplore our complete 2017 Sustainability Report at

exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport

On the cover

ExxonMobil scientist Kelsey McNeely researching  

algae strains.

Exxon Mobil Corporation

Corporate Headquarters

5959 Las Colinas Blvd.

Irving, Texas 75039-2298

exxonmobil.com

