2016 Corporate Citizenship Report

2

0

1

6

E

X

X

O

N

M

O

B

I

L

C

O

R

P

O

R

A

T

I

O

N

C

O

R

P

O

R

A

T

E

C

I

T

I

Z

E

N

S

H

I

P

R

E

P

O

R

T

 
 
 
 
Zach Myers, ExxonMobil drilling engineer, aboard the Stena Carron drill ship offshore Georgetown, Guyana. 

Table of contents
Introduction ................................................................................................................................................................ 3

Chapter 1: Safety, health and the workplace ..................................................................................................... 11

Chapter 2: Managing climate change risks ........................................................................................................ 16

Chapter 3: Environmental performance ............................................................................................................. 25

Chapter 4: Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments  ....................................... 30

Case study: Growing the Gulf investment program ......................................................................................... 36

Chapter 5: Local development and supply chain management .................................................................... 37

Chapter 6: Corporate governance ....................................................................................................................... 42

Performance data ................................................................................................................................................... 46

This year, we have modified our Corporate Citizenship Report compared with prior reports. This PDF report focuses on our most 
material sustainability issues (see page 10) with links to additional content on exxonmobil.com, identified with an icon throughout 
the report. The expanded content on exxonmobil.com showcases our approach to managing key corporate citizenship topics and 
highlights additional 2016 examples of our activities.

On the cover:
Since 2000, ExxonMobil has spent approximately 
$8 billion to develop lower-emission energy solutions.

Throughout this report, additional content is 
available by clicking the icons below.

Corporate Citizenship Report  Policies and publications

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

2

IntroductionChairman’s letter
For 135 years, ExxonMobil has been built on strong business fundamentals, including operational excellence, 
technology leadership, financial discipline and a world-class workforce. These strengths have enabled us to 
safely and reliably deliver energy to our customers and value to our shareholders, even in the low-price environment 
that our industry has experienced recently. We are committed to doing what is in the best interests of our company 
and society. This requires us to remain focused on safety, environmental performance, community engagement 
and corporate governance. 

I am pleased to share ExxonMobil’s 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report, which details our performance and 
commitments in several key areas. As you will read, we continue to apply a rigorous, results-oriented approach 
to corporate citizenship in our business. 

Our efforts to protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and communities are at the heart of 
what we do every day. We strive to ensure Nobody Gets Hurt. We are proud to be an industry leader in safety 
culture and performance. In 2016, we achieved our best-ever workforce lost-time incident rate of 0.029 incidents 
per 200,000 work hours, an improvement of more than 80 percent compared to our performance in 2000.

As we provide the energy to meet growing needs around the world, we are also working to manage the risks 
of climate change. Climate change risks warrant action by businesses, governments and consumers, and we 
support the Paris Agreement as an effective framework for addressing this global challenge.

For our part, ExxonMobil continues to take action to mitigate our emissions and help consumers lessen their 
greenhouse gas impact. Since 2000, our investments to develop lower-emission energy solutions totaled 
about $8 billion. We are deploying technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage while 
researching next-generation energy sources such as algae biofuels. Continued research in technological 
breakthroughs will be critical to managing future environmental and climate change risks.

As a science and technology company with more than 2,200 Ph.D. scientists, we will continue pursuing 
technologies that benefit both our company and society. Through our research organization, I have seen the 
transformative power of innovation — I believe it is vital to achieving progress.

We also value our long-standing relationships with communities and host governments worldwide. We work 
to enhance the social benefits from our operations, placing an emphasis on hiring qualified local workers and 
supporting a variety of strategic community investments. In 2016, we contributed $242 million to communities 
around the world. 

I am proud of ExxonMobil’s corporate citizenship performance, and I look forward to building upon our 
progress to secure an even stronger future for our company and the society we serve.  

We welcome feedback from all of our stakeholders at exxonmobil.com/citizenship.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

3

Darren Woods 
Chairman and CEO

IntroductionAbout ExxonMobil

ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses

As the world’s largest publicly held oil and natural gas company, 
ExxonMobil uses technology and innovation to safely and 
responsibly deliver the energy and products the world needs. 
Every day, our employees work diligently to address the 
challenges of meeting growing global energy demand. 
In 2016, ExxonMobil supplied about 1.5 percent of the 
world’s energy demand, equivalent to about 10 percent 
of U.S. energy demand. The reliable and affordable energy 
we supply is vital to fueling economic activity and helping 
improve the living standards of people around the world.

As we make significant investments around the world to help 
meet the world’s growing energy needs, we also invest in 
the communities in which we work. In 2016, we contributed 
$242 million to communities around the world.

ExxonMobil has a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets, projects 
and resources across our Upstream, Downstream and Chemical 
businesses. Our technical expertise, global reach and integrated 
business model provide ExxonMobil with a competitive 
advantage. Our flexibility and focus on fundamentals enable 
us to deliver value irrespective of the industry environment.

In 2016, we continued to demonstrate strong financial and 
operating performance across our business despite very 
challenging industry conditions: 

•  Achieved earnings of $7.8 billion and return on average 

capital employed of 3.9 percent.

•  Spent $19.3 billion on capital and exploration expenditures.

•  Completed five major Upstream projects with a working

interest production capacity of almost 250,000 oil-equivalent 
barrels per day.

•  Made significant oil discoveries offshore Nigeria and Guyana, 

and a gas discovery onshore Papua New Guinea.

•  Progressed construction of a new hydrocracker project at

our refinery in Rotterdam, Netherlands.

•  Advanced construction of a world-scale specialty polymers 
facility in Singapore that will produce halobutyl rubber and 
performance resins.

For more in-depth analysis of our financial performance and 
investment decisions, see our 2016 Summary Annual Report 
and 2016 Financial and Operating Review.

Upstream 
We have an active exploration or production presence in 39 countries. 

We use our unique geoscience capabilities, technology and understanding of 
global hydrocarbon resources to identify and prioritize all quality opportunities.

Exploration

Production

Gas & Power 
Marketing

Upstream 
Research

Development

Downstream 
Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facilities in 14 countries. 

We are one of the largest integrated refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lube 
basestocks and a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished lubricants.

Refining & Supply

Fuels 
Marketing

Lubricants 
& Specialties

 Research & 
Engineering 

Chemical 
We manufacture high-quality chemical products in 16 countries. 

Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty businesses delivers strong 
returns across the business cycle. 

4.1

million oil-equivalent 
barrels of net oil and gas 
production per day1

5.5

million barrels of 
petroleum product 
sales per day2

24.9

million metric tons of 
prime product sales3

Intermediates

Synthetics

Plastics 
& Resins

Specialty 
Elastomer & Butyl

Basic Chemicals

1 Gas conversion to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet to equal 1,000 barrels.
2 Petroleum product sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.
3 Prime product sales are total product sales excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and 
finished-product transfers to the Downstream.

2016 Summary 
Annual Report

2016 Financial and 
Operating Review

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

4

IntroductionThe Outlook for Energy

The Outlook for Energy is ExxonMobil’s global view of energy demand and supply through 2040. We use the data and findings in this annual publication to help 
guide our long-term investments. It also highlights the dual challenge of providing the world with access to affordable and reliable energy supplies while reducing 
emissions to address the risks of climate change. We share The Outlook with the public to promote a better understanding of the issues shaping the world’s energy 
needs. Why is this important? Because energy is fundamental to modern life. It is critical to human progress and to improving living standards for 7.5 billion people 
across the globe, including those without electricity, clean running water and clean-burning cooking fuels.

The world’s energy to 2040: Seven things to know

Modern energy is one of mankind’s most complex endeavors, and its path is shaped by countless forces. We see seven key themes that will play a major role in 
defining our global energy landscape through 2040.

The Outlook for Energy: 
A View to 2040

Energy underpins economic growth:

High levels of growth mean rising living 
standards. Across the world, the middle 
class will more than double in the next 
15 years. As this growth accelerates so 
does consumption. Demand for energy 
increases with more people expecting 
access to air-conditioned homes, cars  
and appliances like refrigerators, 
dishwashers and smartphones.

Natural gas leads growth in energy:

Natural gas is the largest growing fuel 
source, providing a quarter of global 
energy demand by 2040. The abundance 
and versatility of natural gas is helping 
the world shift to less carbon-intensive 
energy for electricity generation while 
also providing an emerging option as a 
fuel for certain types of transportation.

Oil remains the world’s primary energy source:

Oil will continue to play a leading role in the 
energy mix with demand being driven by fuel for 
transportation and feedstock for the chemicals 
industry. These feedstocks help to make plastics 
and other advanced materials that provide 
advantages to manufacturers and consumers 
including energy efficiency gains.

Cost-effective options to reduce CO2 emissions:
Delivering on the increased demand for energy 
needs to go hand in hand with finding constructive
solutions that mitigate the risks of climate change. 
This is supported by the continuing shift to less 
carbon-intensive energy for power generation and 
increased energy efficiency in every sector. Global 
energy-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are 
likely to peak during the 2030s, even as global 
GDP doubles by 2040.

Non-OECD countries lead the way 
for energy demand:

Continuing urbanization in China and 
India, with people moving from rural 
areas to cities, will help to drive 
economic growth. China is likely to 
be the largest contributor of gross 
domestic product (GDP) gains.
India is also growing strongly with
its share of global GDP doubling.

The global energy mix is evolving:

As global economies grow and 
government policies change, the 
energy mix will continue to diversify. 
Nuclear and renewables will grow 
strongly and natural gas will grow the 
most. The diversification of energy 
supplies reflects economics and 
advanced technologies as well as 
policies aimed at reducing emissions.

The potential of technology:

As the pace of technology development continues to 
accelerate, new — and still uncertain — solutions are likely to 
emerge to contribute to meeting energy and environmental 
goals. Recent advances in technology are promoting energy 
efficiency gains to slow demand growth, and also opening 
up new energy supply options including unconventional oil 
and natural gas, nuclear and renewables.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

5

IntroductionSustainability

Stakeholder engagement

Sustainability is critical to our business. At ExxonMobil, we 
work to expand the supplies of reliable and affordable energy 
needed for economic progress. In doing so, we take a balanced 
approach that considers the impact of our operations on local 
economies, communities and the environment. We design our 
approach to sustainability around six key areas:

• Safety, health and the workplace 
• Managing climate change risks 
• Environmental performance 
• Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 
• Local development and supply chain management 
• Corporate governance

ExxonMobil is committed to aligning our long-term business 
objectives with these six areas.

In September 2015, the United Nations published the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), providing a framework 
for governments, civil society and business to work together in 
progressing sustainability. The SDGs cover a range of sustainable 
development issues — through 17 goals and specific targets — 
that will inform countries’ planning through 2030. ExxonMobil, as 
a major provider of reliable and affordable energy and a partner 
in community health, education and economic development, 
helps achieve progress in many of the areas set forth in the SDGs.

O

S

C I A L
nity engage m e n t, 
n rights an d
gic investm e nts

a
m
u
h

u
m
m
o
C

te
a
r
t
s

S a f e t y,  health and
t h e   workplace

g

C

o

o

v

r

e

p

r

o

n

r

a

a

n

t

e

c

e

SUSTAINABILITY

E

C
O
N
O
M
I
C

t
n
e
m
p

n
ai
h

t
n
e
m

L o cal develo
a nd supply c
m anage

M

a

n

c

a

h

g

i

n

a

n

g

g

e

c

li

m

r
i
s

k

s

E

N

V

IR

a

t

e

Environme n t a l
performa n c e

O

N

MENT

We recognize the significant responsibilities we have to our 
shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities as we 
find ways to bring affordable energy to the global market. For 
a company of our size and scope, building and maintaining 
relationships with a diverse group of stakeholders is critical. 
Regular stakeholder engagement helps us understand a variety 
of perspectives and improve our company’s performance.

Because our business directly affects many people around the 
world, we seek to understand their viewpoints. We interact 
with our diverse stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms, 
including community meetings, web and social media content, 
corporate publications, and one-on-one and group discussions. 
Examples of stakeholder engagement are included throughout 
this report. The following list provides examples of common 
areas of interest.

Communities
Community development; economic development; grievance 
management; human rights; operational impacts; 
environmental performance

Customers
Product safety and sustainability; supply chain management; 
greenhouse gas emissions

Employees
Benefits; diversity; development opportunities; safety, health 
and wellness

Governments
Taxes and other revenue sources; climate change; local supplier 
development; job creation; human rights; impact assessments; 
ethics; health; education; energy supply and security

Nongovernmental organizations
Biodiversity; water management; climate change; human rights; 
transparency; social issues

Shareholders
Governance practices; board composition; policy engagement; 
risk management; climate change

Suppliers
Expectations for suppliers; local business opportunities; 
supplier diversity; capacity building; environmental performance

External Citizenship 
Advisory Panel 

ExxonMobil’s External Citizenship Advisory Panel (ECAP) 
provides an annual independent review of the company’s 
corporate citizenship activities, including this report. The ECAP 
consists of academics, nongovernmental organization (NGO) 
representatives and former government employees who have 
expertise in social, governance and environmental topics. In 
addition to providing input on ExxonMobil’s annual Corporate 
Citizenship Report, the ECAP discusses key topics with company 
executives at least once a year. We thank Sarah Labowitz for 
sharing her perspectives with us as a member of the panel 
from 2014 to 2016.

Mark Cohen
Professor of Management and Law 
Vanderbilt University Owen Graduate School of Management

Frank Loy
Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs 
U.S. Department of State

Jane Nelson
Director of Corporate Responsibility Initiative 
Harvard University Kennedy School of Government

Salil Tripathi
Senior Adviser, Global Issues 
Institute for Human Rights and Business

ECAP members visited XTO Energy operations near 
Fort Worth, Texas, as part of the panel’s December 2016 
meeting with executives. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

6

Introduction 
 
    
External Citizenship Advisory Panel statement

ECAP statement on 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report

To the readers of this report,

As in prior years, we were asked to share our independent 
opinion on ExxonMobil’s 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report. 
We reviewed and provided feedback on a draft of the report. 
In addition, we had the opportunity to engage across all levels 
of the company, including senior business executives, through 
in-person meetings, a site visit to XTO Energy Inc., telephone 
and email to discuss policy and strategy issues.

This letter is not an official endorsement of the report, the 
corporation or its policies and strategies, but rather our 
individual and collective views on the quality and progress 
made in ExxonMobil’s citizenship reporting and transparency. 
In recognition of the time spent, ExxonMobil provided a 
donation on behalf of the panelists to nonprofit organizations 
of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses.

We would also like to recognize the valuable contribution of 
our colleague, Sarah Labowitz, who resigned from the ECAP 
in late 2016, and wish her well. 

2016 Commentary

Taking strategic action and engaging with critics on 
climate change

As one of society’s greatest challenges, climate change 
requires urgent action on the part of governments, business 
and civil society. The 2015 Paris Agreement, the world’s first 
comprehensive climate agreement, adopted in the presence 
of leaders of 195 countries, became effective in 2016. 
ExxonMobil states that it shares the Paris Agreement’s view 
of the seriousness of climate change, and we commend the 
company for urging the new U.S. administration to remain a 
party to the Agreement.

However, the company is engaged in a legal and public dispute 
with visible social actors centering on what the company knew 
about the implications of climate change, and when and what 
it decided to do about it. Although the company has every 
right to defend itself in the litigation, these criticisms highlight 
the need for more proactive and constructive dialogue with 
critics. The panel suggests that ExxonMobil’s credibility on this 
issue would be strengthened if it took additional measures to 
promote public policies that reduce climate change-inducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, such as taking a leadership 
role to bring about a revenue-neutral carbon tax. Further, 
the company may want to more explicitly describe how it 

is aligning its long-term corporate strategy and research 
priorities with climate change risks and opportunities. Since 
this letter was originally drafted based on 2016 company 
performance, we take note of significant movements in that 
regard, such as the recent letter to the President urging 
continued U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement, the 
company’s participation as a founding member of the Climate 
Leadership Council, and the appointment to the board of 
Susan Avery, a climate scientist. 

Providing more data context and comparative analysis

We appreciate ExxonMobil’s robust reporting, including the 
synthesis of its quantitative performance through a summary 
data table. To enhance its reporting, ExxonMobil could 
explain why the particular metrics reported were chosen 
and how they align with methodological sources such as the 
Global Reporting Initiative, IPIECA, CDP, reporting under the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, etc. It is also important to show both aggregate and 
normalized metrics similar to the approach taken for emissions 
or injury rates.

Lastly, additional context could be provided to demonstrate 
the strength of performance over time and, where 
appropriate, comparative performance with industry 
standards or competitors.

Leading voluntary initiatives

The current regulatory landscape for a range of environmental, 
social, human rights and governance issues is complex and 
uncertain. In times such as this, it is particularly important that 
leading companies take proactive and constructive voluntary 
actions. With this in mind, the company may want to play a 
greater role in supporting collective action and advocacy on 
key issues and report on what it is doing. For example, we 
commend ExxonMobil’s decade-long leadership in revenue 
transparency and encourage the company to continue to take 
a strong position on this topic, including ongoing support 
for initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative, despite the potential repeal of the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Section 1504. 

We applaud ExxonMobil’s recent advocacy efforts on 
amendments to the Toxic Substances Control Act. In other 
areas where regulations may be rolled back, it will be 
important for the company to discuss its position and the 
extent to which it supports regulatory or voluntary initiatives.

Lastly, ExxonMobil has developed an impressive suite of 
national content programs, encompassing skills development, 
local businesses and strategic community investment. We 
encourage the company to continue to strengthen these 
strategies and communicate how it is aligning itself with 
national development goals in countries of operation and with 
the Sustainable Development Goals.

Keeping pace with the maturing human rights landscape

With the maturing of human rights initiatives, there is a need 
for the company to keep pace in responding to stakeholder 
expectations and building industry-wide or multi-stakeholder 
coalitions to address human rights issues. As a participant 
in the Voluntary Principles (VPs) on Security and Human 
Rights, we encourage ExxonMobil to share good practices and 
lessons learned and participate actively in efforts to develop 
common standards of performance. This will be particularly 
important as the VPs shift to on-the-ground implementation. 
The company is right in letting its suppliers and contractors 
know about what it expects from them with regard to human 
rights initiatives such as the VPs. In the future, ExxonMobil 
should communicate the extent to which these expectations 
are part of supply contract requirements.

Lastly, the company should continue to reach its own 
decisions, but it should engage in a meaningful dialogue with 
affected stakeholders, including critics, and respond to the 
feedback it receives.

Leadership transition

As the bar continues to rise for good corporate citizenship, 
ExxonMobil will face increasingly higher expectations from 
investors and other stakeholders related to the company’s 
management of environmental, social and governance issues. 
Strong leadership is more important than ever to demonstrate 
a sound management approach to these issues. Early 2017 
brought a number of important leadership changes to the 
company, including the appointment of two new board 
members, as well as a new chairman and CEO. These changes 
reflect a diversity of gender, background and perspective, 
which we hope will better position the company to address 
these demands. We welcome these new leaders and look 
forward to working with them and the company’s senior 
executives as they set the direction for the years ahead. 

Sincerely,

Mark Cohen, Frank Loy, Jane Nelson, Salil Tripathi

June 2017

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

7

IntroductionDiscussion of challenges on key issues
ExxonMobil announced significant oil discoveries 
offshore Guyana. How does ExxonMobil approach social, 
environmental and safety considerations when starting 
offshore development and production activities?

What is ExxonMobil doing to promote respect for human 
rights within its operations and in the supply chain?

ExxonMobil actively promotes respect for human rights everywhere 
we work. We operate in some challenging environments where 

We work in over 100 countries around the world that span a wide 

human rights issues — such as security, land and water access, 

range of natural, economic and social conditions. In some places, 

forced labor and treatment of indigenous peoples — are a key 

our industry has had a long presence. In others, oil and natural gas 

concern to local communities. We believe the quality of the 

is an emerging sector. Everywhere we work, we are committed 

relationships we develop with local communities has a direct 

to conducting business in a manner that is compatible with the 

impact on the long-term success of our activities, and that 

environmental and economic needs of the communities in which 

our business presence can and does have a positive influence. 

we operate. 

When we go into a new country for our major Upstream projects, 

we conduct research and engage with local stakeholders including 

government, communities and local experts to develop a thorough 

We work with suppliers and business partners who share our 

commitment to human rights. We also actively engage with host 

governments to support security and respect for human rights in 

and near our operations.

understanding of current conditions from a safety, social and 

In 2016, we made progress in a number of human rights-related areas:

environmental perspective. During this process, we undertake 

environmental, socioeconomic and health assessments to 

understand the potential impacts from our operations. We 

incorporate this understanding into our project design and 

management plans to effectively mitigate risks. Such assessments 

are often required by host-country governments, but we go through 

the process even when it is not mandatory. This allows us to 

identify opportunities and risks early on in the planning process 

and take appropriate steps.

We followed this approach in Guyana, where in 2015 ExxonMobil 

announced the first major oil and gas discovery in the country. 

Prior to drilling even the first exploration well, ExxonMobil engaged 

with government and community stakeholders, including local 

scientists and experts, to build an understanding of our potential 

project impacts and appropriate protective measures.  

We also consulted with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission 

and the Guyana Environmental Protection Agency to develop a 

technical workshop series on oil and gas development, globally 

recognized best practices, international standards and environmental 

management technologies. Our partnership will help Guyana 

develop the capabilities it needs to manage oil and gas development, 

and we will continue working with local stakeholders through the 

duration of our project in the country.

•  We published our ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of
guidelines for our contractors and suppliers that covers human 
rights. These Expectations include references to key international 
human rights frameworks such as the United Nations Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International 
Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work. Starting in 2017, the Supplier Expectations will 
become part of ExxonMobil’s annual letter to our suppliers.

•  We supported the creation of an in-country network to support 
the further implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights in Nigeria. This network will enhance local 
collaboration on security and human rights among governments, 

nongovernmental organizations, companies and other stakeholders.

•  We continued to train our workforce on human rights issues. For 
example, since late 2015, more than 1,200 of our key employees 

in 46 countries have completed our new computer-based human 

rights training.

Suzanne McCarron, ExxonMobil vice president of public and 
government affairs, has worldwide responsibility for the company’s 
public policy, government relations, communications, media 
relations and corporate citizenship activities. Suzanne authors the 
Perspectives blog on our Energy Factor website, which encourages 
discourse on constructive solutions to energy challenges.

There have been several safety incidents associated with 
contract labor in the oil and gas sector. What is ExxonMobil 
doing to ensure its contractors receive the same safety 
training as its employees?

Our efforts are driven by our world-class Operations Integrity 
Management System. This system sets the foundation for our 
company’s focus on safety throughout our worldwide operations. 

Employees and contractors alike are properly trained to perform 

their work in a safe manner.

We develop work plans tailored to our projects to ensure our 

workers get both the basic and specialized safety training they 

need for their specific jobs. We provide standardized training at 

regional safety training centers and work directly with contractors to 

make sure everyone working at our sites understands ExxonMobil’s 

safety procedures and is competent to perform assigned tasks 

prior to starting work. For higher-risk activities, we have more 

stringent expectations, such as requiring certification prior to 

engaging in a particular activity. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

8

IntroductionIn some locations, we have helped build training centers where none 

application, validation and implementation processes in countries 

Greater energy efficiency is also essential to addressing the risks 

previously existed. For example, we sponsored Survival Systems 

where we operate, and we are working with governments in a 

of climate change. It might seem surprising, but a big part of 

Training Limited in Nova Scotia, Canada. This organization provides 

number of other countries that are considering joining EITI. We 

ExxonMobil’s business is developing products and technologies 

training to employees and contractors working offshore on topics 

will continue to work constructively with governments 

that help save energy. Examples include our advanced automotive  

such as helicopter safety and firefighting. 

considering new reporting rules to promote transparency and 

materials that make cars lighter and more fuel-efficient, and 

improved plastic packaging that reduces the energy needed to 
ship goods around the world.

At the same time, the world will need breakthrough clean-energy 

technologies such as carbon capture and storage (CCS). ExxonMobil 

is investing heavily in CCS, including research in a novel technology 

that uses fuel cells that could make CCS more affordable and 

expand its use. We currently have an interest in a quarter of the 

world’s CCS capacity.

We’re also investing in a broad portfolio of other technologies that 

could significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This includes 

pioneering research in next-generation biofuels, including sources like 

algae, which could reduce emissions without competing with food 

and water resources. And by installing equipment at our refineries 

and chemical plants to generate steam from waste heat — called 

cogeneration — we enable 6 million metric tons of greenhouse gases 

to be avoided each year. All told, we’ve invested approximately 

$8 billion since 2000 to develop lower-emission energy solutions.

As our chairman and CEO Darren Woods has said, climate change 

is a serious topic, and it demands a serious approach. ExxonMobil 

is proud to be part of that discussion, and we will continue to be in 

the years ahead.

ExxonMobil Energy Factor

Safety briefings conducted at our operating sites give employees 

and contractors an opportunity to share safety observations and 

encourage safe behaviors.

In addition, our procurement staff uses safety criteria to screen 

potential contractors that will be working on construction projects 

or at our major operations. The guidelines include having a robust 

safety program and leadership commitment to strong safety 

performance. Our goal is to work with companies to promote 

excellent safety performance across all aspects of our business.

revenue accountability where we do business.

Over the past year, ExxonMobil has been questioned about 
its research and positions regarding climate change. How 
is the company responding to the investigations in New 
York and Massachusetts?

In late 2015 and 2016, the state attorneys general from New York 

and Massachusetts launched investigations into our past research 

and policy positions on climate change. We reject allegations 

that ExxonMobil suppressed climate change research or misled 

Our strong safety culture has proven results. For example, our 

consumers or investors. We are responding in good faith while we 

global contractor lost-time incident rate continues to be well 

continue to vigorously challenge the legality of the investigations. 

below the industry average.

In light of the recent repeal of the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission’s 2016 final rule regarding 
payment reporting for the extractive industry, how will 
ExxonMobil work to promote transparency and revenue 
accountability in countries where it does business?

ExxonMobil believes the most successful transparency initiatives are 

those that ensure each relevant public, private and societal entity 

is fully engaged and properly represented. In addition, initiatives 

must respect national sovereignty and local norms and apply to 

every company in all sectors: public, private, foreign and domestic. 

Therefore, we did not support the approach the U.S. Securities 

and Exchange Commission took in its final rule in late 2016.

As of May 2017, the company has provided more than 2.8 million 

pages of documents in response. We look forward to an outcome 

that will put these false allegations to rest.

ExxonMobil is a constructive participant in the discussion on climate 

change. We will continue to research the issue, support energy 

efficiency, work to reduce emissions, pursue new technologies 

and engage on effective policy approaches.

Last fall you stated that the Paris Agreement was an 
“important step forward.” What is ExxonMobil doing to 
address the risks of climate change?

The Paris Agreement signed by world leaders in 2016 showed 

the global community’s resolve to address climate change risks. 

We’re encouraged that the Paris Agreement creates an effective 

ExxonMobil supports transparency initiatives that increase 

framework for all countries to address rising emissions. In fact, our 

government engagement with citizens and improve governance 

company’s forecasts of greenhouse gas emissions are consistent 

and revenue accountability. We voluntarily disclose revenues paid 

with the aggregation of the Paris Agreement pledges.

to governments for the development of natural resources, subject 

to legal and contractual restrictions. Our long-standing efforts 

to promote revenue transparency help to reduce corruption, 

improve government accountability and promote greater economic 

stability worldwide. 

The world already has powerful tools for meeting growing global 

energy demand while reducing emissions. One is natural gas. 

Today in the United States, nearly one-third of the electricity is 

produced using natural gas. Our role as the country’s largest 

producer of natural gas — which can reduce carbon dioxide 

For many years, we have actively supported the Extractive 

emissions by 60 percent versus power generation from coal — has 

Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global program 

helped bring carbon dioxide emissions in the United States to the 

dedicated to strengthening governance by improving transparency 

and accountability in the extractives sector. We support the EITI 

lowest level since the early 1990s. Increasing use of natural gas 
means our overall energy mix is becoming less carbon intensive.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

9

IntroductionAbout this report and materiality
About this report

We developed the 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report in 
accordance with the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA 
(the global oil and gas industry association for environmental 
and social issues), the International Association of Oil and 
Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American Petroleum Institute 
(API). ExxonMobil was a key contributor to IPIECA, IOGP and 
API’s updated Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting (2015), and this report reflects the 
new common reporting-level metrics. The majority of these 
indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines; this report is informed by the G4 
guidelines but has not been prepared in accordance with a 
particular GRI model. To help interested stakeholders easily 
access our key sustainability indicators, we have mapped 
relevant IPIECA, GRI and United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG) indicators on our website. Note 
that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing 
this report continue to evolve and are based on management 
assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of 
preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.

2016 material issues
Safety, health and the workplace
• Emergency preparedness and response
• Employee benefits and practices
• Personnel and process safety 
• Product safety and responsibility
• Product transportation safety
• Workforce engagement
• Workplace security
• Worksite health and wellness

Managing climate change risks
• Developing technology solutions
• Engaging on climate change policy
• Mitigating emissions
• Providing solutions for customers

Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting

IPIECA/GRI/SDG index

This report covers ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 
2016, through December 31, 2016, unless otherwise indicated. 
The report uses both qualitative descriptions and quantitative 
metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and 
performance. For environmental and climate change data, units 
of measure are metric where noted. Financial information is 
reported in U.S. dollars. For information on forward-looking 
statements in the 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report, please 
see the cautionary note on the back cover.

To learn more about our corporate citizenship initiatives, 
view previous reports or provide comments, please visit 
exxonmobil.com/citizenship or email 
citizenship@exxonmobil.com.

Materiality

A key step in developing this Corporate Citizenship Report 
is ensuring the content reflects ExxonMobil’s most material 
issues. According to IPIECA, material issues for sustainability 

Environmental performance
• Air emissions
• Biodiversity and ecosystem services
•  Decommissioning and rehabilitation 

of the environment

• Environmental compliance
• Environmental management approach
• Spill performance
• Water management

Community engagement, human rights 
and strategic investments 
• Community relations
• External stakeholder engagement
• Human rights
• Indigenous peoples

reporting are those that, in the view of both the company’s 
management and its external stakeholders, have the potential 
to affect sustainability performance significantly. ExxonMobil 
has been conducting a materiality assessment to guide our 
reporting since 2006. 

For this 2016 report, we reevaluated and prioritized key 
sustainability issues for our business and key stakeholders. 
A cross-functional team of ExxonMobil managers reviewed 
stakeholder feedback and business information to prioritize 
sustainability issues. The issues that are most critical to the 
success of our business and to stakeholder interest are covered 
in detail in this report. Additional information is available on 
exxonmobil.com and in other company publications. Please 
see our IPIECA/GRI/SDG index for a detailed mapping of 
where information regarding all material issues is located. 
Our draft materiality assessment results were reviewed and 
updated by internal subject matter experts and the External 
Citizenship Advisory Panel during fall 2016. Note that the 
concept of “material issues” under IPIECA guidelines used 
for purposes of this report is not meant to correspond to the 
concept of materiality for purposes of securities laws and 
disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission’s rules. Our material issues are listed below.

Local development and supply chain management
• Local economic growth and development
• Supply chain management

Corporate governance
• Board leadership
• Ethics and integrity
• Executive compensation and strategic advantage
• Political advocacy and contributions
• Shareholder relations
• Transparency

Business operations (included throughout report)
• Energy future and portfolio management
• Management systems
• Operating in sensitive environments

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

10

IntroductionHeath Eddins, facility plant superintendent, inspects equipment at our LaBarge gas plant in Wyoming.

1 Safety, health and 

the workplace

Safety

A commitment to safety is a core value and an integral part 
of ExxonMobil’s culture. Our aim is to ensure each employee 
and contractor leaves work each day safe and in good health. 
We will never stop working toward our goal of Nobody Gets 
Hurt. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to 
managing safety, including our Operations Integrity Management 
System, visit our safety and security webpage. 

Safety and security

Personnel safety 

ExxonMobil expects every employee and third-party contractor 
to identify, assess and mitigate the risks associated with our 
daily operations. In 2016, we achieved our best-ever safety 
performance. We have reduced our workforce lost-time incident 
rate by more than 80 percent since 2000.

While this number is declining, safety incidents and near-misses 
do occur. We deeply regret that three contractors were fatally 

Safety

Workforce 
engagement 

Worksite health 
and wellness 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

11

Safety, health and the workplaceinjured in separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations 
in 2016. The incidents were related to a maintenance accident 
at one of our facilities, an incident at one of our onshore drilling 
sites and an incident aboard a marine vessel preparing to offload 
supplies at one of our offshore platforms. We thoroughly 
investigated each incident to determine contributing factors, 
then enhanced our work practices and facilities accordingly 
to help prevent future occurrences. We have processes in 
place to review all incidents, even those that did not result in 
injuries, to identify opportunities to improve. By applying this 
process, we continuously work toward our goal of Nobody 
Gets Hurt. For additional information on third-party supplier 
and contractor safety, see the personnel safety section of our 
safety and security webpage. 

The Hoover-Diana platform in the Gulf of Mexico.

Safety and security

Process safety 

ExxonMobil takes a comprehensive approach to managing 
process safety. Process safety refers to the equipment, 

procedures and training that prevent the uncontrolled release 
of hydrocarbons and hazardous substances. We identify then 
eliminate or mitigate process safety risks associated with our 
operations by employing structured processes and procedures 
that serve as preventive safeguards and help us avoid incidents. 
For information on Tier 1 process safety events, visit the process 
safety section of our safety and security webpage. 

Safety and security

ExxonMobil is committed to working with scientists and local 
partners to develop and commercialize technologies that 
enhance process safety. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil 
Research Qatar, in partnership with Providence Photonics 
LLC, conducted field tests of a remote gas detection system 
in Qatar. The system provides a highly sensitive and accurate 
early warning of hydrocarbon leaks. We evaluated the 
system’s durability and performance by challenging it in 
various environmental conditions such as high heat and 
humidity, dust, sand and dense fog during the field test. 

Up Close:
Hoover-Diana celebrates 
personnel and process 
safety success

One of the most significant measures of success for 
ExxonMobil is our safety performance. In 1998, 
ExxonMobil began working to develop the Hoover-Diana 
field, a deepwater oil and gas development located in the 
Gulf of Mexico. At the time of completion, the platform 
was the first floating drilling and production platform to 
develop two fields simultaneously at a depth of 4,800 
feet of water. This engineering feat required diligent 
personnel and process safety management. ExxonMobil 
personnel have successfully completed more than 950 
work-years of safe operations at the platform.

“I am proud of the best-ever safety 
performance we achieved in 2016. Even 
so, there is still room for improvement, 
and we will never stop working toward 
our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt.”

Lynne Lachenmyer
Safety, security, health and environment 
vice president

Lost-time incident rate1

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

Total recordable incident rate2

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013 2014 2015 2016

1.0

0.90

0.80

0.70

0.60

0.50

0.40

0.30

0.20

0.10

0

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 2014 2015

2016

ExxonMobil workforce

American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmark

ExxonMobil workforce

American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmark

In 2016, our workforce lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.029,
a decrease from the previous year. Over the past decade, we have reduced this 
rate by 40 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. 
petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below
the industry average.

In 2016, ExxonMobil’s total recordable workforce incident rate per 200,000 work 
hours was 0.20, a slight decrease from 2015. Since 2007, we have reduced this 
rate by 47 percent. When compared with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. 
petroleum industry workforce benchmark, ExxonMobil continues to be below the 
industry average.

1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries 
 and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, illness-related incidents range
 from 2 to 13 percent.

2Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries 
 and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, illness-related incidents range
 from 3 to 10 percent.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

12

Safety, health and the workplaceProduct stewardship

Product transportation safety 

We recognize the importance of managing and communicating 
product safety information to those who handle and use 
ExxonMobil products. Our Product Stewardship Information 
Management System applies common global processes and 
computer systems to capture and communicate information 
on the safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our 
products, as well as emergency contact information. 

This System enables ExxonMobil businesses to comply with 
changing regional and national hazard communication 
regulations, including the adoption of the Globally Harmonized 
System of Classification and Labelling Chemicals developed by 
the United Nations. As of year-end 2016, more than 55,000 
safety data sheets for ExxonMobil products and manufacturing 
streams were authored and distributed as part of the 
implementation of this guidance by national and regional 
regulatory authorities in several countries. Due to the evolving 
nature of regulatory requirements, we continually monitor 
developments to make sure our products comply with 
applicable regulations.

2016 emergency response data

At ExxonMobil, we routinely train emergency support group 
personnel on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated 
spills, fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. 
In 2016, our activities included the following:

21

Emergency support 
group training sessions 

577

ExxonMobil personnel

As part of our commitment to product stewardship, we manage 
the safety, health and environmental aspects of transporting our 
products, including by marine, pipeline and rail transportation. 
ExxonMobil’s worldwide marine business, which involves 
about 500 vessels in daily service, logged more than 20,000 
voyages and 45,000 port calls in 2016, safely transporting 
approximately 1.4 billion barrels of crude oil and refined 
products, without a spill to water. The ExxonMobil Pipeline 
Company and its affiliates safely transport almost 3 million 
barrels per day of crude oil, refined products and other 
important products. We operate approximately 4,000 miles 
of active pipelines in the United States every day. We carefully 
maintain and monitor our infrastructure worldwide to identify 
and prevent corrosion, third-party damage or illegal intrusions 
onto our rights of way. For information on utilization of rail 
transport for crude oil, please see the product transportation 
safety section of our safety and security webpage.

Safety and security

Emergency preparedness and response

ExxonMobil maintains a strong emphasis on training for 
effective emergency response capabilities. We establish 
strategic emergency support groups (ESGs) around the world 
to develop and practice emergency response strategies and 
assist field responders. Regardless of the size of an incident, 
each ExxonMobil facility and business unit has access to an 
array of trained responders, including our regional response 
teams (RRT), which provide rapid tactical support when 
needed. Each RRT participates in annual training programs 
with business line personnel, response organizations and 
relevant government authorities in the designated region.

Severe wildfires in 2016 resulted in one of the largest 
fire-related evacuations in Canadian history, impacting 
residents in 12 local communities and requiring production 
to be shut down at Imperial Oil’s Kearl oil sands mine and 
at its Syncrude joint venture operation. Imperial Oil is a 
majority-owned affiliate of ExxonMobil.

In response, an ESG was assembled by Imperial Oil to manage 
the impacts to our business and support efforts of the Alberta 
government to help the community. The ESG supported the 
evacuation of approximately 3,000 people without incident, 
developed an air quality monitoring process and conducted 

regular communications with employees and the community 
to ensure their needs were being met. In support of the 
community, the Imperial Oil Foundation also donated 
$100,000 to the Canadian Red Cross, gasoline to the Royal 
Canadian Mounted Police and accommodations for evacuated 
employees, their families and other impacted residents of 
Northern Alberta. 

“Since the beginning of the evacuation in 
May 2016, Imperial Oil employees were 
in contact with Fort McKay First Nation 
to lend their support and ensure the 
health and safety of our community. 
The commitment of Imperial Oil employees 
to assisting Fort McKay during this crisis 
is something to be commended.” 

Chief Jim Bouchier
Fort McKay First Nation

Worksite health and wellness

ExxonMobil promotes a work environment that helps 
our employees and their families pursue healthy lifestyles, 
including prevention of infectious diseases. Our goal is to 
address the diverse health risks prevalent in the locations 
where we operate and to protect the health, safety and 
productivity of our workers while preserving our business 
operations. We have addressed the threats of malaria, 
tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, Ebola, Zika and other outbreaks in 
our workplace through effective and efficient prevention 
and control programs. Since 2007, no malaria deaths have 
been reported among our workers. Additionally, none of the 
approximately 100 active tuberculosis cases diagnosed in our 
workforce since 2010 have infected another worker on our 
sites, and no operational disruption has been reported due to 
an outbreak during that time. For information on ExxonMobil’s 
Culture of Health program, which supports the health, safety 
and wellness of our employees, please visit our health and 
wellness webpage.

Health and wellness

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

13

Safety, health and the workplaceWorkforce engagement 

ExxonMobil maintains a culture of diversity and inclusion, upholds 
disciplined employment practices, and offers robust training 
and benefit programs that promote employee retention. We 
cultivate a diverse workforce of highly talented individuals who 
are dedicated to integrity and high-quality work. We support 
voluntary, employee-led networks that foster a culture of 
diversity and inclusion by offering development programs, 
community service opportunities and mentoring. For information 
on ExxonMobil’s employment practices, see our employment 
practices webpage. 

Employment practices

Within ExxonMobil’s executive employee population, 18 percent 
are women. This represents an increase of 50 percent over the 
past decade. This increase, in part, is a result of continued focus on 
early identification and focused development of high-performing 
female employees. Additionally, approximately 15 percent of 
our U.S. executives are minorities, an increase of 79 percent 
over the past 10 years, facilitated by a consistent focus on 
minority management development. For information on our 
local hiring practices outside the United States, see page 38.

To increase the representation of minorities and female 
employees in our U.S. operations, we implement a wide range 
of education programs and recruiting activities intended to 
reach a diverse pool of highly qualified candidates. In 2016, 

“I was fortunate to be involved as a founding 
member of the Asian Connection for 
Excellence (ACE) chapter at the Chemical 
Company headquarters in Houston. 
When I relocated to Beaumont, Texas, 
I realized the need to establish a chapter 
in Beaumont as well. Understanding 
inclusion and diversity is one of the most 
important aspects in conducting business. 
ExxonMobil recognizes the importance 
of having an open dialogue about cultural 
differences and how that drives better 
business results.” 

Matthew Lim
ExxonMobil Chemical Company aromatics 
technical supervisor

we provided 38 technical scholarships to minorities across 
the United States. Additionally, 43 percent of engineering 
hires in the United States were women, higher than the U.S. 
percentage of female engineering students. For additional 
information on the percentage of women and minorities by 
position in the United States, see the performance data table. 

As a global organization, the diversity and inclusion of thought, 
skill, knowledge and culture across our company facilitates 
innovation and is a key competitive advantage. As demand for 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics workers 
continues to increase worldwide, we support immigration 
policies that will help U.S. companies fill their high-skilled 
workforce needs.

ExxonMobil offers robust corporate and technical training 
programs designed to engage employees in professional 
development. Our major business units spent $108 million 
on training employees during 2016. Of that, we directed 76 
percent toward professional and technical training. In 2016, 
more than 4,600 employees at various levels of the company 
participated in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training 
programs, of which 32 percent were women and 58 percent 
were employees from outside the United States. For additional 
information on training expenditures and the number of 
employees trained, please see the performance data table. 

We retain and develop our diverse workforce by providing an 
environment where personal and professional growth is 
encouraged and career objectives are developed and achieved. 
For additional information on ExxonMobil’s employment 
policies, as well as our approach to retention and engagement, 
please see our workforce engagement webpage.

Workforce engagement

Up Close:
Promoting Zika awareness 
and preparedness among 
ExxonMobil employees

We believe proactive communication and awareness 
is critical to limiting the consequences of outbreaks on 
worker health, productivity and business operations. In 
2016, the World Health Organization declared Zika a 
Public Health Emergency of International Concern. 

We established a corporate working group to educate 
our workers on prevention, preparedness and response 
techniques across our global worksites. Preparedness 
strategies included mitigation in active Zika areas, 
traveler notification of potential risks, and employee 
access to referrals for Zika diagnosis and treatment. 
Additionally, ExxonMobil took proactive steps at all 
potentially impacted sites to establish mosquito control 
plans and to identify a site Zika contact in worksites 
located in high-risk areas. In 2016, 40 employees and 
contractors were impacted by the Zika virus. We will 
continue to enhance our education and awareness 
efforts to help reduce this number.

Malick Diara, Amanda Brown, Johnnie Richard and Cathy 
Simmons from ExxonMobil’s medicine and occupational health 
group host an information session about Zika prevention.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

14

Safety, health and the workplace2016 workforce by geographic region3

Thousands of employees

Africa/Middle East

3.6

Canada

6.7

United States

29.1

Total workforce

71.1

Asia Pacific

13.3

Latin America

3.5

Europe

14.9

Our global reach directly contributes to the diversity of our workforce and the 
success of our business. In 2016, our total workforce was approximately 71,100, 
slightly lower than the total workforce in 2015. The largest concentration of 
ExxonMobil employees is in the United States with 29,100, followed by Europe 
and Asia Pacific with 14,900 and 13,300, respectively. 

3Data exclude company-operated retail store employees.

2016 female representation in 
ExxonMobil worldwide workforce

2016 minority representation in 
ExxonMobil U.S. workforce

40%

of our worldwide management and professional 
new hires over the past decade were women 

30%

of our management and professional new hires in the 
United States over the past decade were minorities 

32%

of our management and 
professional population are women

35%

of our worldwide engineering 
hires are women

30%

of our management and professional 
population in the United States are minorities

36%

of our engineering hires in the 
United States are minorities

Up Close:
Improving road safety in Nigeria 

According to the World Health Organization, the total number of 
road traffic deaths in Nigeria is more than 35,000 per year. The 
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mobil Producing Nigeria 
and the Federal Road Safety Corps implemented the second phase 
of an ExxonMobil-supported road safety awareness campaign in 
2016 that aims to foster safe driving practices and enhance overall 
safety among road users in Nigeria. This behavioral campaign utilizes 
a two-pronged approach that includes messaging on billboards as 
well as skills training for public transportation drivers and company 
logistics teams. The Federal Road Safety Corps cites a 20 percent 
reduction in road accidents due to the program’s sustained efforts 
since 2014. We have implemented similar programs in other areas 
of our operations and continue to seek new opportunities to 
improve road safety.

Cali Hatch, a process apprentice, monitors equipment at 
ExxonMobil’s Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana.

In 2016, Mobil Producing Nigeria participated in a 
behavioral awareness road safety campaign.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

15

Safety, health and the workplaceExxonMobil and Synthetic Genomics, Inc. are partnering to develop breakthroughs in algae biofuels, a critical step toward sustainable biofuel production.

2 Managing climate 

change risks

Climate change risk 
management strategy

Society continues to face the dual challenge of meeting the 
world’s growing energy demand, while simultaneously 
addressing the risks of climate change. ExxonMobil believes 
the risks of climate change warrant thoughtful action.

We are committed to providing affordable energy to support 
human progress while advancing effective solutions to address 
climate change. Our climate change risk management strategy 
includes four components: developing technology solutions, 
mitigating emissions in our operations, providing solutions 
that reduce greenhouse gas emissions for our customers and 
engaging on climate change policy.

l o g y

o

Providin
for c

g

 s

u

s

t

o

o

l

u

m

t

i

e

o

r

s

n

s

n

eloping te c h
solutio n s

v
e
D

M

i

t

i

i

g

n

a

o

t
i

u

n

r

o

g e

p

missions

erations

a

E n g

e
at

g in g on clim
a n g e policy

h

c

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

16

Managing climate change risks 
 
Developing technology 
solutions

As society pursues energy solutions that will lower greenhouse 
gas emissions, technological advancements will be instrumental in 
providing the global economy with the energy it needs. Recognizing 
the challenges associated with most existing low greenhouse 
gas emissions energy technologies, particularly in delivering 
the necessary economy, scale and reliability, we are conducting 
fundamental research aimed at developing energy solutions that 
have the potential to be economically feasible without subsidies, 
standards or mandates. ExxonMobil is pioneering scientific 
research to discover innovative approaches to enhance 
existing — and develop next-generation — energy sources. 

ExxonMobil’s Emerging Technologies program brings together 
executives, scientists and engineers from across our businesses 
to identify and evaluate technology research opportunities 
with a long-term strategic focus. Our Emerging Technologies 
team seeks to understand a wide range of technology 
options and how they may shape the global energy system. 
Understanding the fundamental science serves as a basis 
for our broader research efforts and may lead to further 
technology development aimed at practical application. This 
awareness informs our internal analysis of the global energy 
landscape as reflected in our annual Outlook for Energy.

The Outlook for Energy: 
A View to 2040

At the center of our research is ExxonMobil’s Corporate 
Strategic Research laboratory, a fundamental research 
institution with approximately 150 Ph.D. scientists and 
engineers focused on addressing the company’s long-range 
science needs. Our in-house research portfolio includes a 
broad array of programs, including biofuels, carbon capture 
and storage, alternative energy and climate science. 

In addition to in-house research, we partner with leading 
universities around the world — such as the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Princeton University, the University of 

“I believe, and my company believes, that 
climate risks warrant action and it’s going to 
take all of us — business, governments and 
consumers — to make meaningful progress.” 

Darren Woods
Chairman and CEO

Texas and Stanford University — to broaden awareness of energy 
developments and support technology breakthroughs to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and improve energy efficiency.

Advanced biofuels

ExxonMobil funds a broad portfolio of biofuels research 
programs, including ongoing efforts to develop algae-based 
biofuels. These include programs for converting non-food 
based feedstocks — such as whole cellulosic biomass, 
algae-based feedstocks and cellulose-derived sugars — into 
advanced transportation fuels. We believe that additional 
fundamental technology improvements and scientific 
breakthroughs are still necessary in both biomass optimization 
and the processing of biomass into fuels. Specifically, further 
progress is needed to ensure that advanced biofuels can work 
on a commercial scale and be produced with lower life-cycle 
greenhouse gas emissions. 

Our advanced biofuels research includes joint research 
collaborations with Synthetic Genomics Inc., Renewable 
Energy Group, the Colorado School of Mines, Michigan State 
University and the University of Wisconsin. For more information 
about our technology partnerships in 2016, see the Up Close 
on page 18.

Energy investment in advanced biofuels

ExxonMobil’s approach to developing future energy technology

Expand access
to energy 

Mitigate
emissions

Promote science 
for sound policy

Improve
efficiency

Increase
supply

• Hydrocarbon 
  and renewable 
  energy systems

• Emerging power
  generation 
   technologies

• Methane emissions 
  reduction

• Advanced carbon 
  capture and 
  sequestration

• Climate science,
  economics and 
   policy

• Resilience and 
  preparedness

• Internal combustion
  engine efficiency

• Natural gas to
  products

• Light-weighting
  and packaging
  reduction

• Advanced biofuels, 
  including algae

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

17

Managing climate change risksCarbon capture and storage

Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is the process by which 
carbon dioxide (CO2) gas that would otherwise be released 
into the atmosphere is captured, compressed and injected 
into underground geologic formations for permanent storage. 
With a working interest in approximately one-quarter of the 
world’s total CCS capacity, ExxonMobil is a leader in one of the 
most important next-generation, low-carbon technologies. In 
2016, we captured 6.3 million metric tons of CO2 for storage.

We believe the greatest opportunity for future large-scale 
deployment of CCS will be in the natural gas-fired power 
generation sector. While CCS technology can be applied to 
coal-fired power generation, the cost to capture CO2 is about 
twice that of natural gas-fired power generation. In addition, 
because coal-fired power generation creates about twice as 
much CO2 per unit of electricity generated, the geological 
storage space required to sequester the CO2 produced from 
coal-fired generation is about twice that associated with 
gas-fired generation.

ExxonMobil is conducting proprietary, fundamental research to 
develop breakthrough carbon capture technologies that have 
the potential to be commercially feasible without government 
subsidies, standards or mandates.

FuelCell Energy plant in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

Up Close:
Next-generation technology partnerships

ExxonMobil continues to invest in research and 
development of next-generation technologies. Achieving 
large-scale changes in the energy sector will require 
long-term investments in research to develop 
cost-effective solutions that are capable of broad 
commercial application. We conduct cutting-edge research 
and development in-house and in collaboration with 
other industries. We also partner with approximately 80 
universities around the world to explore next-generation 
energy technologies. Spending approximately $1 billion 
per year on research and technology development over 
the past decade, ExxonMobil is maintaining a leading 
role in technological innovation in the energy industry. 
Below are examples of our technology partnerships 
announced in 2016.

FuelCell Energy

ExxonMobil and FuelCell Energy, Inc., are pursuing a 
novel technology in power plant carbon dioxide capture 
through a new application of carbonate fuel cells. A fuel cell 
is a device that converts chemical energy into electricity.

Advancing economic and sustainable technologies to 
capture carbon dioxide from large emitters such as 
power plants is an important part of ExxonMobil’s suite 
of research into lower-emission solutions to mitigate 
the risks of climate change. ExxonMobil researchers 

conducted two years of comprehensive laboratory tests that 
demonstrated that the unique integration of two existing 
technologies — carbonate fuel cells and natural gas-fired 
power generation — allows the capture of carbon dioxide 
more efficiently than conventional technology. Through 
these tests, our scientists saw the potential for this exciting 
technology for use at natural gas-fired power plants to 
enhance the viability of carbon capture and storage while at 
the same time generating additional electricity. Following 
several years of experiments with FuelCell Energy, we 
advanced our research via a joint development agreement in 
2016. This agreement allows scientists from both companies 
to work collaboratively to further develop this potentially 
game-changing technology.

University of Texas

ExxonMobil partnered with the University of Texas at Austin 
in 2016 to explore and progress innovative solutions to the 
world’s energy challenges. As part of this effort, we are 
investing $15 million in research initiatives over five years to 
build upon decades of research at the University of Texas and 
further develop existing and next-generation energy sources 
that have the potential to reduce emissions.

The university’s renowned Energy Institute will help drive 
much of the research conducted through this partnership. 
Research projects are expected to cover a range of emerging 

“The fuel cell carbon capture solution 
we are advancing with ExxonMobil 
could be a game-changer in affordably 
reducing carbon dioxide emissions 
from coal- and gas-fired power plants 
globally. The carbonate fuel cell 
solution uses a proven global platform 
to generate power while capturing 
carbon dioxide.” 

Chip Bottone
President and chief executive officer of 
FuelCell Energy, Inc.

“The University of Texas at Austin is proud 
and deeply appreciative of its long history 
of collaboration in education and research 
with ExxonMobil. This investment further 
unites two of the world’s leading energy 
organizations to pursue innovations for a 
better energy future.” 

Gregory L. Fenves
President of the University of Texas

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

18

Managing climate change riskstechnologies and will take advantage of the university’s 
capabilities in renewable energy, battery technologies and 
power grid modeling.

Georgia Institute of Technology 

Research teams from ExxonMobil and the Georgia Institute 
of Technology have successfully developed a new method of 
reverse osmosis that filters hydrocarbons through synthetic 
carbon membranes at the molecular level. This is a critical step 
in the production of certain plastics that currently requires 
energy-intensive separation processes.

Because the new method works at low temperatures, it may 
one day replace existing separation technology, dramatically 
reducing the amount of energy required in plastics processing.

If brought to industrial scale, this breakthrough could reduce 
industry’s global annual carbon dioxide emissions by up to 
45 million metric tons, which is equivalent to the annual 
energy-related carbon dioxide emissions of about 5 million 
U.S. homes. It could also reduce energy costs used to make 
plastics by up to $2 billion a year globally.

Chemical plants account for about 8 percent of global energy 
demand and about 15 percent of the projected growth in 

Emissions reduction

Plastic possibilities

demand to 2040. As populations and living standards continue 
to rise around the world, the demand for auto parts, housing 
materials, medical devices, electronics and other products 
made from plastics and other petrochemicals will continue to 
grow. Improving industrial efficiency is part of ExxonMobil’s 
mission to meet the world’s growing need for energy while 
limiting environmental impacts.

Through this research, we will address the challenge of how 
to ferment real-world renewable cellulosic sugars that contain 
impurities capable of inhibiting fermentation. The research will 
explore the technical feasibility and potential environmental 
benefits of biodiesel produced from fermented sugars. Positive 
results could lead to expanded efforts to explore scalability 
of the technology.

Renewable Energy Group

ExxonMobil is a global leader in advanced biofuels research.  
In 2016, we extended this leadership by partnering with 
Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), to study the production 
of biodiesel by fermenting renewable cellulosic sugars from 
sources such as agricultural waste. This work is part of our 
many investments in new technologies with the potential 
to increase energy supplies, reduce emissions and improve 
operational efficiencies.

REG has developed a patented technology that uses microbes 
to convert sugars to diesel in a one-step fermentation process 
similar to ethanol manufacturing. The ExxonMobil and REG 
research will focus on using sugars from non-food sources to 
produce biofuels.

“We look forward to this collaboration with 
ExxonMobil to advance our proprietary 
cellulosic sugar fermentation technology. 
This technology can enable us to capitalize 
on the combined power of cellulosic sugars 
and microbial fermentation to revolutionize 
the production of ultra-low carbon, 
cleaner-burning advanced biofuels.” 

Eric Bowen
Vice president and head of REG Life Sciences

What if you could meet the growing demand for certain plastics while reducing energy consumption and cutting carbon emissions? A potentially game-changing process may do just that. It’s called 
organic solvent reverse osmosis (OSRO). This breakthrough enables a building block of plastics (paraxylene) to be separated at the molecular level by using very little heat. If we used OSRO to help 
make certain plastics, it could:

Cut annual energy costs by

$2 BILLION

Reduce industry’s annual carbon emissions by

Meet demand for plastics

45 MILLION METRIC TONS

RESPONSIBLY

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

19

Managing climate change risksMitigating emissions 
in our operations

As we seek to increase production of oil and natural gas to 
meet growing global energy demand, we are committed to 
mitigating greenhouse gas emissions within our operations.

ExxonMobil has a robust set of processes to improve efficiency, 
mitigate emissions and contribute to effective long-term 
solutions to manage climate change risks. These processes 
include, where appropriate, setting tailored objectives at the 
business, site and equipment levels, and then stewarding 
progress toward meeting those objectives. Based on decades 
of experience, ExxonMobil believes this rigorous bottom-up 
approach is a more effective and meaningful way to drive 
efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction than simply setting high-level corporate targets. 

We also believe that continuing to use this approach will yield 
further improvements in all sectors of our business.

such as our Gorgon Jansz liquefied natural gas project in 
Western Australia. 

In the near term, we are working to increase energy efficiency 
while reducing flaring, venting and fugitive emissions in our 
operations. In the medium term, we are deploying proven 
technologies such as cogeneration and carbon capture and 
storage where technically and economically feasible. Longer 
term, we are conducting and supporting research to develop 
breakthrough technologies. Since 2000, ExxonMobil has 
spent approximately $8 billion to develop lower-emission 
energy solutions.

In 2016, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were 
125 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2015 
performance, our 2016 emissions increased by approximately 
3 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. This increase was 
primarily driven by new facilities in our Upstream operations, 

2016 CDP response

Energy efficiency

In 2016, energy used in our operations totaled 1.5 billion 
gigajoules. Energy utilized in our operations generates more 
than 80 percent of our direct greenhouse gas emissions and is 
one of our largest operating costs. As such, we have focused 
on energy efficiency for many decades. Since 2000, we have 
used our Global Energy Management System in the Downstream 
and Chemical businesses, and our Production Operations 
Energy Management System in our Upstream businesses to 
identify and act on energy savings opportunities. Through our 
commitment to energy efficiency, application of structured 
processes and continued use of a bottom-up approach, we 
continue to yield industry-leading results. 

Greenhouse gas emissions (net)1

Greenhouse gas emissions (normalized)

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions                                                 
Metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90 100 110 120 130

135

126

123

126

128

126

127

123

122

125

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

Greenhouse gas emissions avoided from
ExxonMobil actions2
Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons

2.3

4.7

6.8

9.5

11.3

13.2

15.6

17.4

18.2 19.0

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

In 2016, ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions were 125 million 
CO2-equivalent metric tons. Relative to our 2015 performance, our 2016 
emissions increased by approximately 3 million CO2-equivalent metric tons.
1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in API’s Compendium of  
  Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas 
  Industry and IPIECA’s Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse   
  Gas Emissions. We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for    
  our business operations, demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility
  or operation in which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, with the share
  reflecting the equity fractional interest. 

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Our normalized greenhouse gas emissions from our Upstream, Downstream and 
Chemical operations totaled 24.5 metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput 
or production in 2016. Over the past decade, increases in Upstream emissions 
have been largely offset by improvements in our Downstream and Chemical 
operations. We are committed to reducing our normalized greenhouse gas emissions
through structured processes and the continued use of a bottom-up approach. 

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Energy efficiency and cogeneration

Flare/vent reduction

In 2016, greenhouse gas emissions avoided from ExxonMobil actions were
19.0 million metric tons, cumulative since 2007. This represents an additional 
avoidance of 0.8 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions compared
with our 2015 performance.

2Cumulative since 2006.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

20

Managing climate change risksFor example, in the 2010, 2012 and 2014 Refining Industry 
Surveys, ExxonMobil’s global refining operations achieved first 
quartile energy efficiency performance.* 

Cogeneration

Cogeneration technology captures waste heat generated from 
the production of electricity for use in production, refining and 
chemical processing operations. Due to its inherent energy 
efficiency, the use of cogeneration leads to reduced greenhouse 
gas emissions. Our cogeneration facilities enable the avoidance 
of approximately 6 million metric tons per year of greenhouse 
gas emissions.

We have interests in approximately 5,300 megawatts of 
cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations around 
the world. This capacity is equivalent to the annual energy 
needed to power 2.5 million U.S. homes. Over the past 
decade, we have added more than 1,000 megawatts of 
cogeneration capacity and continue to develop additional 
investment opportunities.

*  The Solomon Survey provides a global benchmarking assessment of the refining 
industry and is conducted every two years. Results from the 2016 surveys are 
expected in mid-2017.

Emissions reduction

Flaring

Flaring is the process of burning natural gas as an alternative 
to releasing the gases directly into the atmosphere. Flaring is 
done for safety reasons or because barriers to the development 
of gas markets and gas infrastructure prevent natural gas from 
being used.

ExxonMobil is a charter member of the Global Gas Flaring 
Reduction Partnership, an initiative of the World Bank that 
seeks to reduce flaring by increasing the use of natural gas 
associated with oil production, by helping remove technical 
and regulatory barriers to flaring reduction, conducting research, 
disseminating best practices and developing regulatory 
country-specific gas flaring reduction programs. In addition, 
we put in place our own Upstream Flaring and Venting 
Reduction Environmental Standard for Projects in 2005. 
Our goal is to avoid routine flaring in new Upstream projects 
and to reduce “legacy” flaring in our existing operations.

In 2016, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, 
Downstream and Chemical operations totaled 5.0 million 
metric tons. This represents a decrease of 0.3 million metric 
tons compared with our 2015 performance. The decrease in 
flaring in 2016 was largely due to changes at our Usan field in 
Nigeria, where — since assuming operatorship in 2014 — we 
have implemented a program to eliminate routine flaring.

Hydrocarbon flaring

Millions of metric tons

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

8.0

5.7

4.4

3.6

4.1

3.6

3.7

4.5

5.3

5.0

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

In 2016, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, Downstream and Chemical 
operations totaled 5.0 million metric tons. This represents a decrease of 0.3 million
metric tons compared with our 2015 performance.

>$4 BILLION

invested since 2000 at our Upstream 
facilities around the world on emission 
reduction efforts, including energy 
efficiency and flare mitigation

>$2 BILLION

invested since 2000 at our refining and 
chemical facilities around the world to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions

>$2 BILLION

in support of Upstream and Downstream 
cogeneration facilities since 2001 to more 
efficiently produce electricity and reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

21

Our Antwerp refinery in Belgium. ExxonMobil continues to take 
action to improve our energy efficiency and reduce emissions.

Managing climate change risksNatural gas

One of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions is through the use of natural gas 
in power generation. Natural gas is a flexible, abundant and 
low-emissions fuel that is available across the globe. On a 
life-cycle basis, from extraction through electricity consumption, 
using natural gas yields up to 60 percent fewer greenhouse 
gas emissions than coal. Natural gas is also the ideal partner 
for intermittent renewable energy sources, such as solar or 
wind, as it can provide reliable power when these renewable 
sources are not available. We predict natural gas will be one 
of the most important energy sources to drive reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions.

ExxonMobil is one of the largest natural gas producers in the 
world. Coupled with our leadership in the development of 
liquefied natural gas, we are well-positioned to meet growing 
demand for this cleaner-burning energy source. 

Chemical materials

Materials developed by ExxonMobil provide manufacturers 
with quantifiable benefits in many consumer applications, 
including resilient, lightweight plastics that are used by 
automotive manufacturers to reduce vehicle weight and 
deliver greater efficiency for drivers. We have also developed 
advanced tire technologies that help maintain optimal tire 
pressure, improve rolling resistance and aid fuel efficiency, 
as around 25 percent of vehicle tires in the United States are 
underinflated. By addressing this issue, drivers could collectively 
save up to 1 billion gallons of gasoline per year. 

Additionally, our next-generation plastic packaging reduces 
total product weight and allows more products per shipment, 
fewer trucks on the road, less gasoline and energy used, fewer 
greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately less material to be 
reused, recovered or recycled. ExxonMobil plastic products 
also contribute to safety within the food industry. Plastic 
packaging is lightweight, durable and flexible, which makes 
it ideal for preserving food. According to the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, one-third of 
the food produced in the world goes to waste each year. Plastic 
packaging can help reduce spoilage, increase access to food 
and improve food safety for consumers around the world.

XTO Energy natural gas operations in Alberta, Canada.

Venting and fugitive emissions

Venting is the process of releasing methane and other gases 
into the atmosphere. Fugitive emissions occur when gases or 
vapors escape from pressurized equipment.

We recognize the importance of reducing these emissions 
and continue implementing cost-effective methods to reduce 
methane and other hydrocarbon emissions in our operations. 
This includes structured leak detection and repair programs in 
which we use optical gas imaging cameras to identify leaks for 
prompt repair. Additionally, we continue to replace high-bleed 
pneumatic devices with lower-emission technology and conduct 
reduced emissions completions in our ongoing efforts to 
enhance the environmental performance of our operations.

Our methane emissions in 2016 totaled 7 million CO2-equivalent 
metric tons, which is similar to our performance over the last 
several years. Most of our venting and fugitive emissions are 
methane, which represent approximately 6 percent of our 
direct greenhouse gas emissions.

Providing solutions 
for customers

Over the next few decades, population and income growth — 
and an unprecedented expansion of the global middle 
class — are expected to create new demands for energy 
and hydrocarbon-based products. Meeting these demands 
will not just require more energy, but will also require energy 
to be used more efficiently across all sectors.

ExxonMobil is delivering solutions that enable our customers 
to reduce their emissions and improve their energy 
efficiency, including:

•  Expanding the supply of cleaner-burning natural gas to 

reduce emissions in power generation;

•   Creating highly efficient plastics and other chemical materials 

that can be applied in a range of consumer products; and

• Developing premium, high-efficiency fuels and lubricants.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

22

Managing climate change risksClimate change is a global issue that requires the collaboration 
of governments, companies, consumers and other stakeholders 
to create worldwide solutions. We engage with stakeholders 
directly and through trade associations around the world 
to encourage sound policy solutions for addressing climate 
change risks.

addressing the risks of climate change. We offer data and policy 
analysis on proposals and engage in constructive debate. For 
example, we have had hundreds of meetings with policymakers 
around the world to share our views on carbon pricing policy. 
For additional information on ExxonMobil’s approach to 
political advocacy and contributions, see page 45.

Effective climate change policies 

We believe that free markets, innovation and technology are 
essential in addressing the risks of climate change. Success in 
developing and deploying technologies will be highly dependent 
on governments creating a policy environment that enables 
innovation and competition. Policies should be clear and guard 
against duplicative, overlapping and conflicting regulations, 
which may distort markets and impose unnecessary costs on 
consumers. We believe that effective policies are those that:

•  Promote global participation;

• Let market prices drive the selection of solutions;

•  Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of greenhouse gas 

emissions across the economy;

• Minimize complexity and administrative costs;

• Maximize transparency; and

•  Provide flexibility for future adjustments to react to 
developments in climate science and the economic 
impacts of climate change policies.

Given the wide range of societal priorities and limited global 
resources, all policies should be as economically efficient as 
possible. ExxonMobil believes that market-based systems that 
place a uniform, predictable cost on greenhouse gas emissions 
are more effective policy options than mandates or standards. 
Market-based policies more effectively drive consumer behavior 
and technology innovation, while mandates and standards limit 
consumer choice and can perpetuate ineffective technologies.

We recently joined the Climate Leadership Council as a 
founding member. The council advocates for a revenue-neutral 
carbon tax and aligns closely with our longstanding principles. 

Stakeholder engagement

ExxonMobil employees Barb Whittaker and Joan Axelrod 
work to develop Synergy fuels at our laboratory in 
Paulsboro, New Jersey. 

Fuels and lubricants

ExxonMobil produces fuels and lubricants that deliver higher 
vehicle efficiency and lower emissions. In addition, we continue 
working on research and development of new fuels and 
lubricants. Our family of high-performance lubricants includes 
synthetic lubricants that have sustainable customer benefits, 
such as longer drain intervals than conventional mineral oils. 
Synthetic lubricants can be replaced with less frequency, 
therefore reducing the volume of used oil for disposal or 
recycle. In addition, extending lubrication service intervals 
increases efficiency and lowers maintenance costs while 
reducing potential risks from worker and machine interactions. 
There are also specific application advantages for these 
products, including in wind turbine applications where 
machinery is several hundreds of feet in the air. Mobil lubricants 
are used in more than 40,000 wind turbines worldwide.

Engaging on climate 
change policy

ExxonMobil believes the long-term objective of effective policy 
should be to reduce the risks of climate change at minimum 
societal cost, in balance with other priorities such as poverty 
eradication, education, health, security and affordable energy. 

We engage a variety of stakeholders on climate change issues — 
including policymakers, investors, consumers, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs), academics and the public to actively 
advocate for responsible policies that would be effective in 

Our chairman and members of our management committee 
have primary responsibility for managing climate change risks 
for ExxonMobil and our operations. The board of directors 
receives annual in-depth briefings that cover updates on 
public policy, scientific and technical research, and company 
positions and actions related to climate change. To drive 
improvement, our merit-driven employee development and 
compensation systems integrate performance in environmental 
areas, including emissions and energy efficiency.

As issues related to climate change arise at the local, state, 
national and regional levels, our global team of experts evaluates 
and develops a company position consistent with our principles. 
ExxonMobil employees also hold key leadership positions, 
including board of director positions, with many trade 
associations that engage on climate change issues, including 
the American Petroleum Institute (API), the International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and IPIECA, the 
global oil and gas industry association for environmental and 
social issues.

We believe an effective policy response to climate change 
requires a thorough understanding of the climate system. 
Our scientists have been involved in climate change research 
and related policy analysis for more than 30 years, resulting in 
hundreds of publicly available documents on climate-related 
topics, including more than 50 peer-reviewed publications. 

Peer-reviewed articles on climate research 

ExxonMobil experts have participated in the United Nations 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since its 
inception. Most recently, our scientists contributed to the IPCC 
Fifth Assessment Report in lead author, review editor and 
reviewer roles. Our scientists also participated in the work of 
the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, including its work to 
review the third U.S. National Climate Assessment Report and 
to provide advice to the U.S. Global Change Research Program.

IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

23

Managing climate change risksIndustry engagement

ExxonMobil understands that stakeholders seek a better 
understanding of the positions of the oil and gas industry, as 
well as how individual companies approach the management 
of climate change risks within their own businesses. 

As an active IPIECA member, ExxonMobil engaged with member 
companies in advance of the 2015 Conference of Parties (COP) 
21 meeting in Paris to develop a common industry position on 
global efforts to address climate change risks. That work 
culminated in The Paris Puzzle — a publication on the challenges 
and responses the industry believes are needed to mitigate 
the risks of climate change. In advance of the 2016 COP 22 
meeting in Marrakech, ExxonMobil further engaged with IPIECA 
members to explore solutions for transitioning to an energy 
system with lower greenhouse gas emissions. This work resulted 
in Exploring low-emissions pathways: Advancing the Paris 
Puzzle, which was published in November 2016.

Exploring low-emissions pathways: 
Advancing the Paris Puzzle

In 2015, we also took a key role collaborating with IPIECA 
and its member companies to create a voluntary reporting 
framework for oil and gas companies to publish their climate 
change risk management approach in a simple, straightforward 
and transparent manner. The resulting framework — which is 
currently being piloted by several IPIECA members, including 
ExxonMobil — covers a wide range of climate-related issues 
and provides a consistent reporting methodology for the 
oil and gas industry. This framework enables interested 
stakeholders to understand an individual company’s views 
on the issues central to addressing climate change risks.

IPIECA Climate Change Reporting Framework

Up Close:

Outlook for Energy and business planning

Each year, we update our long-term energy demand 
projection in our Outlook for Energy, taking into account 
the most up-to-date demographic, economic, technological 
and climate policy information available. This analysis serves 
as a foundation for our long-term business strategies 
and investments, and is consistent with other credible 
forecasts such as the International Energy Agency’s (IEA) 
New Policies Scenario. 

Our Outlook reflects increasingly stringent climate policies 
and is consistent with the aggregation of pledges that 
were submitted by signatories to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
2015 Paris Agreement. Our Outlook seeks to identify 
potential impacts of climate-related policies — which often 
target specific sectors — by using various assumptions 
and tools, including application of a proxy cost of carbon 
to estimate potential impacts on consumer demands. 
Key insights from The Outlook include:

•   From 2015 to 2040, global demand for energy is 

expected to increase by about 25 percent and will 
require all forms of energy;

•   Oil will remain the world’s primary fuel through 2040 
due to transportation and petrochemical demand;

•    Natural gas will grow more than any other energy 

source, overtaking coal as the world’s second-largest 
energy source, due to power generation and 
industrial use;

• 

 Wind, solar and biofuels will average combined growth 
of about 5 percent per year — by 2040 these resources 
will comprise about 4 percent of global energy demand;

•   Conventional cars will remain most popular due to cost, 
functionality and increasing fuel efficiency through 
technology improvements. Decreasing battery costs 
are likely to enable small, shorter-range electric cars 
to account for approximately 10 percent of new car 
sales by 2040; and

•   Energy-related CO2 emissions will peak in the 2030s, 

then gradually decline.

To enhance the robustness of our Outlook, we assess a wide 
range of assumptions for key supply-and-demand drivers to test 
the range of potential energy mix outcomes. Many third-party 
scenarios that represent a 2-degree Celsius pathway, including 
IEA’s 450 Scenario, show natural gas demand continuing to 
grow and oil continuing to play a prominent role in meeting the 
world’s energy demand through 2040. Even under the 450 and 
the New Policies scenarios, substantial upstream oil and gas 
investment of $11 trillion to $18 trillion will be needed through 
2040 to meet global demand. While ExxonMobil currently 
contributes less than 3 percent of global production, we are 
well-positioned to support additional development required 
to meet demand as a result of our diverse resource base, 
superior project execution capabilities and industry-leading 
long-term returns on capital employed.

We evaluate potential investments and projects using a wide 
range of economic conditions and commodity prices; we also 
financially stress test our investment opportunities, which 
provides an added margin against uncertainties and further 
enables us to consider various market environments and 
investment drivers in our planning and investment process. 
All business segments are required to include, where 
appropriate, an estimate of the costs associated with 
greenhouse gas emissions in their economics when seeking 
funding for capital investment.

The Outlook for Energy

Energy and carbon — managing the risks

Global liquids supply
Millions of oil-equivalent barrels per day (MOEBD) 

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

Natural decline
in absence of
further investment

IEA New Policies
Scenario
30 MOEBD

IEA 450
Scenario
57 MOEBD

Existing supplies

Existing supplies

2015

2040

2040
Additional supplies needed

Source: Based on International Energy Agency sources, excluding biofuels.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

24

Managing climate change risksThe Stena Carron drill ship located offshore Georgetown, Guyana. 

3 Environmental 

performance

Environmental 
management approach

We conduct our business in a manner that is responsive to 
the environmental and economic needs of the communities 
in which we operate. ExxonMobil considers risks at every 
stage of development, and we continuously work to mitigate 
those risks and improve our environmental performance. 
We employ an environmental management strategy to monitor 
our performance in five key areas, as depicted on the right, 
which are discussed throughout this chapter. To describe our 
holistic approach to environmental management, we have 
ordered the topics discussed in this chapter to reflect the 
typical life cycle of our operations.

Our approach requires our facilities to be designed, 
operated and managed with the goal of mitigating 
adverse environmental impacts.

n d
v
r

e

i c e s

Biodiversit y   a
cosyste m  s

e

D
e
c
o
m
m

a
n
d

r

e

h

a

i

s

b

s

i
l
i

t

i

o

n

W

manag

ate
r

e

m

e

n

t

e
c
n
a
m
r
o
f
r
e

Spill p

a

t
i

i
n

o

n

g

Air emiss i o n s

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

25

Environmental performance 
Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is 
a management framework that helps put our Corporate 
Environment Policy into action and establishes common 
worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent in our 
business, including environmental risks. 

Our approach is grounded in a scientific understanding of the 
environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment 
to develop, maintain and operate projects and decommission 
assets using appropriate standards.

For additional information on how ExxonMobil manages 
environmental performance, see the following resources:

Environmental management

Standards of Business Conduct

Environmental Aspects Guide 

Biodiversity and 
ecosystem services

Biodiversity refers to the number and variety of living organisms 
in a given area. Ecosystem services are the food, water, shelter, 
clean air and cultural identity that people obtain from the 
environment. Safeguarding the ability of the environment 
to support biodiversity and provide ecosystem services is 
a priority for ExxonMobil. 

Our approach to managing biodiversity and ecosystem services 
recognizes several factors, including the rarity of individual 
species, their roles in different ecosystems and habitats, 
their vulnerabilities and their cultural significance. To protect 
particular species and sensitive habitats, we take steps such 
as modifying engineering design, construction and operating 
practices, and enhancing wildlife habitats at our properties. 

ExxonMobil closely examines the environmental context of the 
areas where we operate to identify biodiversity and ecosystem 
services risks and appropriate protective measures. We also 
periodically screen the locations of our major operating 
facilities against databases of the International Union for 
Conservation of Nature and World Protected Areas. In 2016, 
an estimated 25 percent of our major operating facilities were 
within 5 kilometers of designated environmentally sensitive 
areas. By tracking these data, we are able to ensure prioritized 
areas receive special protection. 

Up Close:
Environmental management across an asset life cycle

We believe a comprehensive approach to environmental 
management includes a thorough assessment of potential 
environmental impacts. Based on these assessments, we then 
implement plans to avoid or reduce impacts across an asset’s 
life cycle.

planners at Kearl aim to achieve a maintenance-free, 
self-sustaining landscape, which takes into account 
traditional knowledge, wildlife habitat and biodiversity. 
To date, more than 250 acres of land have been permanently 
reclaimed at Kearl. 

This approach is exemplified by environmental management 
activities at Imperial Oil’s Kearl operations in Alberta, Canada, 
where reducing the environmental footprint is incorporated 
throughout the asset life cycle. For example, the site takes  
advantage of electricity generated by energy-efficient  
cogeneration systems, an alternative dust treatment process 
to reduce water usage and wastewater treatment flocculation 
technology for accelerated tailings consolidation. 

Imperial Oil’s holistic environmental management strategy also 
includes progressive reclamation. As operational areas at Kearl 
are no longer needed, they are prioritized for reclamation to 
prevent erosion in the short term and to allow the land to return 
to its natural boreal forest state much earlier. Reclamation 

Muskeg Lake, which is connected to and adjacent to Kearl 
Lake, was designed to provide spawning, rearing, feeding and 
overwintering habitat for native fish species. Construction 
of Muskeg Lake commenced in 2008 and was completed 
in 2010. Lake filling was completed in 2013. This is the 
first of three lakes that will be constructed to replace the 
fish habitat disrupted as operations in the area progress. 
In 2016, Imperial Oil completed four years of fish and fish 
habitat monitoring at Muskeg Lake. Monitoring activities 
included sampling of fish populations to assess natural 
colonization and habitat productivity of the lake. Key findings 
indicate the population sizes and number of fish species 
has steadily increased from five species in 2014 to eight 
species in 2016.

A northern pike found at Muskeg Lake near Imperial Oil’s Kearl operations in Canada. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

26

Environmental performanceGlobal freshwater consumption1

Millions of cubic meters

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

320

350

340
330

370

330

280

270

300
290

ExxonMobil's global freshwater consumption in 2016 was 290 million cubic 
meters. This represents a 10 million cubic meter decrease when compared to our 
2015 global freshwater consumption. Since 2012, we have actively maintained 
our freshwater consumption below our 2011 performance.

1We report freshwater intensity alongside consumption data in our performance
 data (pages 46-48). Freshwater intensity is the ratio of net freshwater consumption
 to the amount of throughput or production. Normalized in this way, we can
 better understand how efficiently we are using freshwater in our operations.
 Data collection began in 2007. Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 2011.
 ExxonMobil’s total freshwater consumption includes use by refineries and
 chemical plants, oil and gas production, and onshore shale resources development
 in the United States, principally onshore shale resources development.

water tool, we identified that almost 35 percent of our major 
operating sites are located in areas with the potential for 
water scarcity. We pursue opportunities to reduce our water 
use and develop site-specific management strategies such as 
the deployment of water conservation technologies, the use 
of alternative freshwater sources, recycling of municipal and 
industrial wastewater, substitution with lower-quality water 
sources and harvesting of rainwater. 

Water management is an important aspect of hydraulic 
fracturing operations. Water use by basin differs due to 
geologic and reservoir characteristics and optimization 
of drilling and completion designs. For example, a Williston 
Basin well in North Dakota requires 6 million gallons for 
hydraulic fracturing, whereas a Permian Basin well in western 
Texas requires 15 million gallons of water. For information on 
how this water use compares to other forms of energy, see 
the infographic on our water management webpage.

Water management 

A frog discovered near Moro during a biodiversity 
survey in Papua New Guinea, currently in the process 
of being named.

A plant found growing on trees high above the ground. 
This species is known to be found only in the Hides Ridge 
region of Papua New Guinea.

In addition to our commitment to protecting biodiversity in our 
operating areas, we support advocacy, research and partnerships 
to protect biodiversity outside our fence lines. In 2016, we 
contributed approximately $4 million to organizations, such as 
those focused on biodiversity protection and land conservation.

Our Papua New Guinea biodiversity offset program, which 
provides a strategic roadmap for the sustainable use and 
management of the country’s biological resources, exemplifies 
our approach to managing biodiversity. For more information 
on the Papua New Guinea biodiversity offset program, see 
our biodiversity and ecosystem services webpage.

Biodiversity and ecosystem services

Water management

In 2016, the net freshwater consumption at our operations was 
290 million cubic meters, a decrease of more than 3 percent 
from the 2015 consumption of 300 million cubic meters and 
a more than 9 percent decline since 2007. ExxonMobil works 
to manage our water use and to limit adverse impacts to 
water resources and consumers from our withdrawals and 
discharges, taking into consideration factors such as quality 
and availability. 

For example, when the Banyu Urip, Indonesia, operations 
required increased injection water volumes to maintain 
adequate reservoir pressure, we developed a large reservoir 
to capture and store excess water available in the wet season 
that would have otherwise not been used. Using the reservoir 
helped mitigate potential effects of our water usage on the 
local population during the drier months when water resources 
are scarcer.

Using the latest version of the global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues (IPIECA) global 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

27

Environmental performanceSeismicity 

In some instances, due to unique geological conditions, oil and 
gas operations may trigger seismic activity. Such operations 
may include underground wastewater disposal injection, 
reservoir depletion and, in rare situations, hydraulic fracturing. 
We support risk management and mitigation approaches 
to seismicity that take into consideration the relative risks 
associated with the specific context and geography of the 
proposed operation. Mitigation methods include assessing 
factors such as fluid volume, formation character, tectonic 
setting, operating experience and local construction standards. 
At XTO Energy, a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, we follow a 
disciplined injection well siting protocol prior to siting a 
disposal well using available data — including federal, state or 
internal seismic information — to conduct a risk assessment.

ExxonMobil and Stanford University jointly developed a freely 
available software modeling tool assessing the potential risk 
of induced seismicity from industry saltwater disposal wells. 
Using data such as underground stress levels and reservoir 
parameters, the tool evaluates the potential for fault slip near 
disposal well locations. The tool is being used by regulatory 
agencies and energy companies to reduce the risk of induced 
earthquakes. For information on ExxonMobil’s recent seismicity 
research initiatives, visit our water management webpage. 

Water management 

Spill performance

We take a rigorous approach to assessing and managing the 
potential impacts of a spill on water or land with a particular 
emphasis on risk management, operations integrity and 
containment capabilities. We are proud to report that, as a 
result of these efforts, we had fewer spills in 2016 compared 
with 2015. Over the past 10 years, ExxonMobil has reduced 
the global number of spills greater than 1 barrel by more than 
13 percent.*

We are continuously working to improve our ability to ensure 
a rapid and comprehensive response if a spill does occur. The 
total volume of hydrocarbons spilled on soil and water was 
4,700 barrels in 2016, with more than 50 percent recovered 
at the spill sites. The majority of these spills did not affect 
third parties or the communities that surround our assets. 
For additional information on ExxonMobil’s emergency 
response capabilities, please see page 13. 

* This statistic is presented as an absolute number across ExxonMobil’s 
global operations.

Because a significant portion of our Upstream operations are 
located offshore, we have developed specialized capabilities 
and tactics to improve offshore oil spill response and risk 
management. ExxonMobil has the industry’s only dedicated, 
in-house oil spill response research program, which includes a 
focus on cold water and remote locations, such as the Arctic. 

In 2016, we successfully stewarded completion of a field test 
of a full-scale prototype technology that uses nuclear magnetic 
resonance in the Earth’s field to remotely detect oil that might 
be trapped in ice. The technology is designed to detect the 
presence of oil to allow responders to monitor and more 
effectively respond to oil under ice.

For information on ExxonMobil’s joint industry partnerships 
to enhance industry offshore spill response capability, visit the 
following resources:

Spill performance 

Arctic oil spill response technology

Air emissions

In accordance with regulatory requirements and our commitment 
to maintaining operational excellence, we work to reduce air 
emissions associated with our operations and the products we 
deliver. ExxonMobil’s combined emissions of volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) have decreased by almost 40 percent over the past 
10 years across all of our businesses. In 2016, our combined 
emissions totaled less than 0.4 million metric tons. For 
additional information on ExxonMobil’s air emissions, please 
see the performance data table on page 46.

Decommissioning

Throughout the life cycle of a producing oil field or other asset, 
we work to limit disruptions to local communities and protect the 
environment. Effectively decommissioning onshore and offshore 
assets is essential to reducing our overall environmental impact. 
We ensure that decommissioning activities are planned and 
conducted to appropriately manage risks and, where possible, 
create beneficial land use opportunities. 

Recognizing the unique challenges associated with offshore 
assets, ExxonMobil created an offshore decommissioning center 

of expertise in 2015 that is responsible for planning and 
managing the safe decommissioning of our offshore assets. 

Rehabilitation

An important element of ExxonMobil’s decommissioning strategy 
is rehabilitation. This is the process of safely repurposing 
assets that are no longer productive resources. Whenever 
possible, we look for opportunities to repurpose former 
ExxonMobil sites for environmental and societal benefits. 
We support science-based, cost-effective approaches to 
remediation that take into consideration the interests of 
various stakeholders. 

We are committed to the sustainable stewardship of surplus 
properties. ExxonMobil Environmental Services (EMES) — our 
global organization that provides guidance and supports the 
remediation and stewardship of surplus sites — has managed 
more than $6.6 billion of remediation work and returned more 
than 2,300 property parcels to beneficial end uses since 2008. 
In 2016, EMES monitored 5,600 active sites in more than 
30 countries. 

In 2016, EMES received the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) Region 4 Excellence in Site Reuse Award 
for our efforts to remediate and redevelop former Virginia 
Chemical Company (VCC) fertilizer manufacturing sites. VCC 
sites produced phosphate fertilizer from the late 1800s to the 
1960s. While ExxonMobil never owned or operated the VCC 
sites, we became responsible as a corporate successor. In 
2000, ExxonMobil and EPA Region 4 formed a collaborative  
agreement known as the VCC Initiative to address the 
contamination at the properties where these facilities once 
operated. Since then, ExxonMobil has cleaned up 27 of the 
30 former VCC sites, and worked with property owners and 
local communities to ensure the land can be redeveloped.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

28

Environmental performanceExperimental fieldwork for engineered wetland research in Qatar to help improve water quality.

Up Close:
Advancing the use of engineered wetlands to treat 
industrial wastewater

Over the past five years, ExxonMobil Research Qatar (EMRQ) has conducted extensive research to understand the 
feasibility of utilizing engineered wetlands to treat industrial wastewater for beneficial reuse in arid environments. 
Water quality characterization, influent and effluent water management and system maintenance are just a few of the 
important factors that need to be considered when designing such a system. In 2016, EMRQ commissioned a microbiology 
laboratory to study the functions and structure of microbial communities in wetlands to optimize wetland water treatment 
systems. EMRQ then completed a design for an experimental wetland to study the treatment of gas field-produced 
water to better understand the feasibility of using such systems for large-scale applications. For information on 
how ExxonMobil works to manage water quality from our operations, see our water management webpage. 

Water management

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

29

Environmental performanceLocal fishermen in East Java, Indonesia. In 2016, ExxonMobil Cepu Limited helped build a jetty and fish monitoring station to support the local fishing community. 

4

Community 
engagement, 
human rights 
and strategic 
investments

Managing community 
engagement 

Understanding and addressing the interests of communities 
where we operate is critical to maintaining a sustainable 
business. ExxonMobil’s multifaceted approach to engaging 
with communities helps us create and sustain productive 
relationships with the communities near our areas of operation. 
We work in communities all over the world, each with their 
own unique cultures, needs and sensitivities. In all cases, we 
maintain our corporate-wide commitment to responsibly 
managing our social and environmental impacts, upholding 
respect for human rights and making social investments by 
tailoring our engagement efforts to individual communities. 
In this chapter, we focus on three key socioeconomic elements: 
human rights, community relations and strategic investments. 

Strategic
investments

Human
rights

Community 
relations

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

30

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsUp Close:
Social outreach to support 
local fishermen in Indonesia 
and Malaysia

ExxonMobil’s offshore platforms and related facilities in 
Indonesia and Malaysia are located near areas frequently 
visited by local fishermen. Social outreach efforts in both 
countries reduce the potential risks of fishing near oil and 
gas operations.

For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil Exploration and Production 
Malaysia Inc. joined the Malaysian Maritime Enforcement 
Agency to engage local members of a village in Terengganu, 
Malaysia, where fishermen represent around 40 percent of 
the population. The initiative, known as Sahabat Maritim or 
Maritime Mate, consisted of a two-day outreach program 
designed to increase safety awareness and strengthen 
relationships with members of the local community. 

Community engagement activities included a “gotong-royong” — 
or voluntary community clean-up — to refurbish the local jetty 
where fishermen can dock or moor their boats. ExxonMobil 
volunteers also distributed educational brochures that illustrate 
the 500-meter restricted zone around platforms, conducted 
a series of talks and exhibitions on safely fishing near offshore 
operations and provided attendees with life jackets. In response 
to Sahabat Maritim and other such education initiatives, the 
number of fishing vessel encroachments at our platforms in 
the region has been reduced by almost 60 percent in the last 
three years.

“This Sahabat Maritim program achieves our 
Operations Integrity Management System 
objective of building community awareness 
among our key stakeholders and managing 
risk to ensure operations integrity.” 

Sukiman Mohamed
Public and government affairs manager, 
ExxonMobil Malaysia

Sahabat Maritim participants engaging with Malaysia Maritime 
Enforcement Agency officials about community safety.  

Respecting human rights

Our approach to human rights is consistent with the goals of 
the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. These principles outline governments’ duty to 
protect human rights and businesses’ responsibility to respect 
them. ExxonMobil works closely with governments, civil 
society and industry to help advance the goals of the UN 
Guiding Principles.

ExxonMobil operates in regions where engagement with host 
governments is undertaken to support security and respect for 
human rights in local operations. The Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights are a set of principles designed to 
guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their 
operations within an operating framework that encourages 
respect for human rights. Participants include representatives 
from governments, civil society and the extractives industry. 
We have been a member of the Voluntary Principles since 
2002, and have served on multiple occasions as one of the 
corporate representatives on its steering committee. 

In 2016, we supported the Voluntary Principles through the 
facilitation of pilot groups in Nigeria, Ghana and Myanmar, 
which were designed to enhance local collaboration on human 
rights among governments, nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs), companies and other stakeholders. ExxonMobil is 
actively participating in the Nigeria pilot group.

Our Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights 
states our commitment to conduct business in a way that 
protects the security of our personnel, facilities and operations. 
It also affirms our commitment to respect human rights. The 
Framework provides guidance to all of our employees on 
working with both host governments and private security 
personnel in a manner that respects human rights. We also have 
agreements with private security firms with which we work 
that contain requirements to uphold human rights. These 
agreements include expectations for training and compliance 
with relevant local, UN and other security-related frameworks. 

We expect our employees, officers and directors to comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations and seek to work with 
suppliers and business partners who share our commitment to 

human rights. Within our own workforce, our commitment to 
human rights is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct 
and our Statement on Labor and the Workplace. Our Statement 
reinforces support for the principles of the International Labor 
Organization 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work, notably the elimination of child labor, 
forced labor and workplace discrimination.

ExxonMobil has conducted human rights training for our 
employees in select regions for many years. We believe 
providing human rights training helps build an understanding 
and awareness of potential impacts. In 2015, we launched a 
new computer-based human rights training module to further 
enhance internal awareness of human rights. To date, more than 
1,200 of our key employees in 46 countries have completed 
the training.

Statement on Labor and the Workplace

Standards of Business Conduct

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

31

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights, and we 
expect the same of our suppliers. In 2016, we published our 
ExxonMobil Supplier Expectations, a set of guidelines that 
outlines our expectations of contractors and suppliers inclusive 
of human rights. These Expectations include references to key 
international human rights frameworks such as the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
and the International Labor Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Starting in 2017, 
the Supplier Expectations will become part of ExxonMobil’s 
annual letter to our suppliers. 

Internally, we delivered human rights awareness training 
tailored to procurement professionals in the supply chain. 
Through early 2017, we have trained approximately 100 
ExxonMobil procurement professionals, and will continue 
training through the rest of 2017.

ExxonMobil works closely with IPIECA, the global oil and gas 
industry association for environmental and social issues, to 
monitor human rights trends in supply chains that are relevant 
to the oil and gas industry. We also work with IPIECA to 
collect information on best practices in human rights supply 
chain management from the oil and gas industry as well as 
other industries. For additional information on ExxonMobil’s 
approach to supply chain management, see page 39.

Community relations 

We actively engage with stakeholders in local communities 
and include their feedback in our decision-making processes 
to identify any issues or concerns early on in a project. We 
provide local groups and individuals with communication 
channels — including open houses, community meetings 
and individual meetings — to voice concerns so interested 
stakeholders and community members have the opportunity 
to be heard. We invite interested stakeholders and community 
members so they are fairly represented in our public 
consultation activities.

We are informed by guidance from the International Finance 
Corporation and IPIECA, which provides for systematic and 
transparent grievance management processes to address 
concerns related to projects.

Our community-tailored grievance management processes 
are clearly communicated through our ongoing community 
engagement, and allow us to track, analyze and respond to 
community grievances in a timely and effective manner. In 
2016, we received and responded to 31 grievances concerning 
our liquefied natural gas project in Papua New Guinea, which 
has been operating for two years. At our Sakhalin-1 facilities, 
where we have been operating for more than 10 years, we 
received and responded to five grievances in 2016. By working 
collaboratively and transparently with local communities, we can 
help avoid or reduce our impacts on communities, enhance 
benefits, avert delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation 
of issues. 

Indigenous peoples

Our operations sometimes take place in areas inhabited or 
historically used by indigenous peoples. In these locations, we 
start by identifying indigenous populations and then engage 
with them in open and inclusive consultation, including the 
consideration of their traditions and cultures. In 2016, our 
Sakhalin-1 project in Russia received a national corporate 
citizenship award at an annual meeting of indigenous peoples 
for our efforts to develop a tripartite agreement with local 
government officials and indigenous peoples to restore the 
local reindeer population.

ExxonMobil employs practices and policies to respect property 
rights in the locations where we operate, and we pay particular 
attention to those areas populated by indigenous peoples. 
ExxonMobil was not involved in the resettlement of any 
individuals from indigenous populations in 2016. For more 
details on working with indigenous communities as well as 
information on ExxonMobil’s approach to managing land use, 
resettlement and cultural heritage, please see our community 
relations webpage. 

Community relations

Up Close:
Supporting indigenous 
communities in Alaska

With ExxonMobil’s support, the University of Alaska at 
Fairbanks is creating the Northern Alaska Indigenous 
Leadership Academy (NAILA), which will help Alaska 
Natives develop the skills to implement sustainable 
community development initiatives and fulfill leadership 
roles in their communities. This new program includes 
a one-week on-campus training course designed to 
strengthen wellness, leadership and community 
sustainability among indigenous peoples living in the 
Interior and North Slope of Alaska, where our Point 
Thomson facilities are located. ExxonMobil’s contribution 
will provide scholarships covering travel, tuition and 
fees for 25 NAILA program participants.

“Without the generosity of 
ExxonMobil, NAILA wouldn’t be 
possible. Their gift underscores our 
shared commitment to developing 
a new generation of Alaska Native 
leaders and building sustainable 
rural communities.”

Evon Peter
Vice chancellor of rural, community and 
native education for the University of 
Alaska, Fairbanks

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

32

The University of Alaska at Fairbanks campus. 

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsStrategic community 
investments

In addition to addressing community priorities where we do 
business, we partner with governments and nongovernmental 
organizations to help enhance the quality of life in the 
communities where we operate around the world. Whether 
through the ExxonMobil Foundation, our corporation or our 
international affiliated company operations, we strategically 
invest in social programs that consider community needs and 

host country economic and social goals. In 2016, we contributed 
$242 million to communities around the world.

We focus our efforts on our signature initiatives: improving 
education, combating malaria and advancing economic 
opportunities for women. We concentrate on these three 
areas because research shows they help build a foundation 
for economic prosperity and human progress. 

Education initiative

Education is a fundamental building block for individual 
opportunity and economic growth. Science, technology, 

engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills, in particular, are 
critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared for the jobs of 
the 21st century. Additionally, we hire highly skilled scientists 
and engineers to perform a variety of jobs in our company. For 
these reasons, we invest in education and teacher development 
programs designed to encourage students to pursue careers 
in the STEM fields. Since 2000, we have contributed nearly 
$1.2 billion to education programs around the world, with 
$72 million invested in 2016 alone.

Up Close:
Helping prepare students for careers of the 
21st century

Founded in 2007, the National Math and Science Initiative (NMSI) is a U.S.-based nonprofit organization 
that works to expand access to challenging coursework, improve student achievement and boost 
teacher effectiveness, particularly in the fields of STEM. 

NMSI’s College Readiness Program enables schools to improve participation in rigorous Advanced 
Placement® (AP®) coursework to better prepare students for college and the STEM-intensive careers of 
the 21st century. To date, the program has been implemented in more than 1,000 schools across 34 
states. After one year, schools participating in NMSI’s College Readiness Program have increased the 
number of qualifying AP® exam scores in math, science and English by 10 times the national average, 
while demonstrating significant gains among female, African-American and Hispanic students, who 
are traditionally underrepresented in STEM fields. 

In 2015, with financial assistance from ExxonMobil, NMSI began expanding its College Readiness 
Program in Louisiana, North Dakota and Pennsylvania. ExxonMobil’s partnership with NMSI will help 
provide schools in these states with extensive training for teachers and resources for students to support 
AP® coursework. In Pennsylvania alone, seven new schools joined the program for the 2015 to 2016 
school year. After one year, these schools experienced a combined 51 percent increase in qualifying 
math, science and English AP® exam scores.

Education initiative: program spotlight
National Math and Science Initiative

114%

States implementing NMSI

20%

“The College Readiness Program is raising the academic bar in Pennsylvania and 
across the nation. We’re grateful that companies like ExxonMobil realize the value 
of STEM education and are committed to ensuring that our future workforce is 
better equipped with the knowledge and skills they need to be successful.”

Gregg Fleisher
President of the National Math and Science Initiative

1,000+

schools in 34 states

$185M

committed by 
ExxonMobil since 2007

U.S. 
average

NMSI 
average

Math, Science, English

three-year increase in qualifying 
AP® scores for NMSI schools

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

33

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsUp Close:
ExxonMobil’s long-standing commitment to antimalarial efforts

Each year, malaria claims the lives of more than 400,000 people 
around the world. Thankfully, significant progress has been 
made in the global fight against this disease, and the number 
of malaria-related deaths and infections continues to decline. 
To continue this progress, an integrated approach is needed, 
including strengthened health care systems, improved prevention 
techniques, expanded research capabilities and increased 
access to proper diagnosis and treatment.

Since 2000, we have supported research and development into 
new front-line therapies, the search for a vaccine and improved 
diagnostics. We support leading product development 
partnerships like Medicines for Malaria Venture in its program 
designed to advance new drugs in the fight against P. vivax 
malaria, the strain most commonly found in Asia. Because there 
is still no approved vaccine for malaria in wide usage, we 
have also worked with the Malaria Vaccine Initiative at PATH 
since 2005 to support informed policy decision-making as the 
development of malaria vaccines is accelerated.

As a result of these and other such global efforts, the World 
Health Organization’s annual World Malaria Report found that 
malaria mortality rates decreased by 29 percent around the 
world between 2010 and 2015. Additionally, steady declines 
in mortality and incidence rates have averted about 1.3 billion 
malaria cases and saved about 6.8 million lives since 2001.

However, the significant progress in reducing malaria deaths 
since 2000 could be reversed by a number of looming 
challenges. One of the most alarming is the threat of resistance 
to front-line antimalarial drugs emerging in Southeast Asia 
and its potential spread into Africa. Accordingly, we support 
Dr. Dyann Wirth’s laboratory at Harvard University to investigate 
new compounds that could overcome this drug resistance — as 
well as the Worldwide Antimalarial Resistance Network — which 
provides comprehensive, timely, quality-assured evidence to track 
the emergence and spread of antimalarial drug resistance.

“We’re at a very special time in malaria 
research. If we continue to inspire health 
leaders, reduce knowledge gaps and 
translate findings into practice, we can 
end malaria in our lifetime.”

Dr. Dyann Wirth
Director of the Harvard Malaria Initiative

The World Health Organization’s World Malaria Report

Malaria initiative

Women’s economic opportunity initiative

We support the health of our employees, their families and 
members of the communities where we operate, which is why 
we invest in health programs aimed at combating preventable 
and treatable illnesses. In 2016, ExxonMobil contributed nearly 
$10 million to support a variety of malaria research, educational 
and treatment programs. Since 2001, the antimalarial programs 
we have funded have reached more than 125 million people, 
and our support has resulted in the distribution of approximately 
14.3 million bed nets, 4.3 million doses of antimalarial treatments 
and nearly 3 million rapid diagnostic kits, as well as the training of 
more than 589,000 health workers. Our cash grants during the 
past 15 years total $155 million, making us one of the largest 
private-sector grant-makers in the fight against malaria.

Empowering women economically is a key element to enhancing 
local and national development. Investing in women helps 
support broad economic transformation in developing regions 
and contributes to a more equitable society. In the developing 
countries where women are more fully participatory in their 
national economies, we find lower infant mortality, improved 
health and nutrition, increased educational opportunities, 
enhanced economic growth and food security, and lower 
rates of poverty. 

Since 2005, ExxonMobil has invested — through our women’s 
economic opportunity initiative — approximately $104 million 
in programs that support research to identify the most effective 

Several tools, such as raising awareness, using long-lasting, 
insecticide-treated bed nets, indoor residual spraying, and rapid 
diagnostics and treatments, have been key in reducing the 
number of malaria cases and deaths. 

Photo credit: Ben Moldenhauer, Medicines for Malaria Venture

ways to improve women’s economic status; develop women 
farmers, entrepreneurs and business leaders; and improve 
women’s access to technology. Our support has reached tens 
of thousands of women in more than 90 countries. In 2016 
alone, our contributions totaled $10 million.

ExxonMobil Foundation

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

34

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsUp Close:
Expanding economic 
opportunities for women 
farmers in Mozambique

In Mozambique, women face pervasive obstacles to 
achieving economic empowerment. To help overcome  
those barriers, in 2016, the ExxonMobil Foundation 
partnered with Opportunity International to launch the 
Projecto para Empoderamento das Mulheres e 
Desenvolvimento da Agricultura (PEMA) program 
to expand economic opportunities for women farmers 
in Mozambique. 

The initiative includes both theoretical and practical 
application of strategies for helping women more 
effectively benefit from commercial agricultural markets 
in Mozambique. Since the program launched in January 
2016, PEMA has provided support to more than 400 
farmers and gained valuable insight into the delivery 
of agricultural inputs, services and finance to women 
farmers. In 2017, we aim to significantly increase the 
number of program participants through innovations in 
agricultural finance, comprehensive agricultural support 
services and technology to improve the productivity, 
income, financial inclusion and overall empowerment of 
women farmers in Mozambique.

Women in Mozambique participate in the PEMA program 
to learn about commercial agriculture.

2016 community investments by focus area1 and geographic region2

Arts and culture

$3

Civic and
community

$84

Employee and
retiree giving

$38

Women

$10

Public policy 
research 

$7

Precollege 
education

$24

Worldwide total

$242
Million

Other
education

Health

$4
$18

Environment

$4

United appeals and 
workplace giving

$6

Higher 
education

$44

$131M

United States

$58M

Europe/Caspian

$30M

Africa/Middle East

$13M

Asia Pacific

$8M

Canada

$2M

Latin America

ExxonMobil seeks to make meaningful community investments in a variety of 
focus areas. In 2016, total community investments were $242 million, with the 
greatest investment in civic and community initiatives.

ExxonMobil’s community investments span across the many geographic regions 
in which we operate. In 2016, we invested a total of $242 million in communities 
around the world.

1 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions 
and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee and retiree 
giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving 
programs. Investments do not include environmental capital and operating 
expenditures, which totaled approximately $4.9 billion in 2016.

2 Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our 
divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee 
and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and 
employee giving programs.

Local community investments

In addition to our education, malaria and women’s economic 
initiatives, we provide local investments tailored to address 
community-specific needs such as access to skills training 
and health care and support for disaster relief, including our 
$500,000 contribution to the American Red Cross and the 
Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank to support local flooding 
disaster relief in 2016. For additional information on our local 
community investments, see page 39. 

Employee participation

Volunteering and charitable giving are important values for 
ExxonMobil. In total, more than 19,000 ExxonMobil employees, 
retirees and their families donated more than 550,000 volunteer 

hours to nearly 4,500 charitable organizations in 29 countries 
in 2016. 

Our educational matching gift program matches employee 
and retiree donations to U.S. higher education institutions at 
a ratio of 3-to-1. In 2015, nearly 4,600 employees and retirees 
donated more than $13 million to 864 colleges and universities, 
as well as minority scholarship programs — which, in 2016, the 
ExxonMobil Foundation matched with more than $32 million. 
For information on how ExxonMobil’s volunteer involvement 
program helps facilitate employee participation, visit our 
employee participation webpage.

Employee participation

ExxonMobil 2016 Worldwide Giving Report

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

35

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investmentsCase Study 
ExxonMobil’s Growing the Gulf 
investment program

Over the past decade, technology pioneered by the energy industry has unlocked vast oil and natural gas 
resources that were previously difficult to produce. In particular, the production of natural gas in U.S. 
shale basins, including those found in Gulf Coast states such as Texas, has grown significantly in recent 
years. These opportunities have spurred local and regional economic activities in the United States. 

In addition to helping grow the economy, increased natural gas production also generates environmental 
benefits. Natural gas is the least carbon-intensive of the major energy sources, emitting up to 60 percent 
fewer carbon dioxide emissions than coal when used for electricity generation.

We operate three refineries located along the U.S. Gulf Coast in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Baytown, 
Texas; and Beaumont, Texas. These and other facilities will support ExxonMobil’s expanded refining, 
chemical, lubricant and liquefied natural gas operations. Our Gulf Coast refineries have the combined 
capacity to process nearly 1.5 million barrels of crude oil per day to produce a range of products, 
including gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, lubricating oils, adhesives and resilient, lightweight plastics used in 
a variety of applications.

ExxonMobil plans to invest more than $20 billion over 10 years, beginning in 2013, in our refining, 
chemical and joint venture businesses along the Gulf Coast as part of our Growing the Gulf investment 
program. ExxonMobil’s U.S. Gulf expansion includes 11 major chemical, refining, lubricants and liquefied 
natural gas projects along the Texas and Louisiana coasts. This includes the expansion of existing facilities 
and construction of new facilities that will increase our refining and chemical capacity.

These projects are expected to create more than 45,000 jobs in the region. Many of these are highly 
skilled, high-paying jobs averaging about $100,000 per year.  

We are partnering with local, state and national leaders to positively contribute to the Gulf Coast 
communities. The company also partners with colleges in the Baytown, Beaumont and Baton Rouge 
areas to train students for high-skilled jobs in the Gulf Coast manufacturing sector. 

ExxonMobil also works to maintain strong relationships with Gulf Coast communities through strategic 
investments and employee-driven initiatives. In Baton Rouge alone, employees, retirees and family 
members annually volunteer more than 40,000 hours with community organizations, earning more 
than $760,000 in ExxonMobil Volunteer Involvement Program grants for local agencies and groups. 
ExxonMobil also annually donates nearly $1 million to nonprofits and schools and about $1.5 million 
to colleges and universities in Louisiana. 

As we help drive economic progress and support local communities in the Gulf Coast, we remain 
committed to operating safely, protecting the environment, maintaining the highest levels of operational 
integrity and remaining a good corporate citizen.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

ExxonMobil field engineer Teni Sulaiman at the Mont Belvieu plastics plant in Texas.

36

Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria employees Kanu Okechukwu and Michael Gideon discuss safety plans offshore Nigeria. 

5 Local development 

and supply chain 
management

Managing our 
economic impact 

ExxonMobil’s local content and supply chain management 
strategies are designed to deliver lasting and shared value 
to host countries and local communities — as well as our 
business —  by employing systematic processes and global best 
practices that support local economic growth and development. 

Local economic growth 
and development 

We work to contribute to the economic and social development 
of the countries in which we operate. We believe local content — 
the added economic and social value brought to a host nation 
through the activities of the oil and gas industry — provides 
shared value to ExxonMobil and to local communities.

Local economic 
growth and 
development

Supply chain 
management

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

37

Local development and supply chain managementOur local content approach focuses on three key areas: 
employing and training a local workforce, supporting local 
suppliers and improving livelihoods of community members 
through local community investments. The goal of this 
multi-tiered approach is to provide sustainable economic 
benefits and ensure local participation is embedded into 
our daily processes. 

To integrate local content into overall project planning and 
execution, we develop a plan specific to each country or 
area, taking into account social and economic conditions, the 
nature of the project and the community’s needs. Part of this 
effort includes working to align our goals with those of our 
partners and host country governments. We also actively 
participate in external organizations and initiatives that improve 
local content around the world. These organizations include 
IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for 
environmental and social issues, and the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development.

Up Close:
Local supplier development 
in Indonesia

ExxonMobil is committed to providing local vendors 
with tools and training opportunities to compete in a 
global supply chain. For example, in 2016, ExxonMobil 
conducted three capacity-building training programs 
for local vendors in Bojonegoro Regency in East Java, 
Indonesia. We shared detailed information about invoice 
procedures and the electronic bidding process to assist 
local contractors by clarifying ExxonMobil requirements 
and procedures. A total of 185 local contractors attended 
the training programs. As a result, local vendor capacity 
to meet internal bidding requirements has improved. 
In 2016, we provided contracts valued at approximately 
$6 million to local vendors in Indonesia. For additional 
information on ExxonMobil’s approach to training and 
developing local suppliers, see the local supplier 
development section of our local economic growth 
and development webpage. 

Local economic growth and development 

Local hiring and training 

Local supplier development

Hiring and training a local workforce in our areas of operation 
is a long-standing priority for ExxonMobil. We provide locally 
hired individuals with opportunities to develop technical and 
leadership skills that will benefit them throughout their careers, 
both with ExxonMobil and with future employers. By doing so, 
we aim to enhance the long-term capability of local workforces 
in areas where we operate. Our training programs include the 
provision of information on ethical business conduct, health 
and safety, management skills and fundamentals of the oil and 
gas industry, as well as relevant technical and vocational skills. 
As illustrated below, in 2016, we continued to make progress in 
hiring and training host country nationals. For more information, 
visit the local hiring and training section of our local economic 
growth and development webpage. 

Local economic growth and development 

2016 local hiring statistics

We understand the importance of building and maintaining 
a qualified and globally competitive supply chain in host 
countries. ExxonMobil works with a range of stakeholders, 
including host country governments, nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) and local communities to support the 
development of local vendors. To be a supplier for ExxonMobil, 
a local vendor must agree to meet our robust safety, technical, 
environmental and human rights expectations and requirements. 
When appropriate, ExxonMobil works with entrepreneurs and 
local businesses to help them understand our requirements 
and become competitive vendors capable of contributing to 
our project and the sustainable economic progress of their 
local community. 

95%

90%

96%

88%

90% 87%

Indonesia

Personnel locally hired

Personnel locally hired in supervisory or managerial positions 

Nigeria

76%

Chad

82%

30%

58%

Equatorial
Guinea

Angola

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

38

Local development and supply chain managementLocal community investments

Promoting supplier diversity 

ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers1  

Our local community investments are designed to support 
social and economic development in the host countries where 
we operate. As we invest in communities, we pursue programs 
that are aligned with community and business priorities. 

In addition to supporting local supplier development, in 
2016, ExxonMobil established a microcredit union that helps 
entrepreneurs in Bojonegoro Regency in East Java, Indonesia, 
access capital to expand their existing businesses. The 
microcredit union, which has more than 400 members, also 
offers management assistance and training to members.

As part of this effort to invest in the community, ExxonMobil 
is also specifically supporting women entrepreneurs because 
of the unique challenges to economic development they face. 
ExxonMobil supports a microfinance program in Indonesia that 
provides technologies and training on key topics that accelerate 
women’s economic advancement. Women in the program were 
provided with sustainable lighting and cooking technologies 
to assist in their daily lives, as well as the opportunity to become 
resellers of the technology in their communities. In 2016, 
ExxonMobil held several group training sessions for more than 
500 women, covering topics such as microfinance, sales and 
marketing, and basic accounting. For additional information on 
ExxonMobil’s strategic community investments, see page 33.

Supply chain management

The success of our business is influenced by the many valued 
suppliers who support our operations. In 2016, ExxonMobil 
made payments to more than 90,000 suppliers of goods and 
services worldwide. We strive to promote a healthy supply 
chain that respects human rights and the environment while 
creating opportunities for historically underrepresented groups.

As part of our supply chain management efforts, we have 
taken steps to foster a commitment to sustainability with our 
key suppliers. In 2016, we included a sustainability discussion in 
our supplier relationship management meetings with strategic 
suppliers representing more than $850 million in annual 
spending across nine commodity groups. These discussions — 
which cover human rights, environmental performance, local 
content and supplier diversity topics — opened the door 
to potential future collaborations to improve our mutual 
sustainability performance with these suppliers. For information 
on how ExxonMobil respects human rights in the supply chain, 
please see page 32.

ExxonMobil seeks to build long-lasting and mutually beneficial 
relationships with diverse suppliers to contribute to the 
economic development of historically underrepresented 
groups. In the United States, we have cultivated diversity 
across our supply chain for more than 40 years. 

In 2011, our spending with minority- and women-owned 
business enterprises (MWBEs) reached $1 billion in the 
United States. We have been able to maintain that level of 
spending with diverse suppliers for the past five years. In 2016, 
we exceeded our target with a total of $1.4 billion in spending 
with diverse suppliers in the United States. This represents 
the highest annual spending with diverse suppliers in our 
program’s history. These suppliers included minority-owned 
businesses; women-owned businesses; small businesses; 
lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; 
veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled veteran-owned 
businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. 
Suppliers from these groups have contributed to our total 
diverse spending in order to ensure a more inclusive supply 
chain. To help identify diverse suppliers, our supplier diversity 
database allows businesses from traditionally underrepresented 
groups in the United States to register an interest in being an 
ExxonMobil supplier.

Supplier diversity database 

We consider the full reach of our supply chain, not just our 
direct spending, by tracking the progress of our primary 
suppliers in the use of diverse suppliers in their businesses. 
We refer to this as our Tier 2 program. This approach helps 
promote the sustainability of our supplier diversity program 
by encouraging our primary suppliers to join in our efforts. 

Beyond spending with diverse suppliers, we aim to provide 
long-term growth and development opportunities to diverse 
suppliers through coaching, training and workshops. In 2016, 
we continued to increase ExxonMobil leadership engagement 
in our supplier diversity program. Sara Ortwein, president of XTO 
Energy, hosted a “CEO Academy,” an executive development 
session at the ExxonMobil Houston Campus in partnership 
with the Houston Minority Supplier Development Council. At 
the session, Ms. Ortwein shared leadership thoughts and the 
company’s philosophy.

We work closely with the National Minority Supplier Development 
Council (NMSDC) and the Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC) to help identify and develop relationships 

Millions of dollars

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

$582
$615

$887

$841

$1,068

$1,001
$1,024

$1,108

$1,064

$1,442

In 2011, our spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises 
reached $1 billion in the United States. We have maintained that level of spending 
with diverse suppliers for the past five years. In 2016, we spent a total of
$1.4 billion with diverse suppliers in the United States, an increase of more than 
30 percent from 2015.

1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending).
 Total spending includes suppliers classified as minority-owned businesses; 
 women-owned businesses; small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and 
 transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned businesses; service-disabled 
 veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by people with disabilities. 

“Many businesses, while achieving 
success, can struggle with transitioning 
from operational to strategic leadership. 
Overcoming this challenge is critical for 
sustainable growth. I was glad to share 
my insights from my own leadership 
experience in order to help diverse 
business leaders in the Houston area 
grow and develop themselves as leaders, 
as well as expand their businesses. 
Developing a stronger, more diverse 
supply base not only helps the community, 
but also ExxonMobil’s business.” 

Sara Ortwein
President of XTO Energy

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

39

Local development and supply chain management 
 
 
with certified diverse suppliers in the United States. ExxonMobil 
is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier diversity 
efforts. WBENC named ExxonMobil among America’s Top 
Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises in 2016 for 
the 10th year in a row. For the first time, we received a Platinum 
Distinction, which is reserved for companies with leading 
supplier diversity programs in the top quartile. This national 
award recognizes corporations with world-class programs 
and leadership in supplier diversity that are setting higher 
standards and driving innovation in support of women’s 
business enterprises.

National Minority Supplier 
Development Council

Women’s Business Enterprise 
National Council

Our supplier diversity program continues to expand into the 
international arena. In 2016, we spent a total of $203 million 
with women-owned and indigenous-owned businesses 
outside the United States. Of this, we spent $170 million with 
indigenous-owned businesses in Canada. Outside of Canada, we 
spent $33 million with women-owned businesses, representing 
a 57 percent increase from 2015. We continue to work with 
WEConnect International to increase the participation of 
women-owned businesses in our supply chain around the 
world. Women’s economic development is a global priority for 
ExxonMobil, and our international supplier diversity program 
currently focuses on women in a number of countries where 
we operate. For additional information on our efforts to 
increase women’s economic development, see page 34.

WEConnect International

Participants at a recent WEConnect women’s supplier conference in Lagos, Nigeria, sponsored by ExxonMobil. 

Up Close:
Improving environmental performance across the supply chain

We encourage our suppliers to take action to improve 
environmental performance, as outlined in ExxonMobil’s 
Supplier Expectations. We work in collaboration with key 
suppliers, where possible, to identify opportunities for 
continuous improvement in environmental performance 
that improve efficiencies and create shared value for our 
business and our suppliers. For example, we have worked 
with several suppliers in the U.S. Gulf Coast to reduce 
waste and improve waste handling at our facilities in 
Beaumont, Texas, and Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

By collaborating with Waste Management National Services, 
Inc., and its affiliates, to apply its comprehensive waste 
profiling and analysis methods across ExxonMobil’s plants, 
we enhanced our waste disposal practices and achieved 
significant cost savings at our Baton Rouge and Beaumont 
locations. Our partnership with Waste Management has 
resulted in more than $2 million in cost savings due to 
increased recycling, improved waste classification and 

container optimization. In addition, Waste Management 
personnel have worked more than 100,000 person-hours 
without incident at the ExxonMobil refineries and achieved 
world-class safety standards.

Through our partnership with a valued supplier to the 
ExxonMobil Chemical Company, we were also able to 
reduce waste by reusing and recycling large polypropylene 
bags capable of holding 500 to 2,000 pounds of product at 
our Baton Rouge refinery. Rather than being disposed of in 
landfills, used bags are now collected, cleaned and repaired 
by a third party before being sold back to the supplier at a 
lower cost. Not only does this initiative result in an 80 to 90 
percent reduction in the number of bags sent to landfill, 
but it also results in cost savings for our supplier and our 
own business. We value suppliers who can help us improve 
our own environmental performance, and we are now 
looking to expand these waste initiatives to other locations. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

40

Local development and supply chain managementUp Close:
ExxonMobil receives 
award for corporate 
social responsibility

In 2016, Esso Exploration and Production Nigeria 
Limited (EEPNL), an ExxonMobil affiliate in Nigeria, 
was awarded the Best Company in Corporate Social 
Responsibility in West Africa and recognized as one of 
the Most Socially Responsible Companies by Social 
Enterprise Report and Awards (SERAs). SERAs is 
an annual project that raises awareness about the 
roles organizations play in the social development 
of Nigeria and Africa. 

These awards recognize several local community 
investment projects in Nigeria, including a 
back-to-school program that has provided school 
supplies to more than 32,500 students across the 
country. Additionally, our investments supported 
the building of science libraries to promote the 
development of future STEM professionals at 22 
primary schools; e-learning centers at 12 schools 
to teach children computer skills; 32 solar-powered 
water pumps to provide access to clean, potable 
water; and general capacity-building workshops for 
local entrepreneurs. Overall, we have invested more 
than $1.3 million into the local community through 
these projects.

Up Close:
Partnering to celebrate 
America Recycles Day

ExxonMobil works to promote women-owned 
businesses and, where possible, include them in 
our supply chain. For example, CompuCycle, a 
women-owned company, began working with 
ExxonMobil in the area of electronic waste removal 
and recycling in 2015. CompuCycle was the first 
company in the Houston area to achieve R2 
Certification, the recycling industry’s leading 
certification for electronic waste handling. This 
certification ensures that the electronic waste 
removed from ExxonMobil sites is handled in a 
safe, environmentally responsible and fully 
transparent manner. 

In November 2016, ExxonMobil and the Houston 
campus sustainability team worked with CompuCycle 
to host an electronics collection event to celebrate 
America Recycles Day. The event helped educate 
ExxonMobil employees and local community 
members about the importance of responsible 
electronic waste disposal, and resulted in more than 
11,000 pounds of electronic waste being disposed 
of safely and responsibly.

“To celebrate America Recycles Day, 
the Houston campus sustainability 
team wanted to educate 
ExxonMobil employees and 
the local community about the 
benefits of recycling. CompuCycle 
helped us accomplish this, while 
also giving people an easy way 
to responsibly dispose of their 
electronic waste from home.”

David Willis
ExxonMobil Houston campus 
sustainability team recycling lead

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

41

Local development and supply chain managementThe ExxonMobil campus near Houston, Texas. 

6 Corporate 

governance

Governance practices

Good corporate governance creates a business environment 
conducive to long-term investments and sustainable economic 
growth. ExxonMobil implements a variety of corporate 
governance practices, underpinned by a board comprised 
predominantly of independent directors. Our Standards of 
Business Conduct, adopted and administered by the board of 
directors, cover a range of topics including labor, diversity, the 
environment and anti-corruption.

Ethics and integrity

We observe the highest standards of integrity and ethics to 
develop, approve and implement projects around the world. 
ExxonMobil requires that employees, officers, directors and 
those working on our behalf comply with all applicable laws, 
including the U.S. anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-boycott, trade 
sanctions and export controls laws, as well as laws in other 
countries applicable to our business. In 2016, nearly 47,000 
employees and contractors participated in anti-corruption 

Ethics & 
integrity

Board 
leadership

Transparency

Political advocacy
& contributions

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

42

Corporate governancetraining and business practice reviews. For additional information 
on how ExxonMobil works to uphold the highest ethical 
standards, see the Standards of Business Conduct.

Standards of Business Conduct

Transparency 

ExxonMobil supports multi-stakeholder engagement for the 
purpose of increasing transparency of government revenues 
from the extractive industries. Our long-standing efforts to 
promote revenue transparency have helped reduce corruption, 
improve government accountability and promote greater 
economic stability worldwide. In order to be successful, 
a transparency initiative should: 

•   Apply to all companies; 

•   Protect commercially sensitive and proprietary information; and

•   Not violate host government laws or contractual obligations. 

The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a 
global program dedicated to strengthening governance by 
improving transparency and accountability in the extractives 
sector. Companies and governments participating in EITI 
separately report payments and revenues, respectively, 
allowing EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals 
and publish validated total government revenues. ExxonMobil 
has held an active role at both the secretariat and country 
levels since EITI’s inception more than a decade ago. An 
ExxonMobil representative has served on the EITI board as 
either a primary or alternate member since it began. 

ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation and 
implementation processes wherever we operate. We are also 
currently working with governments in several countries, 
including Guyana and Mexico, which are considering joining 
EITI. There are currently about 51 countries that are compliant 
members or have been accepted as candidates to begin 
reporting under the EITI Standard.

Board leadership 

ExxonMobil’s affairs are managed independently under the 
direction of our board of directors. All directors are required 
to stand for election each year at our annual meeting of 
shareholders. At year-end 2016, 11 of 13 directors, including the 
presiding director and all members of the audit, compensation, 
public issues and contributions, and board affairs committees, 
were independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange 
guidelines. In 2016, the board met 12 times. Independent 
leadership is also supported by the presiding director, a 
non-employee director who, in consultation with the chairman, 
reviews board agendas and materials to be distributed to 
directors before board meetings, among other responsibilities. 
For more information about our board structure, visit the 
corporate governance section of our website.

Corporate governance

Up Close:
Board PICC trip to Baytown, Texas

Each year, members of the public issues and contributions committee (PICC) visit a company site 
to gain a deeper understanding of ExxonMobil operations and to view first-hand the execution 
of ExxonMobil standards, principles and capabilities. In 2016, the PICC visited our Baytown and 
Mont Belvieu facilities in Texas to view progress on the North American Growth Project. The 
project is part of a larger Gulf Coast investment program, called Growing the Gulf, that will create 
or support 45,000 construction and full-time jobs. For more information, see the case study on 
page 36.

Founded in 1919, the Baytown refinery and petrochemical complex is located about 25 miles outside 
of Houston, along the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery consists of manufacturing sites, chemical 
plants and a global technology center. These sites employ more than 7,000 workers, and the 
refinery has a potential capacity of 561,000 barrels of crude oil per day. Within the Baytown area, 
our Mont Belvieu plant manufactures the film that bundles water bottles and heavy-duty sacks 
used to store food, and the Baytown olefins plant is one of the largest ethylene-producing plants 
in the world.

The trip included a reception and dinner at Lee College, a community college that is part of 
ExxonMobil’s Petrochemical Initiative, to engage with local community and civic leaders, including 
the Baytown mayor and the chair of the Houston Port Authority. Additionally, the PICC attended 
a lunch with employees from Mont Belvieu and the Baytown olefins plants.

ExxonMobil directors (bottom row) attending the PICC trip to Baytown and Mont Belvieu, 
along with ExxonMobil executives. From left: (Top row) Woody Paul, Paul Fritsch, Mike Dolan, 
Jeff Woodbury, Paul Guilfoyle, Cindy Shulman, (Bottom row) Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, 
Henrietta Fore, Kenneth Frazier, Steven Reinemund, Angela Braly and Douglas Oberhelman. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

43

Corporate governanceWith our most recent board additions, the ExxonMobil board 
stands at 13 directors, 12 of whom are non-employee directors. 
We describe current director qualifications in our proxy 
statement, and the guidelines the board employs in selecting 
board candidates are published on our company website and 
regularly reviewed.

2016 proxy vote summary

Item

Percent vote for1

2016

1.  Election of directors (average)2

2.  Ratification of independent auditors2

2017 proxy statement

3.  Advisory vote on executive compensation2

Good corporate governance is an essential element of corporate 
social responsibility. Corporate citizenship topics typically 
fall under the purview of the public issues and contributions 
committee, the board affairs committee and the compensation 
committee, and are routinely reviewed at board meetings. 
While risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board, 
committees help the board focus on risk aspects relevant 
to each committee. For example, the PICC is charged with 
reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, programs 
and practices with respect to the environment, among other 
duties. The committee hears reports from operating units 
on environmental activities and also visits operating sites 
to observe and comment on current practices. The entire 
board receives briefings by internal experts on environmental 
stewardship and climate change.

Board selection process 

We value the diversity of the board in regard to gender, race, 
geography, experience and fields of expertise. We believe 
maintaining this diversity is critical to our success in a globalized 
market. In 2016, 45 percent of the board’s independent 
directors were female, African-American or from outside the 
United States. Four of the seven most recent additions to the 
board demonstrate this cultural and intellectual diversity.

Below we introduce our most recent board member additions: 
Angela Braly and Susan Avery. 

Angela Braly

Susan Avery

Angela Braly was elected to the ExxonMobil board in 2016. 
Ms. Braly served as president and chief executive officer of 
WellPoint from 2007 to 2012 and chairman from 2010 to 
2012. Her current company directorships include Brookfield 
Asset Management, Lowe’s and Procter & Gamble.

Susan Avery was elected to the board in early 2017. Dr. Avery, 
an atmospheric scientist, is the former president and director 
of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. In 2013, she 
was named to the Scientific Advisory Board of the United 
Nations Secretary-General, which provides advice on science, 
technology and innovation for sustainable development.

Board committees overview

Executive compensation and strategic advantage

ExxonMobil’s business model is reflective of a capital-intensive 
industry, requiring long investment lead times and a significant 
focus on risk management. Our executive compensation 
program supports this business model and focuses our 
executives on continuous improvement, effective risk 
management, operations integrity and sustainable growth 
in shareholder value. 

Our compensation committee carefully considers the 
feedback on executive compensation we receive from our 
shareholders, some of whom have held ExxonMobil stock for 
more than a decade. During the 2016 proxy season, the 
advisory vote on executive compensation received 89 percent 
of votes “For” the company’s program. For more details 
on our executive compensation program, see our board 
leadership webpage.

Board leadership 

Shareholder relations

We value the dialogue we have with our shareholders on 
a variety of governance, social and environmental topics 
throughout the year. Our direct engagement with shareholders 
provides an effective forum to address issues, share relevant 
information and viewpoints, and align on the facts. 

In 2016, we held 51 shareholder engagements on environmental, 
social and governance issues with institutional investors, 
pension funds, and labor, religious and nongovernmental 
organizations, representing almost 40 percent of outstanding 
stock held by institutional investors. These engagements 
have frequently allowed us to reach common ground with 
our shareholders, in some cases avoiding the need for more 
formal shareholder proposals at the annual shareholders meeting. 
The board has established procedures for shareholders and 

95.9

98.9

89.3

38.7

20.9

2.0

61.9

8.4

25.7

4.1

18.5

38.1

5.6

24.5

4. 

Independent chairman

5.  Climate expert on board

6.  Hire an investment bank3

7.  Proxy access bylaw4

8.  Report on compensation for women

9.  Report on lobbying

10. Increase capital distributions

11. Policy to limit global warming to 2°C3

12. Report on impacts of climate change policies3

13. Report reserve replacements in BTUs3

14. Report on hydraulic fracturing

1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals.
2Proposals submitted by the board.
3First-year proposal.
4ExxonMobil adopted a proxy access bylaw on November 1, 2016.

other interested parties to communicate with them, which 
further underpins the importance that the board places on 
shareholder input. At the corporation’s 2016 annual meeting, 
shareholders owning approximately 3.5 billion — or more 
than 85 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. In 
2016, shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, 
executive compensation and 11 shareholder proposals. The 
summary table above shows the 2016 proxy vote results.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

44

Corporate governancePolitical advocacy 
and contributions 

Because public policy decisions made at all levels of government 
can have significant effects on our current and future operations, 
ExxonMobil communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress, 
state legislatures and governments around the world. 

In the United States, lobbying activities include direct 
communication with members of Congress, state legislators, 
administration and regulatory officials, as well as support for 
trade associations and other groups that engage in lobbying 
activities. We fully comply with registration and reporting 
regulations related to our lobbying activities. In 2016, we 
reported total federal lobbying expenses of about $12 million 
in our disclosure reports to Congress.

We make political contributions to candidate committees and 
political organizations as permitted by applicable laws. We 
refrain from making political contributions in any countries 
other than the United States and Canada. In 2016, we contributed 
almost $222,000 to state candidates and caucuses in 12 U.S. 
states.* ExxonMobil’s political action committee (PAC) disbursed 
more than $957,000 to federal and state candidates.* Corporate 
political contributions are subject to an internal review 
process that requires approval from the chairman. The political 
contributions of the corporation, as well as the contributions 
from the company-sponsored PAC, are reviewed by the board 
of directors annually and are routinely verified during internal 
audits of the corporation’s public affairs activities. As shown 
on the right, ExxonMobil engaged last year on a variety 
of issues in support of responsible economic, energy and 
environmental policies. For additional information on political 
contributions, the issues ExxonMobil engaged on in 2016 
and our associated positions, visit our political advocacy and 
contributions webpage. 

Political advocacy and contributions

ExxonMobil Energy Factor

Topic

Climate change 

Education 

ExxonMobil’s position 

ExxonMobil supports the Paris Agreement, which addresses climate change as a 
global challenge for all nations.

ExxonMobil supports science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education initiatives as part of a path to global competitiveness and advocates for 
efforts to raise academic standards. 

Energy infrastructure

ExxonMobil supports the continued development of necessary energy infrastructure.

Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling

ExxonMobil supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing.

International trade 

Regulatory improvement 

Renewable fuel standard 

ExxonMobil supports lifting restrictions on exports of energy products because 
expanding markets can benefit all consumers.

ExxonMobil supports common-sense reforms to improve transparency, accountability 
and objectivity of regulations that would enable effective enforcement, improve 
public safety and minimize economic costs.

ExxonMobil opposes fuel mandates such as the renewable fuel standard because 
they distort free markets, do not provide claimed environmental benefits and 
increase costs to consumers.

Tax policy 

ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that enable the energy industry to remain 
competitive in the global marketplace.

Toxic Substances Control Act

ExxonMobil supported the Toxic Substances Control Act reauthorization and 
modernization to strengthen safety standards.

Up Close:

Engaging on TSCA modernization

The primary law overseeing the safety of chemical products in the United States — the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) — 
provides the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency authority to review and regulate chemicals in commerce. TSCA was 
designed to ensure that products are safe for intended use. In 2016, ExxonMobil and the American Chemistry Council 
strongly advocated in support of the bipartisan legislation to enhance the TSCA process and provide for a uniform national 
system of chemical regulation. In June 2016, the president signed into law the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for 
the 21st Century Act, which reauthorized and modernized TSCA to strengthen safety standards.

* Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned 
contributions not yet posted.  

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

45

Corporate governance 
 
 
Performance data

We assess our performance at many levels of the organization, from individual operational sites to the business lines, to support continual improvement 
in all areas of corporate citizenship. Starting in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. As part of our commitment to transparently 
communicate our performance, in 2014 we started reporting our data over a 10-year period to demonstrate performance trends over time. For data that 
is discussed in more detail in this report, we reference the corresponding page number in the table. Data included in the performance table is guided by 
the reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015). For additional information 
on our corporate citizenship reporting, please see the IPIECA/GRI/SDG index.

IPIECA/GRI/SDG index

Performance data table*
Safety, health and the workplace

Fatalities — employees

Fatalities — contractors

1Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)

1Fatal incident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)  

2Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)

2Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)

2Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)

2Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)

2Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)

2Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)

Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance)

3,4Number of regular employees at year end, thousands

4Percent of workforce — outside the United States

4Percent women — global workforce 

Percent management and professional new hires — women

Percent management and professional new hires — outside the United States

Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands

Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars

Managing climate change risks

5Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

6Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat) 

7Emissions associated with imported power 

Greenhouse gas emission consituents (excludes emissions from exported power and heat),  
millions of metric tons

CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)
Methane (CO2-equivalent)
Other gases (CO2-equivalent)

Emissions from exported power and heat

By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

Africa/Europe/Middle East

Americas

Asia Pacific

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Page #

0

8

0.018

0.013

0.031

0.065

0.048

0.33

0.43

0.38

N/A

81

63

25

38

71

35

61

135

125

10

0

5

0.011

0.011

0.054

0.049

0.051

0.37

0.49

0.43

N/A

80

63

25

39

69

48

69

126

117

9

4

4

0.017

0.012

0.043

0.040

0.041

0.32

0.39

0.36

69

81

63

26

38

63

52

71

123

114

9

0

3

0.006

0.006

0.048

0.031

0.038

0.25

0.34

0.30

62

84

60

26

40

70

61

77

126

117

9

0

9

0.017

0.017

0.064

0.086

0.077

0.30

0.41

0.37

70

82

61

26

44

79

65

80

128

119

9

1

4

0.010

0.010

0.042

0.049

0.046

0.25

0.37

0.33

63

77

59

28

39

68

76

88

126

118

8

0

6

0.011

0.009

0.051

0.041

0.044

0.22

0.32

0.29

62

75

59

28

39

66

87

96

127

119

8

0

3

0.006

0.006

0.032

0.030

0.031

0.19

0.29

0.25

65

75

58

28

40

61

79

0

2

0.004

0.004

0.043

0.029

0.034

0.21

0.26

0.24

74

73

59

28

41

61

85

0

3

0.008

0.008

0.027

0.030

0.029

0.16

0.23

0.20

64

71

59

28

44

74

83

117

124

108

123

115

8

122

114

8

125

117

8

131

122

119

122

124

120

119

116

115

118

3

1

14

50

65

20

3

1

13

45

62

19

3

1

14

43

62

18

3

1

13

45

64

17

3

1

15

45

66

17

5

1

15

44

68

14

7

1

16

44

70

13

6

1

7

43

66

14

6

1

4

44

65

13

7

<1

3

44

65

16

12

12

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

12

N/A

N/A

12

N/A

15

15

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

14

20

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

46

Performance data2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Page #

Managing climate change risks (continued)

By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Carbon dioxide — captured for storage, millions of metric tons

5 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100  
metric tons of throughput or production

53

59

23

49

57

20

47

56

20

50

55

21

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Energy use (billion gigajoules)

Energy intensity, normalized versus Global Energy Management System (GEMS) base year (2002) — refining

Energy intensity, normalized versus GEMS base year (2002) — chemical steam cracking

Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons

8Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts

Environmental performance

8Number of acres of managed wildlife habitat

Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel

9Significant spills to the environment 

Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel

Oil spills, number of oil spills > 1 barrel

Other spills, number of  chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel 

Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels

Other spills, thousands of barrels

Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons

Upstream

Refining  

Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons 

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons

21.7

21.5

62.1

1.6

94.2

89.6

8.0

4.5

370

N/A

320

0.07

0.81

2.36

0

N/A

253

224

29

7.5

0.5

1.7

1.2

0.5

0.21

0.16

0.26

21.0

21.0

59.8

1.5

93.7

90.4

5.7

4.6

370

N/A

350

0.08

0.90

2.56

0

N/A

211

185

26

20.3

0.4

1.8

1.3

0.5

0.19

0.15

0.20

20.1

21.0

60.7

1.5

92.8

88.6

4.4

4.9

380

N/A

340

0.09

0.85

2.46

0

N/A

242

208

34

17.4

0.5

1.4

1.1

0.3

0.16

0.13

0.18

54

54

20

5.0

20.7

20.0

57.2

1.5

90.9

87.3

4.1

5.0

56

51

19

4.8

22.3

19.6

56.3

1.5

90.0

88.2

3.6

5.2

58

49

20

5.9

23.2

19.7

57.0

1.4

90.5

88.8

3.7

5.3

56

47

20

6.9

23.9

19.2

53.4

1.4

90.3

86.4

4.5

5.5

56

45

21

6.9

23.9

18.9

53.6

1.5

91.2

86.6

5.3

5.5

59

45

21

6.3

24.6

19.5

52.2

1.5

90.7

84.2

5.0

5.3

20.5

20.8

57.9

1.5

91.8

87.6

3.6

4.9

6,400

6,900

7,000

7,000

7,200

7,100

7,200

N/A

330

0.10

0.87

2.41

0

N/A

210

186

24

7.7

40.4

1.3

1.1

0.2

0.14

0.12

0.18

540

370

0.26

0.88

2.64

0

N/A

484

387

97

17.8

2.0

1.3

1.1

0.2

0.13

0.15

0.18

520

330

0.26

0.82

2.41

0

20

356

294

62

8.5

1.6

1.2

1.0

0.2

0.13

0.14

0.15

420

280

0.24

0.74

1.98

0

17

330

280

50

9.3

0.9

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.12

0.14

0.15

420

270

0.19

0.74

1.79

0

19

334

288

46

9.1

4.1

1.3

1.2

0.1

0.10

0.14

0.16

450

300

0.35

0.73

1.83

0

11

319

280

39

10.8

0.4

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.11

0.14

0.16

440

290

0.30

0.76

1.75

0

9

220

188

32

4.7

3.7

1.1

1.0

0.1

0.10

0.13

0.15

N/A

N/A

N/A

18

20

20

20

20

N/A

N/A

21

21

N/A

N/A

27

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

28

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

47

Performance data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

2016

Page #

Environmental performance (continued)

VOCs emitted, metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Refining  

Chemical

Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars

0.059

0.015

0.039

3.8

0.044

0.012

0.043

5.2

0.042

0.011

0.036

5.1

0.044

0.012

0.036

4.5

0.049

0.011

0.032

4.9

0.044

0.010

0.036

5.5

0.054

0.009

0.034

6.0

0.059

0.008

0.029

6.2

0.058

0.008

0.027

5.6

0.055

0.008

0.027

4.9

Total dollars spent on environmental penalties and fines, billions of dollars

0.002

0.011

0.002

0.011

0.003

0.004

0.002

0.018

0.015

0.006

Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons

10Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons

Community engagement, human rights and strategic investments 

11Community investments, millions of dollars

United States

Rest of world

Local development and supply chain management

0.1

0.1

206.6

124.1

82.5

0.2

0.4

252.2

144.6

80.6

1.2

0.8

235.0

143.0

92.0

0.6

1.3

237.1

154.8

82.3

1.3

1.9

278.4

161.3

117.1

1.7

2.0

255.6

156.5

99.1

1.1

0.3

269.5

156.3

113.2

1.0

0.3

279.5

150.2

129.3

1.4

0.2

272.3

145.5

126.8

1.4

0.1

241.5

131.1

110.4

12ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars 

582

615

887

841

1,068

1,001

1,024

1,108

1,064

1,442

Corporate governance

13Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries

Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting

Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars

6

84.9

0.27

8

84.8

0.45

8

82.9

0.49

7

80.7

1.10

7

81.9

0.51

7

83.0

1.03

9

82.3

0.70

10

82.9

1.17

11

83.9

0.58

15

85.1

0.52

N/A

N/A

N/A

27

N/A

N/A

N/A

35

35

35

39

N/A

44

N/A

Notes on performance table:

1Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2007 through 2016 all fatalities were injury-related. 

2 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Incidents include both injuries and illnesses. Depending on the reporting year, illness-related incidents range from 2 to 13 percent. 

3Reduction from 2011 is primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business.

4 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our company-operated 
retail stores are not included.

5 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2005 according to the new metric. The net equity greenhouse gas metric includes 
direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations,  reflecting our percent 
ownership in an asset.

6 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1. 

7  These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.

8Cumulative figure.

9ExxonMobil began measuring significant spills to the environment, the number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus, in 2012.  

10 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 95 percent of the reported figure in 2008 through 2012.

11Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.

12 Beginning in 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minority-owned businesses; women-owned businesses, small businesses; lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned businesses; veteran-owned 

businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned businesses; and businesses owned by peoples with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.

13In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence.

*  Some uncertainty exists in performance data, depending on measurement methods. Data in the report and performance data table represent best available information at the time of publication. Performance data are reported for our affiliates and those 
operations under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Includes XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. N/A is used to indicate that data are not available, or not detailed in this report outside the performance data table. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

48

Performance data 
 
LRQA Assurance Statement

Relating to Exxon Mobil Corporation’s Corporate Citizenship 
Report for the calendar year 2016.

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Exxon Mobil 
Corporation in accordance with our contract but is intended for 
the readers of this report.

Terms of engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was commis-
sioned by Exxon Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) to assure its 
processes for reporting safety, health and environmental IPIECA 
performance indicators used in the Corporate Citizenship Report 
(CCR) for the calendar year 2016, to a reasonable level of assur-
ance using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered ExxonMobil’s operations and 
activities worldwide and specifically the following requirements:
•  Verifying the integrity of the processes used for determining 

which material issues to report;

•   Evaluating consistency with the following industry guidelines: 
    •   IPIECA/API, Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 

Sustainability Reporting (2015),

    •   API, Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation 

Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (2009).

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy 
of data and information reported.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to ExxonMobil. LRQA disclaims any 
liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. 
ExxonMobil’s management was responsible for preparing the CCR 
and for maintaining effective internal controls over the reporting 
processes and CCR. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an 
assurance engagement on the reporting processes in accordance 
with our contract with ExxonMobil. Ultimately, the CCR has been 
approved by, and remains the responsibility of, ExxonMobil.

LRQA’s opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that ExxonMobil’s 
reporting processes were effective in delivering safety, health and 
environmental indicators that are useful for assessing corporate 
performance and reporting information consistent with IPIECA/
API Guidance.  

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level 
of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment of 
the Verifier. 

for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and 
Gas Industry (2009);

•  Active engagement with external stakeholders provided 

LRQA’s approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance 
with our Verification procedure1; the following tasks were 
undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this 
assurance engagement:
•  Reviewing the reported information to confirm the inclusion of 

all core safety, health and environmental performance indicators 
referenced in the IPIECA/API Guidance;

•  Reviewing the documented reporting requirements against the 
applicable industry guidelines to assure consistency of scope, 
definition and reporting for each of the relevant indicators;

•  Reviewing the reporting processes at Headquarters and at each of 
the functional business levels to evaluate the processes used by 
ExxonMobil to assure completeness, consistency and conformance 
to reporting requirements across its global operations;

•  Reviewing the stakeholder engagement processes;
•  Reviewing the processes used to aggregate the data and 
information at the corporate level for inclusion in the CCR;

•  Reviewing ExxonMobil’s data collection tools to assess use in the 

information for determining material issues.

Observations and areas for potential improvement were 
provided in a report to ExxonMobil’s management. These 
recommendations do not affect our opinion. 

LRQA’s competence and independence
LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals 
based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome 
of all verification and certification assessments is then internally 
reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach 
applied is rigorous and transparent.

LRQA is ExxonMobil’s certification body for ISO 9001 and ISO 
14001 (lubricants operations) and Responsible Care® (chemical 
operations) and the California Air Resources Board greenhouse 
gas verification. The certification and verification assessments are 
the only work undertaken by LRQA for ExxonMobil and as such 
do not compromise our independence or impartiality.

reporting processes;

Signed 

Dated:  March 30, 2017

•  Reviewing the data-reporting processes at a sample of nine 

operating sites selected by LRQA to assess local understanding 
and implementation of reporting requirements. Sites selected 
were SARPOM Trecate Refinery, Italy; Exxon Neftegas, Sakhalin, 
Russia; Mont Belvieu Plastics Plant, Texas; Beaumont Chemical 
Plant, Texas; and lubricant facilities in Apapa, Nigeria; Tianjin, 
China; Port Allen, Louisiana; Edmonton, Canada; and 
Jurong, Singapore.   

Observations 
Further observations and findings made during the assurance 
engagement are:
•  Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to core 
safety, health and environmental metrics understood corporate 
reporting obligations and were included in corporate safety, 
health, environmental and climate change reporting;

•  Methods used for calculating each metric were defined clearly 

and communicated;

•  Processes were in place to ensure that the quantitative indica-

tors were checked for completeness, consistency and accuracy;

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting 

guidelines was clear, with improvement in methodology 
regularly undertaken; 

•  Guidelines for greenhouse gas emissions reporting were 

consistent with, and specifically refer to, the API Compendium 

Andrea M. Bockrath 

LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 

LRQA Reference: UQA0110889

1 LRQA’s Verification procedure is based on current best practice and uses the 
principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and 
Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000.

Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, 
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause 
as “Lloyd’s Register”. Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not 
be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on 
the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that 
person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the pro-
vision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is 
exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s 
Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into 
other languages.

This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it 
refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the 
Lloyd’s Register Group.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

49

Assurance statment 
 
 
Explore our complete 2016 Corporate Citizenship Report at exxonmobil.com/citizenship.

Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso, Mobil 1 and XTO Energy. For convenience and 
simplicity, those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our, we and its) are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate 
groups. ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which Exxon Mobil Corporation common 
stock (symbol XOM) is traded. The term “project” as used in this publication can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same 
meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.

Statements of future events or conditions in this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including future energy supply, demand, and mix; 
the future effectiveness of safety, health, environmental, and other risk management processes; efficiency gains; and the impact of future technologies could 
differ materially due to factors including changes in supply and demand for oil and gas and other factors affecting long-term oil and gas prices; political and 
regulatory factors including the impact of international accords and treaties; changes in consumer preferences; actions of competitors including the development 
of competing technologies; the outcome of current and future research efforts; technical and operating factors; and other factors discussed under the heading 
“Factors Affecting Future Results” available through the Investors page of our website at exxonmobil.com.

Exxon Mobil Corporation
Corporate Headquarters
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas  75039-2298
exxonmobil.com

