2011|2012 Sustainability Report

Well positioned.

ABOUT THIS REPORT

Duke Energy’s 2011 Annual Report and this 2011|2012 Sustainability Report again 
share a common theme. “Well positioned” is an apt description of our company in 
2012, as we start to see real results from the plans we’ve put in place to prepare 
for the future. 

This report describes our progress in bringing advanced energy technologies 
to market, reducing our environmental footprint, strengthening our position as a 
best-in-class employer, contributing to the vitality of our communities and growing 
our business in a responsible way. 

Key features of this year’s report include:
 X CEO Jim Rogers’ letter, which explains how the company is well-positioned 

for the future

 X A two-page overview of progress toward our goals (Sustainability Plan and 

Progress at a Glance)

 X Specifics on the company’s performance in our five sustainability focus areas
 X Duke Energy employees’ own accounts of their roles in our sustainability efforts.

As in the past, this report is available in both print and Web versions. The printed 

report covers the issues that are most important to our stakeholders and to us. 
We denote online-only content, including mouse-over definitions, with this icon: 
We also list Web exclusive articles in each section of the printed report.

. 

In addition, we provide a summary index to the Global Reporting Initiative 

indicators in the printed report and a more detailed index on our website. 

Duke Energy International’s Sustainability Report, which covers our Latin 

American operations in detail, is available at duke-energy.com. 

As always, we welcome your feedback on this report, our sustainability 

progress and related issues. Email sustainability@duke-energy.com.

Contents 

Duke Energy at a Glance. . . . . . . .  3

Letter from the Chairman  . . . . . . .  5

Sustainability Plan and  
Progress at a Glance. . . . . . . . . . .  8

Innovative Products and Services . .  10

Environmental Footprint  . . . . . . . .  16

Quality Workforce  . . . . . . . . . . . .  25

Strong Communities . . . . . . . . . . . 29

Governance and Transparency . . . . 32

Global Reporting Initiative . . . . . . . 34

Independent Review . . . . . . . . . . . 35

Company Profile

Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the 
United States. Our regulated utility operations serve 4 million electric customers 
in the Carolinas, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky, and a half-million natural gas 
customers in Ohio and Kentucky. Our Commercial Power and International 
Energy business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets 
in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable 
energy assets in the United States.

2011 Recognition

 X In 2011, for the second consecutive 
year, Duke Energy was named to 
the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
Index (DJSI World). We were also 
named to the North American DJSI 
for the sixth year in a row.

Our Mission

At Duke Energy, we make people’s lives better by providing gas and electric services 
in a sustainable way — affordable, reliable and clean. This requires us to constantly 
look for ways to improve, to grow and to reduce our impact on the environment.

Our Values

 X Safety — We put safety first in all we do.
 X Caring — We look out for each other. We strive to make the environment 

and communities around us better places to live.

 X Integrity — We do the right thing. We honor our commitments. We admit 

when we’re wrong.

 X Openness — We’re open to change and to new ideas from our co-workers, 
customers and other stakeholders. We explore ways to grow our business 
and make it better.

 X Passion — We’re passionate about what we do. We strive for excellence. 

We take personal accountability for our actions.

 X Respect — We value diverse talents, perspectives and experiences. 

We treat others the way we want to be treated.

2  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

 X Corporate Responsibility magazine 
named Duke Energy to its 2011 
“100 Best Corporate Citizens List.” 

 X Duke Energy was listed on the 

Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index 
— a ranking of large U.S. companies 
that publicly engage on the issue of 
climate change.

Additional awards and recognition are 
mentioned throughout this report. 

DUKE ENERGY AT A GlANCE: YEAR-END 2011

U.S. FRANCHISED ElECTRIC AND GAS

COMMERCIAl POwER

Generation Diversity
(percent owned capacity)

Customer Diversity
(in billed gigawatt-hour sales)

  Coal 
  natural gas/fuel oil  
  nuclear 
  Hydro 

47% 
22% 
  19% 
  12% 

  residential 
  Commercial  
  Industrial 
  Wholesale/other 

33% 
32% 
  26% 
  9% 

u.S. Franchised electric and gas (uSFe&g) consists of 
Duke energy’s regulated generation, and electric and gas 
transmission and distribution systems. uSFe&g’s generation 
portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different 
operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide 
energy at the lowest possible cost. 

Electric Operations
 X Owns approximately 27,400 megawatts (MW) of 

generating capacity

 X Service area covers about 50,000 square miles with an 

estimated population of 12 million 

 X Service to approximately 4 million residential, commercial 

and industrial customers 

 X Over 152,200 miles of distribution lines and a 20,900-mile 

transmission system

Gas Operations
 X regulated natural gas transmission and distribution services 
to approximately 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio 
and northern kentucky

Generation Diversity
(percent owned capacity)

Commercial Power owns, 
operates and manages 
power plants, primarily 
located in the Midwest, 
and a renewable energy 
portfolio. Commercial 
Power’s subsidiary, 
Duke energy retail, serves 
retail electric customers 
primarily in Ohio with 
generation and other energy 
services at competitive rates. 
Commercial Power also includes Duke energy generation 
Services (DegS), an on-site energy solutions and utility 
services provider. 

  natural gas 
  Coal 
  renewable 
  Other 

44% 
41% 
  12% 
  3%

 X Owns and operates a balanced generation portfolio 

of approximately 7,550 net MW of power generation 
(excluding wind and solar generation assets)

 X Duke energy renewables currently has over 1,000 MW 
of wind energy in operation, owns 55 MW of commer-
cial solar capacity and has a significant pipeline of 
development projects

DUKE ENERGY INTERNATIONAl

Duke energy International 
(DeI) operates and manages 
power generation facilities 
and engages in sales and 
marketing of electric power 
outside the u.S. DeI’s 
activities target power 
generation in latin America. 
DeI also has an equity 
investment in national 
Methanol Co., a Saudi 
Arabian regional producer 
of MTbe, a gasoline additive.

Generation Diversity
(percent owned capacity)

  Hydro 
  Fuel oil 
  natural gas 
  Coal 

  68% 
19% 
  11%
  2%

 X Owns, operates or has substantial interests in 

approximately 4,300 net MW of generation facilities

 X nearly 70 percent of DeI’s generating capacity is 

hydroelectric

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  3

 
 
 
 
 
I’m Accountable 

Shawn Heath, Vice President, Sustainability 
and Chief Sustainability Officer

Shawn Heath was 
named Duke Energy’s 
chief sustainability officer 
in early 2012. In this Q&A, 
he offers his perspective 
on Duke Energy’s journey 
to a sustainable future.

Why does sustainability continue to be a 
priority at Duke Energy?  We continue to see 
a compelling business case for sustainability. 
Simply put, it creates value throughout our 
company. It’s also a continuation of our proud 
history of corporate citizenship. And it pushes 
us to find the right balance among the needs 
of people, the planet and profits. 

Of course, actions speak louder than words. 
That’s why we set concrete goals to work toward 
every year. Tangible examples of “sustainability 
in action” include our efforts to reduce landfill 
waste, to offer new energy efficiency programs 
to our customers and to develop more renew-
able energy projects, just to name a few. The 
benefits of these and other actions, many of 
which are highlighted in this report, create that 
business case for sustainability.

Sustainability will remain a priority as our 
company moves forward, because the benefits 
are real — as are the risks associated with 
overlooking sustainability issues.

How will Duke Energy build on its framework 
for sustainability?  Our overall approach must 
be as dynamic as the energy industry itself. We 
must continually adjust our strategies and our 

4  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

actions to account for the changing expecta-
tions of our stakeholders, advancements in 
technology, the political landscape and more. 

We must continue to deliver affordable, 
reliable and increasingly cleaner energy. We 
need to maintain our leading role in providing 
the innovative products and services our 
customers want. We must also continue to 
shape public policy. We’re actively engaged 
in each of these areas — and we’ll continue 
to collaborate with our stakeholders to find 
sustainable solutions to our industry’s issues.

We’ve built a strong foundation for 
sustainability since 2006. Back then, 
“sustainability” was misunderstood and 
even rejected by some of our employees 
and external stakeholders. Today, a growing 
number of stakeholders are not only interested 
in sustainability, but also expect the company 
to be a leader in this area.

As a result of engaging our employees in 
sustainability, dozens of innovations are paying 
off internally and in our communities. In 2012 
and beyond, we will continue to provide 
employees with the tools and training they 
need to act on their own ideas, and expand our 
network of internal sustainability champions. 

What excites you the most about leading 
sustainability for Duke Energy at this 
particular time?  We’re going through an 
incredibly transformative era for our industry. 
Evolving environmental regulations and 
emerging technologies will have profound 
impacts on our customers and company well 
into the future. I believe that sustainability 
can provide the road map for Duke Energy to 
successfully navigate this uncharted territory.

No single person or department “owns” 
sustainability at Duke Energy — it is a 
collaborative effort. Sustainability leadership 
is evident throughout our company, but it must 
also become part of our organizational DNA. 
I firmly believe we’re heading in that direction.

Duke Energy has always been about providing 
electricity and gas services — and so much 
more. The way we go about our business has a 
direct and lasting impact on the communities 
where we operate, the customers we serve, 
the shareholders who invest in our business 
and, of course, the environment. We recognize 
and embrace the opportunity in front of us 
— to conduct our business in a way that is 
truly sustainable.

Letter  
From The 
Chairman

We are finding that 
sustainability is one 
of the ways we are 
unlocking innovation 
and improving our 
business. And, in a 
challenging economy, 
it helps us increase 
efficiency and 
reduce costs.

Jim Rogers, Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer

Dear Stakeholders: 
Sustainability is about doing the 
right things today, to create a better 
tomorrow. like anything worth doing, 
that’s not always easy. As we prepare 
for the future, we must also deal with 
the realities of today.

The current realities for Duke energy 
are the rising cost of providing clean and 
reliable energy, navigating the regulatory 
process for a major merger, managing 
through a painfully slow economic 
recovery and, as always, balancing the 
needs of our many stakeholders.

I approach my role as CeO as a 
leader who looks to the future and 
positions our company for what’s next. 
We need to be ready to meet ever-
higher environmental standards, to 
embrace the latest technologies, and 
to forge new partnerships — around 
the corner and around the globe.

I’m proud of the progress we’ve 
made. We are finding that sustainability 
is one of the ways we are unlocking 
innovation and improving our business. 
And, in a challenging economy, it helps 
us increase efficiency and reduce costs.

Our most recent accomplishments 

are outlined in this report and in our 
annual report 
, which shares the 
“Well positioned” theme.

Here, I’ll briefly summarize the 
highlights of the past year, and how 
we’re positioned for the future. but first, 
a word about the status of our pending 
merger with Progress energy.

We spent considerable time and 
energy on merger integration planning 
throughout 2011. regulatory approval, 
frankly, is taking longer than we 
expected. In particular, the Federal 
energy regulatory Commission (FerC) 
has raised concerns about the merged 
company’s potential wholesale market 
power in the Carolinas. 

Our goal for this merger is to strike 
the right balance between benefits to 
our customers and our shareholders. 
We must also balance the expectations 
of our state commissions to keep 
electricity costs low, and the FerC’s 
concerns about market power.

On March 26, we filed a revised 
wholesale market power mitigation 
plan with the FerC, and as of this 

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  5

 
“ By pursuing a diverse generation mix — and bringing 
the benefits of digital technology to our power grid 
— we will be well-positioned to deliver affordable, 
reliable and clean energy for years to come.”

writing we are awaiting the agency’s 
decision. The merger is also subject to 
approvals by the north Carolina and 
South Carolina commissions, and other 
legal conditions prior to closing.

The closing date will depend on the 
successful completion of the regulatory 
approval process. As a merged or stand-
alone company, we are well-positioned 
for the future — and for the changes 
new technologies will bring to the way 
we generate and deliver electricity. 

Real results

Through a year marked by merger 
uncertainty, a slow-to-recover economy 
and major storms in the Carolinas and 
the Midwest, I could not be more proud 
of our employees. The people of Duke 
energy have always laid the groundwork 
and done the hard work to meet our 
customers’ energy needs.

I look back on 2011 as the year 
we saw our vision for the future begin 
to take shape. We’ve set aggressive 
goals and put the plans in place 
to achieve them — and now we’re 
seeing real results.

I have to start with what matters 
most — safety. We had zero employee 
or contractor work-related fatalities 
for the first year since 2008. And our 
employee Total Incident Case rate 
has improved every year since 2006. 
Again, our people deserve the credit 
— from our senior leaders who keep 
the focus on safety, to the front-line 
workers in the field, who consistently 
put safety first.

Modernization milestones

We are nearing the finish line on the 

first phase of the modernization of our 
generation fleet. This major undertaking 
not only provides cleaner energy; it also 
spurs economic growth — creating 
thousands of construction jobs.

Construction of a cleaner-coal 
unit at our Cliffside Steam Station in 
north Carolina and our edwardsport 
coal-gasification plant in Indiana 
are nearly complete. When they go 
into operation later this year, they 
will provide coal-fired generation 
that’s among the cleanest in the 
united States.

In north Carolina, the natural 
gas-fired combined-cycle 
 unit 
at buck Steam Station has begun 
operation, and another at Dan river 
Steam Station will be operational 
this year.

Although we’ve had regulatory 
challenges around cost recovery for 
the edwardsport project, we believe 
the costs we’ve incurred have been 
reasonable, prudent and necessary. 
A decision by the Indiana utility 
regulatory Commission on cost 
recovery is not expected before the 
end of the third quarter of this year.
Our modernization efforts will 
continue, as we upgrade some coal 
units and retire others that are reaching 
the end of their useful lives. And 
we continue to pursue the option to 
develop more nuclear energy. As the 
only technology available today to 
generate carbon-free, reliable electricity 
24/7, nuclear power is vital to our 
energy future. 

We are also partnering with energy 

companies in China to develop new 
clean energy technologies. In addition, 
we continue to monitor the long-term 
potential for low-cost natural gas 
from shale formations, in light of 
vast u.S. supplies. 

At the same time, we are 
working to modernize our power 
grid — replacing the analog-based 
equipment that has served us well 
for decades. A digital grid moves 
power more efficiently, helps 

6  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

reduce outage restoration time and 
enables our customers to better 
manage their energy use. It also 
provides more options for bringing 
renewable power onto the grid, and 
can better accommodate the use of 
plug-in electric vehicles. 

every type of generation has its 
advantages and disadvantages. by 
pursuing a diverse generation mix — 
and bringing the benefits of digital 
technology to our power grid — 
we will be well-positioned to deliver 
affordable, reliable and clean energy 
for years to come.

Responsible rate recovery

All this modernization doesn’t 

come without a cost. We are spending 
$7 billion to bring four new advanced-
technology power plants on line. 
We recover those and other capital 
investments through customer rates, 
spread over the operating lives of 
the plants.

We have received approval for rate 
increases in north Carolina and South 
Carolina — and for a new electric 
Security Plan in Ohio that enables 
customers to take advantage of today’s 
low market rates. 

As we continue our modernization 

program, customers can expect 
additional increases. However, our 
objective is to continue to control costs 
and keep our rates as low as possible.
To help customers cope with rising 
rates, we continue to expand our energy 
efficiency programs. In just a few short 
years, energy efficiency — helping 
customers curb their energy use and 
costs — has evolved from an industry-
changing initiative to become part of 
the way we do business. 

Reliable and cleaner generation 

, topping 90 percent for the 

It was a great year for the perfor-
mance of our power plants. Our nuclear 
fleet achieved a 93.0 percent capacity 
factor 
12th consecutive year. According to the 
nuclear energy Institute, the average 
capacity factor for u.S. nuclear plants 
in operation in 2011 was 89.0 percent. 
In addition, based on early reports by 
euCg, a utility benchmarking group, 
our nuclear fleet had the nation’s lowest 

 
total operating cost per kilowatt-hour 
in 2011, and our Catawba nuclear 
Station was the nation’s most cost-
efficient plant.

Our regulated fossil fleet achieved 
87.8 percent commercial availability 
, 
consistent with past strong performance. 
Our u.S. commercial fleet exceeded its 
operational targets with 88.9 percent 
availability, and our Midwest gas-fired 
plants achieved record generation levels. 
We’re also seeing real results in our 

environmental performance. 
The carbon intensity 

 of our 

domestic fleet is improving, based on 
the latest available data for u.S.-based, 
investor-owned generators. Our carbon 
intensity ranking moved from 10th 
highest in 2008 to 12th highest in 
2010 — even though we remained 
the fifth largest of those generators. 
Our international operations, consisting 
mostly of carbon-free hydropower, lower 
the carbon intensity of our total fleet by 
about 10 percent.

And, as of year-end 2011, we’ve 
reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by 
almost 76 percent and nitrogen oxides 
emissions by 52 percent since 2006 
— thanks to environmental equipment 
we’ve installed at many of our coal-fired 
generating stations. 

Moving on renewables

We are greatly expanding our 
renewable energy portfolio. We have 
invested more than $2.5 billion in our 
commercial renewable business over 
the past five years. by the end of 2012, 
we expect to have more than 1,800 
megawatts of commercial wind and 
solar power in operation. nearly all of 
that capacity is already committed for 
sale under long-term contracts with 
other electricity suppliers. 

Wind and solar farms are often 
located in remote areas. So we’re also 
partnering with other companies to build 
transmission lines that will deliver clean, 
renewable energy to population centers 
— and also boost reliability and relieve 
congestion on the power grid. 

In 2011, we formed a joint venture 

with American Transmission Co. to 
develop critically needed long-distance 
transmission projects across north 
America. And through a joint venture 

“ Our commitment is to be nimble enough to 
adapt to change and new challenges, as we 
aspire to be the best and most innovative 
company in our industry.”

with American electric Power, we 
plan to build and operate 240 miles 
of high-capacity transmission lines 
in Indiana.

Water is a valuable source of renew-
able generation that we’ve relied on for 
generations. Duke energy International 
has a new, small hydroelectric plant 
in operation in brazil; another is under 
construction and slated to begin 
operating by the end of 2012. And in 
2011, we replaced two 1919-vintage 
hydroelectric turbines at our bridgewater 
Hydro Station in north Carolina.

Support for our communities

Our community support grew 
again in 2011. Charitable giving from 
The Duke energy Foundation and 
the company, along with employee 
and retiree donations and the value 
of volunteer hours, totaled more 
than $31 million in 2011, compared 
to about $29 million in 2010. 

And our economic development 
teams helped bring commitments of 
nearly $4 billion in capital investments 
and 13,635 new jobs to our service 
areas in 2011 — in the midst of a 
“jobless recovery.”

ranked on the DJSI north America for 
the sixth year in a row. 

This recognition is a tremendous 
accomplishment — and it acknowledges 
our efforts to build a sustainability 
mindset throughout our business. In this 
report, you will read about our steady 
progress toward meeting our company’s 
sustainability goals, and how individuals 
and whole departments are accountable 
for achieving sustainable results.

looking ahead

In the near term, the pending 
merger with Progress energy remains 
top of mind. Meanwhile, we never 
take our eyes off the jobs at hand — 
safely serving the energy needs of our 
customers, reducing our environmental 
footprint, building a quality workforce, 
supporting our communities and 
maintaining value for our shareholders. 
Our commitment is to be nimble 
enough to adapt to change and new 
challenges, as we aspire to be the best 
and most innovative company in our 
industry. regardless of what 2012 and 
the years beyond have in store, Duke 
energy remains strong, resilient and 
well-positioned for a sustainable future.

Returns for our shareholders

Sincerely,

Financially, our earnings exceeded 

2010 results and our own expecta-
tions. In a continued weak economy, 
we ended 2011 with adjusted diluted 
earnings per share of $1.46. We also 
increased our quarterly dividend by 
about 2 percent. Our total shareholder 
return 
than our utility peers’ 19.3 percent, and 
well above the S&P 500’s 2.1 percent. 
For the second straight year, our 
sustainability efforts earned us a place 
on the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
Index. Duke energy was one of only 
13 utilities selected worldwide. We also 

 of 30.3 percent was better 

Jim Rogers 
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer
April 5, 2012

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  7

 
Duke Energy Sustainability Plan  
and Progress at a Glance

1 Innovative Products  

and Services

Provide innovative products and services in a carbon-constrained, competitive world.

2

Environmental 
Footprint

reduce our environmental footprint.

WHy it mattErs: Our customers want products and services that keep them 
competitive, yet respond to environmental concerns.

WHy it mattErs: As an energy 
company, we have a large impact on 
the environment and depend on natural 
resources for our fuel.

CORPORATE SUSTAINABIlITY GOAlS

CORPORATE SUSTAINABIlITY GOAlS

Reliable Energy: Maintain the high 
reliability of our generation system.

2011 Status:

nuclear capacity factor 
approximately 93.0 percent versus 
a target of 92.8 percent.

 was 

regulated fossil commercial availability 
 was approximately 87.8 percent 

versus a target of 89.2 percent.

nonregulated fossil commercial 
availability and wind energy yield 
combined was approximately 
88.9 percent versus a target of 
86.2 percent. 

Reliable Energy: Maintain the high 
reliability of our distribution system.

2011 Status: Though we have 
improved reliability substantially in 
recent years, we did not meet our 
aggressive 2011 goals due to large 
numbers of storms.

Average number of outages* was 1.18 
versus a target of 1.07. 

Average outage duration* was 
157 minutes versus a target of 
138 minutes. 

* 

 Outages longer than 5 minutes; statistics are 
reported per customer.

Energy Efficiency: Reduce customer 
energy consumption by 2,500 
gigawatt-hours (GWh) and peak 
demand by 2,100 megawatts (MW) 
by 2013. 

2011 Status: 

As of year-end 2011, energy 
consumption was reduced by 
1,963 gWh.

As of year-end 2011, peak demand 
was reduced by 1,409 MW. Current 
forecasts indicate that this goal will 
be achieved by 2014, not 2013 as 
originally anticipated.

Renewables: Scale up to 3,000 MW 
of wind, solar and biomass by 2020.

2011 Status: We added 60 MW of 
wind and solar energy in 2011, ending 
the year with 1,070 MW in service. 
We plan to complete five additional 
wind farms in 2012. 

Affordable Energy: Maintain rates 
lower than the national average.

2011 Status:

Duke energy’s regulated average 
retail rates in north Carolina, 
South Carolina, Indiana and 
kentucky were significantly 
lower than the u.S. average. 

Due to the economic downturn and 
drop in wholesale prices, our regulated 
average retail rate in Ohio, which was 
set in 2008 through the end of 2011, 
was above the national average. 
For information on how we addressed 
this issue, see “reaching agreement 
on affordable rates” in the Innovative 
Products and Services section 
of this report. 

8  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

Carbon Emissions: Reduce or offset the 
carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emissions from our 
U.S. generation fleet 17 percent from 
2005 by 2020 (i.e., go from 105 million 
tons in 2005 to 87 million tons in 2020). 

2011 Status: Our u.S. generation 
fleet emitted about 91 million tons of 
CO2 — down from almost 98 million 
tons in 2010. This reduction was due 
to decreased generation resulting from 
lower electricity demand, decreased coal 
generation and increased natural gas 
generation. Current forecasts indicate 
higher electricity demand and other 
factors will cause our emissions to exceed 
the 2020 goal. new nuclear generation 
capacity, if completed in the 2021-2023 
time frame as currently forecasted, will 
help reduce these emissions. 

Carbon Intensity: Reduce the carbon 
intensity (tons of CO2 emitted per net 
megawatt-hour of electricity produced) 
of our total generation fleet from 0.63 in 
2005 to 0.50 by 2020. 

2011 Status: Total generation fleet 
carbon intensity decreased — from 0.60 
in 2010 to 0.58 in 2011 — due to the 
same factors mentioned above. While our 
annual carbon intensity levels fluctuate 
from year to year, we anticipate a 
continued downward trajectory from the 
2005 baseline. However, our most recent 
forecast indicates that our carbon inten-
sity will slightly exceed the 2020 goal.

waste: Increase the percentage of solid 
waste that is recycled from 52 percent 
in 2008 to 62 percent by 2012. (This 
goal excludes Duke Energy International 
and Duke Energy Generation Services.)

2011 Status: We recycled almost 
28,000 tons of materials, or about 
64 percent of the total waste stream. 
Having already achieved our goal, we 
plan to further improve our recycling 
performance in 2012. 

 
Duke Energy Sustainability Plan  

and Progress at a Glance

This sustainability plan reflects Duke energy’s commitment to operate in a way that is good for people, 
the planet and profits. It expands on the company’s business strategy and values. We will update our 
sustainability plan and goals after the merger with Progress energy, which is currently pending.

3

Quality 
Workforce

4

Strong 
Communities

Governance and 
Transparency

5

attract, develop and retain a diverse, 
high-quality workforce.

Help build strong communities.

Be profitable and demonstrate strong 
governance and transparency.

WHy it mattErs: energy companies will 
be differentiated by the quality, creativity 
and customer focus of their employees.

WHy it mattErs: Our success is 
linked to the health and prosperity of the 
communities we serve.

WHy it mattErs: Creating shareholder 
value and earning the trust and 
confidence of our many stakeholders 
keeps us in business.

CORPORATE SUSTAINABIlITY GOAlS

CORPORATE SUSTAINABIlITY GOAl

CORPORATE SUSTAINABIlITY GOAl

Philanthropy: Continue to track the 
number of lives positively impacted 
by our support of key community 
partners. 

2011 Status: We continued 
to measure the impacts of our 
philanthropy on communities. 
We evaluated 12 of our largest 2010 
grants, totaling just over $3 million. 
by engaging with our key community 
partners, we learned that those grants 
had a positive impact on more than 
820,000 lives. Some of the grants 
had an impact in 2011, while others 
were for projects, such as building 
construction, that will have impacts in 
later years (not included in the results).

Shareholder Return: Outperform 
our peers in total shareholder return 
(TSR) 
 annually and over a three-
year period, as measured by the 
Philadelphia Utility Index.

2011 Status: Our TSr was 
30.3 percent for 2011, exceeding 
our peers as measured by the 
Philadelphia utility Index. TSr 
for the index was 19.3 percent in 
2011. Duke energy has achieved 
a cumulative three-year TSr of 
74.1, while the industry’s TSr was 
38.7 percent. 

Safety: 

Achieve zero work-related fatalities. 

2011 Status: There were no contractor 
or employee work-related fatalities in 
2011. We attribute this success to the 
continued safety focus of employees, 
contractors and management.

Achieve top-decile safety performance 
in employee Total Incident Case Rate 
(TICR) 

 by 2012.

2011 Status: We improved TICr to 
0.86, from 0.9 in 2010. employee 
TICr has improved 43 percent since 
2006. We are on track to be in the top 
decile of our industry peers in 2012. 

Employee Engagement: Maintain 
management and employee 
engagement at 75 percent and 
64 percent, respectively, or higher, 
as measured by favorable scores on 
survey questions.

2011 Status: Management and 
employee engagement were 84.9 
and 73.7 percent, respectively.

PrOGrEss KEy:

 AChIEVED Or ON TrACk

 CurrENTly NOT ON TrACk

 GOAl NOT AChIEVED

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  9

 
1

Challenges

 X Keep rates below the national 
average as we continue to 
invest in modernizing our 
system

 X Grow our renewable energy 
portfolio, despite rising 
competition from lower 
natural gas prices 

Opportunities

 X Help customers save power 
and money through energy 
efficiency offerings that also 
benefit the environment

 X Continue to be a leader in 

building a digital grid network

 X Prepare for widespread 

customer adoption of plug-in 
electric vehicles

2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights

 X Obtained regulatory approval of 
rate increases in the Carolinas 
that balance our customers’ 
economic challenges with 
our need to recover our 
investments

 X Obtained regulatory approval 

of a new Electric Security Plan 
in Ohio that enables customers 
to take advantage of today’s 
low market rates and gives our 
company greater clarity and 
operational flexibility

 X Deployed energy efficiency 
programs to help customers 
lower their energy bills

 X Continued digital grid 

pilots in the Carolinas and 
deployments in Ohio 

 X Announced five wind projects, 
which will increase the amount 
of wind power we operate 
to nearly 1,800 megawatts 
by year-end 2012 

Innovative Products and Services

Helping customers save 
energy and money

incentive programs to maximize 
energy efficiency in their facilities. 

It’s one thing for a utility to talk about 
energy efficiency; it’s another to give 
customers the tools to make a real 
difference in their energy use and costs. 
Duke energy has launched scores of 
efficiency offerings to our business 
and residential customers across our 
service areas.

The environment also benefits. 
Helping customers use less energy 
reduces the need for Duke energy to 
run older, less efficient power plants, 
and can also help delay the need to 
build new plants. (To learn more, visit 
duke-energy.com/environment.)

Saving energy and money can 
be as easy as changing a light bulb. 
Since 2010, we have distributed nearly 
20 million free or discounted compact 
fluorescent light bulbs (CFls) throughout 
our service areas. 

CFls last up to 10 times longer 
than incandescent bulbs and use up to 
75 percent less electricity. On average, 
each CFl saves about $40 in energy 
costs over the expected lifetime of the 
bulb. Half of our low-income customers 
have participated in our CFl program.

 On our youtilitySM 

 website 

(duke-energy.com/youtility), residential 
customers join Duke energy employees 
in conversations about their personal 
paths to energy efficiency. Customers 
can also learn about their energy usage, 
find low- to no-cost energy-saving tips, 
and explore products and services to 
help tame their energy bills. Since Duke 
energy launched youtility in July 2011, 
it’s had more than 245,000 page views. 

Duke energy also encourages 

businesses and institutional customers 
to save energy, through programs 
such as:

 X Smart $aver®,  which offers financial 
incentives for implementing energy 
efficiency measures

 X PowerShare®,  a demand-response 
program that rewards business 
customers for adjusting their 
energy consumption during peak 
time periods

 X Smartbuilding Advantage®,  which 
provides customers with on-site 
assessments and customized 

every year since 1993, Duke energy 

has selected a group of large-business 
customers as Power Partners. They are 
recognized for implementing innovative 
and money-saving energy solutions — 
with proven results. 

To learn how our 2011 Power 
Partners have saved energy and 
money, read the rest of this article 
in the Innovative Products and 
Services section of our online 
Sustainability Report. 

Power grid modernization 
under way

Duke energy is well-positioned to bring 
the benefits of digital technology to 
our customers — as we modernize our 
electric power grid to improve system 
performance, efficiency and reliability.
upgrading our power delivery 

network from analog to digital 
technology provides the capability for 
near-real-time communication across 
the system — even letting the system 
“talk to itself” through distribution 
automation. 

‘Self-healing’ capability

One important benefit of distribution 

automation is “self-healing” capability. 
Digital devices we’re installing on 
our lines and poles work together 
as a “team” to reduce and even 
prevent outages. 

Without these technologies in place, 

when a tree or other object comes 
in contact with a power line, every 
customer served by that line — and 
other lines connected to it — loses 
power. With self-healing technology, 
computers automatically detect the 
problem, isolate it and reroute power — 
so fewer customers are left in the dark. 
Most of the self-healing equipment 

we’ve installed to date has been in 
Ohio, where we’re implementing 
grid modernization on a large scale. 
The installation of 17 self-healing 
teams in Ohio has helped avoid over 
1.1 million outage minutes for more 
than 20,000 customers. A total of 
nine self-healing teams have been 

10  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

Innovative Products and Services

I’m Accountable 

Jessica Bishop
Director, Electric Vehicle Program Development

I’m accountable for the plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) readiness 
program at Duke Energy. My organization oversees efforts to prepare 
for widespread customer adoption of electric vehicles. These efforts 
include pilot programs with our customers, as well as internal studies 
to determine potential impacts on the power grid.

Through our pilot programs, the company is learning about the technical 
aspects of PEV charging stations, and what we can expect from the 
charging behaviors of customers. As part of our Carolinas-based pilot, 
Charge|Carolinas, we are installing 150 “intelligent” charging stations in 
customers’ homes at little or no cost to them. These stations will enable 
us to wirelessly access a wealth of charging data, including power usage, 
the time of day customers charge their vehicles and charging frequency. 

Ideally, PEVs are charged overnight, when demand for electricity is 
low. If we can provide the right programs to encourage customers 
to charge during off-peak hours, we’ll be better able to manage this 
new load using our existing power plants. As our CEO Jim rogers likes 
to say, “The cleanest, most cost-effective power plant is the one we 
don’t have to build.”

The environment will also benefit as PEVs are more widely adopted, 
due to decreased emissions. Even in regions where most electricity is 
produced by coal, PEVs reduce greenhouse gases by 25 to 30 percent 
over conventional vehicles (source: GoElectricDrive.com). And considering 
today’s high gasoline prices, our customers will save at the gas pump and 
help reduce u.S. dependence on foreign oil.

Our Project Plug-IN pilot in Indiana includes the installation of charging 
stations in both residential and commercial locations – a total of 125 
are planned. 

As PEVs become a practical transportation option, I’m committed 
to making sure they will be plugging into a power grid that remains 
affordable, reliable and safe.

With these two pilots, we believe we will own the largest number of 
charging stations of any North American electric utility. From the 
knowledge we gain, Duke Energy can better meet our customers’ 
needs and expectations. 

To learn more about the benefits of PEVs, visit duke-energy.com/plugin.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  11

 
installed in Indiana, kentucky and 
north Carolina, with more planned 
over the coming years.

Digital meters

Another way customers benefit 
from grid modernization is through 
meter replacement. by year-end 2011, 
we had installed more than 325,000 
digital electric meters, more than 
228,000 digital gas meters and about 
71,000 communication nodes in Ohio. 
The nodes serve as the “nerve center” 
of the digital grid by collecting and 
transmitting data systemwide. 

Many of our meters in Ohio are 
located inside customers’ homes, 
making them difficult to read manually. 
With digital meters, we get the readings 
remotely. That has reduced the number 
of estimated bills we send to our Ohio 
customers by more than a third. 

In addition, customers receive more 

information about their daily energy 
usage, enabling them to make wiser 
energy decisions and gain more control 
over their energy use and costs.

We’ve also installed nearly 14,500 
digital meters in Charlotte, n.C., in an 
area where we are piloting a residential 

energy management program. We 
have another 2,350 digital meters 
in greenville County, S.C., as part of 
a technology pilot conducted to test 
various manufacturers’ products for 
full-scale deployment.

Ten years ago, in north Carolina 

and South Carolina, we installed 
meters that enable drive-by reading — 
which improves billing accuracy and 
reduces operational costs. We are now 
evaluating technology that can provide 
those customers with information on 
their daily energy usage as well. 

Duke energy’s long-term plan for all 

of our service areas is to continue to 
upgrade the power grid, with regulatory 
approval, in order to provide the most 
reliable and efficient service possible 
to our customers. 

Envision Charlotte expands 
scope and participation

 — a public/private 

envision Charlotte 
collaboration between Duke energy, 
Cisco, Verizon Wireless and others — 
was announced at the 2010 Clinton 
global Initiative 
aggressive goal: reduce energy usage 
in Charlotte’s uptown business district 
by 20 percent by 2016. That’s about 
the same amount of energy it would 
take to power 40,000 homes per year.
Since the announcement, the scope 

, along with an 

of envision Charlotte has grown. It’s 
now a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization 
with a comprehensive strategy for 
environmental sustainability that goes 
beyond energy to include air, water 
and waste. More than 50 volunteers 
from 28 businesses, nonprofits 
and government groups constitute 
envision Charlotte’s board and five 
subcommittees.

Powered by Smart Energy Now®
Duke energy’s Smart energy 

now® 
 pilot program is the backbone 
of envision Charlotte’s energy reduction 
goal. Smart energy now pulls from 
behavioral science research to educate 
uptown’s 82,000 workers on how to 
reduce energy consumption through 
small changes in their daily routines.
Interactive kiosks were recently 
placed in the lobbies of more than 

Interactive Smart Energy Now kiosks help 
workers in uptown Charlotte better understand 
and manage their energy use.

12  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

60 participating office buildings. 
each kiosk displays live energy data 
that’s streamed from newly installed 
digital meters. The kiosks also display 
tools, tips and facts about energy use 
in terms that are easy to understand.

We’ve signed up nearly 98 percent 
of eligible uptown office space — about 
21.5 million square feet — surpassing 
our initial participation goal of 
80 percent. 

Others are noticing our efforts. In 
early 2012, Powergrid International 
magazine named Smart energy now 
as the best energy efficiency and 
demand response project in the nation.

Energy Champions

behavioral science suggests that 
once people are armed with information, 
they can take action and create a tipping 
point for change. That’s why Smart 
energy now recruited members of 
Duke energy’s Sustainability Corps 
to be energy Champions — individuals 
who lead by example when it comes 
to changing their habits and reducing 
energy use. 

now we’re deploying the energy 

Champions initiative throughout 
uptown Charlotte. We provide 
training sessions to show future 
energy Champions how to identify 
and eliminate wasted energy in 
their workplaces.

Model for the future

We believe that the Smart energy 
now pilot can be a model for energy 
efficiency programs around the world. 
One day, it could even become a new 
line of business that complements other 
products and services in our energy 
efficiency portfolio. 

In the meantime, we continue to 
fine-tune the program and find new 
ways to engage uptown Charlotte’s 
workforce. We believe that this program 
is the beginning of a dialogue that will 
help bridge the gap between environ-
mental sustainability and economic 
development.

Keep current on Smart Energy Now 

by visiting SmartEnergyCharlotte.com 
or by following us on Twitter: 
@DE_SmartEnergy.

 
Record growth in 
renewable power

Duke energy moved forward with a 
record number of new wind and solar 
projects in 2011, taking advantage 
of falling equipment costs and 
favorable public policy to increase 
our renewable portfolio.

wind power to grow significantly

2011 proved to be a historic year for 
Duke energy’s commercial wind power 
business. Duke energy renewables, 
one of the company’s commercial 
businesses, announced plans to build 
five large-scale wind farms in 2012 — 
two in kansas, two in Texas and one 
in Pennsylvania. 

These new installations, totaling 
770 megawatts (MW), will increase the 
company’s wind generation in opera-
tion to nearly 1,800 MW — in just 
one year. The projects will help Duke 
energy renewables customers (typically 
regional utilities, municipalities and 
electric cooperatives) meet their renew-
able energy requirements and goals.
Since 2007, Duke energy has 
committed more than $2.5 billion 
to grow its wind power business. 
by 2013, our 15 commercial wind 
farms will produce enough electricity to 
power more than a half-million homes. 

Solar investments ramp up

Duke energy renewables also added 
new solar farms to its portfolio in 2011. 
We expanded into the western u.S. with 
the addition of the 15-MW bagdad Solar 
Project and 4-MW Ajo Solar Project, 
both in Arizona. The bagdad site is 
now our largest commercial solar farm 
by capacity, slightly edging our 14-MW 
blue Wing facility in San Antonio, Texas.
In 2011, we brought one 5-MW 
and four 1-MW solar farms on line 
in north Carolina — outside our 
regulated utility’s service footprint. 
And our 5-MW Stanton Solar Project 
in Orlando, Fla., achieved commercial 
operation in December.

In addition, a partnership announced 

in late 2010 between Duke energy 
renewables, Integrys energy and 
Smart energy Capital resulted in 16 new 
solar power installations over the last 

Duke Energy renewables’ happy Jack wind farm 
in southeast Wyoming can generate enough 
electricity to power about 12,000 homes.

year. The partners completed ground-
mounted photovoltaic (PV) 
for school districts in Pennsylvania 
and new Jersey, as well as rooftop 
PV systems for a health care provider 
in California.

 systems 

In 2011, our regulated utility in 
the Carolinas completed a $50 million 
program to install 8 MW of solar 
energy capacity on the rooftops 
and grounds of select n.C. schools, 
commercial buildings and factories. 
We pay participating customers rental 
payments for hosting our solar panels. 
The electricity produced — enough 
to power roughly 1,300 homes — is 
fed into the power grid that serves all 
our customers in the service area. The 
Solar electric Power Association ranked 
Duke energy Carolinas among its 
top 10 u.S. solar power providers.

The momentum continues in 2012. 

In January, Duke energy Carolinas 
announced a 20-year agreement to 
purchase all of the output from the 
5-MW kings Mountain Solar facility, 
located approximately 30 miles west 
of Charlotte, n.C. The solar farm, 
which was developed by Strata Solar, 
is among the largest in the state.

Duke energy Carolinas expects 
to further boost its supply of solar 
power in the coming years, thanks 
to lower equipment costs and more 
cost-competitive proposals from project 
developers. We are relying on solar 
energy, electricity from landfill gas and 
biopower to help meet north Carolina’s 
renewable energy mandate.

Electricity goes hog wild

Hog farmer loyd bryant used to 
manage the manure his 8,640 hogs 
generated each week by pumping 
it into an open-air lagoon. Then he 
would spray the effluent onto fields of 
grass and millet to absorb the highly 
concentrated nutrients — standard 
procedure for hog farms.

Today, the lagoon that once 
produced a stench of methane and 
ammonia gases is becoming a clean-
water pond — thanks to an innovative 
waste-processing system. 

And that’s not all. Methane, a potent 

greenhouse gas 

 captured from the 

hog manure, is fueling a small power 
plant that makes enough energy to run 
the waste-processing system and much 
of bryant’s 154-acre farm.

Duke energy partnered with Duke 
university and google to build and test 
the $1.2 million prototype at loyd ray 
Farms in yadkinville, n.C. 

Duke energy will use the resulting 
renewable energy certificates to help 
meet state requirements for electricity 
generation from hog waste. Duke 
university also earns credits to offset its 
carbon emissions, and will sell google, 
owner of a data center in nearby lenoir, 
a portion of its carbon offsets. Proceeds 
from the offsets sale will fund further 
research. bryant, in turn, saves money 
on electricity and enjoys a cleaner farm.
This project is attracting national 
attention at a time when a growing 
number of livestock operations are 
implementing waste-to-energy systems. 
The prototype is positioned to become 
the standard for a cleaner waste-to-
energy model — bringing farmers, 
utilities and corporations together in a 
way that benefits both their stakeholders 
and the environment.

working with China on 
clean energy

Duke energy continues to work closely 
with some of China’s leading energy 
companies to develop clean energy 
technologies. In 2011, the company 
broadened its relationships to include 
some of China’s top banks, as well.
below are highlights of some of 
Duke energy’s latest China initiatives.

Carbon capture and nuclear operations
In February 2012, Duke energy 
and Huaneng group, China’s largest 
electric utility, signed a new three-
year agreement expanding their 
research cooperation in the areas of 
advanced-coal and carbon capture and 
sequestration 

 technologies.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  13

 
Martins Creek Elementary School in Murphy, N.C., shares in the 
revenues from this solar farm, owned by Duke Energy renewables 
and located on the school’s grounds.

The Chinese banks’ portion 

represents the highest participation level 
ever by Chinese financial institutions in 
a u.S. electric utility’s credit facility.

EcoPartnership

Duke energy and Chinese energy 
giant enn group have joined forces to 
form an “ecoPartnership” between the 
cities of Charlotte, n.C., and langfang, 
China, 40 miles southeast of beijing. 
The partnership focuses on solar power, 
smart grid technology, energy efficiency 
and battery storage of electricity in both 
cities. The umbrella ecoPartnership 
program — administered by the 
u.S. Department of State and China’s 
national Development and reform 
Commission — encourages collaborative 
public/private initiatives designed to 
stimulate innovative and sustainable 
economic development.

Read the rest of this article in the 
Innovative Products and Services section 
of our online Sustainability Report. 

Reaching agreement on 
affordable rates

electricity is the lifeblood of thriving 
communities, a vibrant job market and 
a secure economy. Duke energy works 
to keep electricity costs affordable for its 
customers, and our rates are among the 
lowest in our industry. 

However, new environmental 

regulations are requiring utilities to make 
major modifications to our power plants. 
(See “New and Pending Environmental 
Regulations” table in the Environmental 
Footprint section of this report.) In 
addition, it’s time to retire some of 
our older power plants and replace 

 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT

 X Breaking ground on renewable 

energy storage

 X Getting renewable power to 

where it’s needed

them with new, cleaner-technology 
generation. The resulting costs are 
driving up electricity prices across the 
country, during a period of continuing 
economic uncertainty. 

Our challenge is balancing our 
customers’ need for reliable, affordable 
and clean electricity, while meeting the 
expectations of our shareholders. We met 
that challenge during 2011 through rate 
agreements in Ohio and the Carolinas.

Ohio

Ohio regulators approved Duke 
energy Ohio’s new electric Security 
Plan (eSP) for customers. The plan 
began Jan. 1, 2012, and runs through 
May 2015. Our customers told us they 
wanted both choice and predictability, 
and we believe this plan provides it. 
Here’s how it works:

In Ohio, Duke energy’s only 

nonregulated service territory, genera-
tion supply is purchased on the open 
market. under the new eSP, competitive 
auctions provide customers with access 
to today’s low market prices. Due to 
the currently low price of natural gas, 
residential customers who continue 
to receive their electric generation 
from Duke energy Ohio are seeing an 
approximate 17 percent decrease in 
their total bill, compared to rates under 
the prior eSP. Also, as part of the new 
eSP, Duke energy Ohio will transfer 
its generating assets to a nonregulated 
affiliate no later than year-end 2014, 
further supporting competition.

Carolinas

In the Carolinas, the company has 
invested billions to replace aging power 
plants with cleaner electric generation 

 X Video: Growing Solar at Maple View Farms
 X Video: Self-healing Network
 X Video: Digital Meters Give you the Power
 X Video: Paper Madness

 X Solar field test — breaking through 

VIDEO

the clouds 

 X Paperless billing — in tune with customers 

and the environment 

 X Customer satisfaction results 

Clean, Affordable, 
renewable Wind 
Energy

The two companies agreed in 2009 

to pursue high-level discussions and 
information sharing on a number of 
renewable and clean energy fronts. 
That same year, Huaneng group 
developed a facility to capture carbon 
dioxide from a large coal-fired power 
plant in China. 

The new agreement calls for an 
engineering study to determine if the 
same low-cost carbon capture process 
could be used at Duke energy’s gibson 
Station in Indiana. The project is 
sponsored by the u.S.-China Clean 
energy research Center (CerC), 
established in 2009 for joint research 
and development on clean energy 
technology. The CerC has a five-year, 
$100-million budget: $25 million from 
u.S. members (including Duke energy), 
$25 million from the u.S. government 
and $50 million from China’s 
government.

In 2011, Duke energy’s Catawba 
and Oconee nuclear power stations in 
South Carolina hosted 14 nuclear plant 
operators from Huaneng group for two, 
month-long information-sharing sessions 
on nuclear safety and reliability. Another 
is scheduled for this year. 

Major credit agreement

Three of China’s major banks will 
collectively provide $676 million of a 
$6 billion, five-year credit facility for 
Duke energy. It’s part of an agreement 
signed in 2011 between the company 
and 30 financial institutions worldwide. 
The company has immediate access to 
$4 billion under the credit agreement, 
and $2 billion becomes available upon 
the successful closing of our pending 
merger with Progress energy.

A valuable source of funding diversity 
and liquidity, the new credit facility adds 
financial strength and flexibility to the 
company’s balance sheet. It replaces a 
previous $3.14 billion credit facility that 
was set to expire in June 2012. 

14  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

technologies, to meet increasingly 
stringent regulatory requirements and 
to upgrade our power delivery system. 
Primarily to recover the cost of 
modernizing our generation fleet, 
our rates increased in the Carolinas 
beginning in February 2012. A typical 
residential customer who uses 1,000 
kilowatt-hours of electricity monthly in 
north Carolina or South Carolina now 
pays approximately $7 or $6 more each 
month, respectively, than before the 
rate increases. However, Duke energy’s 
new rates in the Carolinas remain 
competitive in the region — and well 
below the national average.

Our commitment

While the approved rate changes are 

different for each state, what doesn’t 
vary is Duke energy’s commitment to 
give back to the communities we serve. 
All of the rate agreements include provi-
sions to help attract industries and jobs 
to Duke energy service areas. They also 
support weatherization programs and 
assistance for lower-income customers.
We are confident that these changes 
strike the right balance between today’s 
challenging economic times and the 
need to recover investments we’re 
making in an electric system that will 
serve our customers well in the future.

Duke Energy’s Regulated 
Average Retail Rates
12 months ending June 30, 2011
(cents per kilowatt-hour)

 14.00

 12.00

 10.00

U.S. Average 10.11

12.60

7.40

6.71

7.76

7.81

  8.00

  6.00

  4.00

  2.00

0  south  
  Carolina  Carolina

North  Kentucky 

indiana 

Ohio 

Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average rates 
report, Summer 2011 (latest available). rate changes that 
went into effect in early 2012 in Ohio and the Carolinas are not 
reflected in the chart above.

RElIABlE POwER — AlwAYS A PRIORITY

reliability is an ongoing priority at Duke energy — and a fundamental part of 
our mission. We set aggressive reliability targets each year for both the number 
and duration of outages. 

Our reliability efforts are up against a formidable and often unpredictable 

foe — the weather — and 2011 presented one of the most challenging 
years in recent history. In the aftermath of major storms in our Indiana and 
Carolinas service areas, our customers experienced nearly 400,000 outages. 
The Carolinas recorded the highest number of significant weather events 
since 1996. In Ohio and kentucky, the number of lightning strikes (a good 
indicator of strong wind, a major hazard to power lines) hit an all-time high. 

Although Duke energy missed the target we set for the number of outages 
in 2011, we were able to hold the number nearly flat with 2010, despite the 
extreme weather. The weather had a greater impact on our outage duration 
figures, but our long-term trend is steadily improving.

OUTAGE STATISTICS

average number of outages 1 
(occurrences)
average time without power 1 
(minutes)

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2011  
target

1.30

1.13

1.19

1.04

1.11

1.18

1.07

164

133

153

130

144

157

138

1  Outages longer than 5 minutes; statistics are reported per customer.

reliable power also depends on a strong fleet of power plants. Duke 

energy’s generating fleet recorded another year of great performance, 
particularly during periods of peak demand. In 2011, our nuclear fleet recorded 
a capacity factor 
 of approximately 93.0 percent, the 12th consecutive year 
above 90 percent. This exceeded the 89.0 percent average capacity factor for 
u.S. nuclear plants in operation in 2011 (source: nuclear energy Institute). 

Though our regulated fossil fleet missed its aggressive target of 
89.2 percent, it still contributed a respectable 87.8 percent commercial 
availability 
. Finally, our nonregulated Midwest generation and wind fleets 
achieved an impressive combined 88.9 percent commercial availability and 
wind energy yield 

 performance.

GENERATION RElIABIlITY

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2011  
target

Nuclear capacity factor

92.4% 91.5% 93.3% 95.9% 93.0% 92.8%

regulated fossil commercial availability 2

87.0% 85.3% 89.6% 88.7% 87.8% 89.2%

Nonregulated fossil commercial 
availability and wind energy yield 2 
2  Based on units operated by Duke Energy, and on ownership share.
3  First year wind energy yield reported along with fossil commercial availability.

81.0% 84.0% 83.1% 89.7% 88.9% 3

86.2%

Whether we’re finding new ways to anticipate outages and restore service, 

or to generate power more efficiently and sustainably, Duke energy’s goal is 
always the same — to make sure that when our customers flip the switch, 
the power is there.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  15

 
 
 
2

Challenges

 X Keep rates competitive while 
making investments to reduce 
our impact on the environment

 X Monitor, influence and prepare 

for new and pending regulations 
that could impact our generation 
fleet

 X Resolve regulatory challenges 
around cost recovery for 
Edwardsport, a first-of-its-
scale integrated gasification 
combined-cycle coal plant

Opportunities

 X Reduce our carbon intensity 
by retiring and replacing 
older plants with new, 
cleaner generation 

 X Advocate for U.S. energy 

policy that benefits both the 
environment and the economy 

 X Partner to effectively manage 
limited water supplies in 
some regions

 X Continue to participate fully in 

industry efforts to apply lessons 
learned from the Fukushima 
event in Japan

2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights

 X Reduced sulfur dioxide 

emissions by almost 76 percent 
and nitrogen oxides emissions by 
52 percent since 2006

 X Reduced emissions from 

our vehicle fleet by almost 
31 percent since 2006

 X Reduced 2009-2011 average 

electricity consumption at 13 of 
our largest commercial buildings 
by 13 percent, compared to the 
2005-2007 baseline average

 X Recycled almost 28,000 tons of 
materials, or about 64 percent 
of our U.S. solid waste stream

Environmental Footprint

Committed to carbon reduction

For many years, Duke energy has 
advocated for passage of u.S. federal 
legislation to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. We continue to believe 
Congress should act to establish a 
market-based approach to greenhouse 
gas emission reductions. However, 
Congress took no action on this 
important issue in 2011, nor is it 
likely to do so in 2012.

Filling this policy void to some extent, 

in March 2012 the u.S. environmental 
Protection Agency (ePA) proposed a rule 
to limit the carbon dioxide emission rate 
from certain types of new fossil-fueled 
power plants not yet under construction. 
The ePA is expected to issue a similar 
rule for existing power plants at some 
point. These rules will certainly face 
scrutiny from Congress and legal 
challenges in the federal courts.

Meanwhile, President Obama, in 
his January 2012 State of the union 
address, again urged Congress to pass 
a Clean energy Standard that calls for 

the generation of up to 80 percent of 
the nation’s electricity from an array of 
low-carbon sources — including solar, 
wind, nuclear and natural gas — by 
2035. It is unlikely, however, that a 
deeply divided Congress will pass 
such a standard during a contentious 
presidential election year.

Despite Washington’s lack of 
action, in early 2012 the u.S. energy 
Information Administration predicted 
u.S. carbon dioxide emissions will be 
7 percent below their 2005 level by 
2020, and will remain below the 2005 
level into 2035. The reasons include:

 X reduced energy use due to a 

sluggish economy

 X Stringent federal air quality 

regulations and the availability of 
low-cost natural gas, leading to the 
replacement of coal-burning power 
plants with lower-carbon-emitting 
natural gas plants

 X State renewable energy mandates 
that will bring more wind and solar 
generation onto the power grid

16  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

 
Environmental Footprint

I’m Accountable 

Dhiaa Jamil
Group Executive, Chief Generation Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer

Following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that impacted the 
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant in Japan, Duke Energy and the 
nuclear industry took immediate action to re-verify that every station 
is in a high state of readiness to respond to emergency events. In this 
Q&A, Dhiaa Jamil shares some of those actions, and how Duke Energy 
and the nuclear industry will continue to incorporate lessons learned 
from Fukushima.

What actions has Duke Energy taken in response to the events 
in Fukushima?  Following the events in March 2011, we created a 
Fukushima team to monitor the event, integrate lessons learned, and 
coordinate our responses to related oversight activities on the part of the 
Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) and the Nuclear regulatory 
Commission (NrC). Internal, regulatory and industry assessments and 
guidance identified enhancements to further augment safety at each 
of our nuclear power plants. Items identified were either immediately 
implemented or entered into our corrective action program for resolution. 

I would also like to acknowledge the personal contributions made by 
many of our employees in the weeks following the events in Japan. 
Many Duke Energy employees donated to the American Nuclear 
Society’s Japan relief Fund, which was set up to help nuclear power 
plant employees and their families who had been affected by the 
earthquake and tsunami.

How is Duke Energy working within the industry in the aftermath 
of Fukushima?  The nuclear industry has a long history of collaboration 
and teamwork, and Duke Energy is no exception to the rule. Duke Energy 
is working through INPO, the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and the 
Electric Power research Institute (EPrI) to put standards and practices 
in place to address the lessons learned from Fukushima, as well as other 
operating experience. 

Duke Energy personnel are participating in NEI task forces that are 
collaborating with the NrC on requirements arising from Fukushima. 
In addition, INPO is addressing the operations and training aspects 
of the event, and EPrI is carrying out research and analyses of the 
accident. Our participation with these organizations was in place before 
Fukushima, and is part of the nuclear industry’s focus on sharing 
operating experience and best practices. 

To read Dhiaa Jamil’s view on what lies ahead for the nuclear industry, 
please see the continuation of his Q&A in the Environmental Footprint 
section of our Sustainability Report online. 

 X Tougher vehicle fuel-economy 
standards that will reduce 
gasoline consumption.

Some experts question whether a drop 

in carbon emissions can be sustained 
on a long-term basis, especially if the 
u.S. economy experiences significant 
growth in the years ahead. An economic 
reversal would result in increased 
electricity use by homes, commercial 
businesses and industrial plants.
Against this backdrop, Duke 
energy is continuing to modernize 
and decarbonize 
 its fleet of power 
plants — regardless of what happens, 
or doesn’t happen, in Washington, D.C. 
We are also helping our customers 
lower their energy usage through our 
efficiency programs. 

Thanks to these efforts, we are 
seeing results. The carbon intensity 
of our domestic fleet is improving, 
based on the latest available data for 
u.S.-based, investor-owned genera-
tors. Our carbon intensity ranking 
moved from 10th highest in 2008 

to 12th highest in 2010 — even though 
we remained the fifth largest of those 
generators. Our international operations, 
consisting mostly of carbon-free hydro-
power, lower the carbon intensity of our 
total fleet by about 10 percent.

Read about Duke Energy’s fleet 
modernization program in this section. 
And read about Duke Energy’s growing 
renewable power portfolio and our 
energy efficiency and digital grid 
programs in the Innovative Products 
and Services section. 

Positioning our coal 
fleet for more stringent 
environmental regulations

new regulations recently finalized 
or under development by the u.S. 
environmental Protection Agency (ePA) 
present what we call “stroke of pen” 
risks. These rules will require us and 
others in our industry to install new 
environmental control equipment and 
potentially retire some older coal-fired 
generating units. 

At this point, the magnitude, timing 
and compliance costs associated with 
the new rules are uncertain and will 
depend on the final requirements 
of each rule. However, we currently 
estimate that the cost of new 
environmental control equipment to 
comply with these rules could total 
approximately $4.5 to $5 billion over 
the next 10 years. (See “New and 
Pending Environmental Regulations” 
table in this section.)

Over the last 10 years, Duke 
energy has invested about $5 billion 
to reduce air emissions from many 
of our coal-fired power plants. As a 
result, we have reduced sulfur dioxide 
emissions by almost 76 percent and 
nitrogen oxides emissions by 52 percent 
since 2006. Those investments and 
the new state-of-the-art power plants 
we are building have positioned us 
well for complying with environmental 
rules to come. 

For some of Duke energy’s 
coal-fired power plants, the costly 
upgrades needed to comply with new 

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  17

 
 
NEw AND PENDING ENVIRONMENTAl REGUlATIONS

rule name

Purpose

status

Potential impacts

Coal Combustion 
residuals (CCr)

To address the disposal or beneficial 
use of coal ash, synthetic gypsum and 
other coal combustion residuals 

mercury and air toxics 
standards (mats)

To limit emissions of mercury and 
other hazardous air pollutants from 
coal- and oil-fired power plants 
across the u.S.

 X EPA proposed a rule in June 2010 

 X Close or upgrade wet ash ponds

and intends to finalize it by the end 
of 2012

 X EPA is considering both a hazardous 

and a nonhazardous rule

 X upgrade from wet to dry ash 

handling

 X Install new wastewater treatment

 X EPA published a final rule in 

 X Install additional air emissions 

February 2012

control equipment

 X Accelerate the timing of unit 

retirements 

 X Accelerate the timing of unit 

retirements

 X Operating challenges for some units

Cross-state air 
Pollution rule (CsaPr)

To reduce interstate transport of sulfur 
dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions 
from coal-fired power plants, lessening 
the impact of these emissions on ozone 
and fine particle nonattainment in 
downwind states 

 X The final CSAPr was scheduled to 
take effect Jan. 1, 2012, until the 
rule was stayed by a federal court 
on Dec. 30, 2011

 X The Clean Air Interstate rule 

remains in effect until CSAPr legal 
challenges are resolved

316(b) Cooling Water 
intake structures rule 

To protect fish and other aquatic 
organisms from impacts of intake 
structures and passing through cooling 
systems at nuclear, coal and natural 
gas power plants

 X EPA proposed a rule in April 2011

 X Modify existing cooling water 

 X Final rule expected in July 2012

intake structures

 X Install cooling towers

 X Accelerate the timing of unit 

retirements 

steam Electric 
Effluent Guidelines 

To reduce discharge of pollutants 
to waters of the u.S., through 
water permits

 X Proposed rule expected in 

 X retrofit wastewater treatment 

November 2012

facilities

 X Final rule expected in April 2014

 X Change the management of coal 

combustion residuals

environmental regulations make retire-
ment the economic option. Our current 
planning assumption is to potentially retire 
2,773 megawatts (MW) of older coal-
fired generation from the Duke energy 
system by 2015. That’s in addition to 
retirements of 1,027 MW that have 
already occurred in 2011 and early 2012.

We will rely on our Integrated 

resource Planning process 
to determine the best options for 
replacing retired generation capacity.

Reducing our reliance on 
mountaintop coal

Mountaintop-removal coal mining — 
surface mining that’s accomplished by 
removing the tops of mountains where 

the seams of coal are too thin to mine 
any other way — remains controversial.

In the Carolinas, we buy the 
majority of our plants’ coal from 
Central Appalachia, where an estimated 
25 percent of the coal comes from 
mountaintop mines. Our plants in 
the Carolinas were designed to burn 
Central Appalachian coal, so switching 
to fuel from a different coal basin 
is difficult and requires extensive 
tolerance-level testing. 

During 2011, Duke energy tested 
non-Central Appalachian coal in various 
quantities and blends at several of our 
plants in the Carolinas. Test results 
are still being reviewed, but current 
plans are to burn blends of non-Central 
Appalachian coals starting in 2012. 

In addition, we continue our practice 
of purchasing Central Appalachian coal 
that does not come from mountaintop 
mines, when we can do so without 
paying a premium. 

Duke energy expects to reduce its 
dependency on Central Appalachian coal 
going forward, as economics and plant 
reliability warrant. State utility regulations 
require us to keep overall costs as low as 
possible for our customers.

New generation nearing 
the finish line

To provide cleaner, more efficient 
electricity to our millions of customers, 
Duke energy is proactively modernizing 
our generating facilities. retrofits 

18  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

 
COAl PlANT RETIREMENTS

UNITS AlREADY RETIRED

Cliffside steam station

Buck steam station

Edwardsport Generating station

Gallagher Generating station

Dan river steam station

total

1 Per 2009 settlement agreement with the EPA.

POTENTIAl RETIREMENTS

Location

Units

N.C.

N.C.

Ind.

Ind.

N.C.

1, 2, 3 and 4

3 and 4

6, 7 and 8
1 and 3 1
1, 2 and 3

total 
capacity 
(megawatts)

actual 
retirement date

198

113

160

280

276

1,027

2011

2011

2011

February 2012

April 2012

Location

Units

total 
capacity 
(megawatts)

W.s. Lee steam station

Buck steam station

miami Fort Generating station

riverbend steam station

W.C. Beckjord station

Wabash river Generating station

total

S.C.

N.C.

Ohio

N.C.

Ohio

Ind.

1, 2 and 3

5 and 6

6

4, 5, 6 and 7

1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
and 6

2, 3, 4, 5 
and 6

TOTAl ACTUAl/POTENTIAl RETIREMENTS

370

256

163

454

862

668

2,773

3,800

Potential 
retirement date

Potential to convert 
to natural gas or 
retire by 2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

and replacement of several of 
our aging, high-emitting units are 
nearing completion. 

Cleaner-coal construction update

After four-plus years of construction 

and more than $2 billion spent at the 
Cliffside Steam Station in southwest 
north Carolina, the new clean-coal 
unit 6 is expected to begin commercial 
operation in September. It will be one 
of the cleanest coal-burning units in the 
u.S., generating 825 megawatts (MW) 
— enough to power 660,000 homes at 
any one time. 

Four older Cliffside units were 

retired last year, and unit 5 has 
been retrofitted with a sulfur 
dioxide emissions “scrubber.” 

The modernized two-unit facility will 
generate more than twice the electricity 
than the five units did previously, while 
emitting 80 percent less sulfur dioxide, 
50 percent less nitrogen oxides and 
50 percent less mercury. 

The 618-MW integrated gasification 
 edwardsport 

combined-cycle (IgCC) 
project in Indiana is also nearing 
completion, with extensive start-up 
and testing procedures well under way. 
like Cliffside, edwardsport is key to 
modernizing the company’s power fleet.
The new facility, which will convert 
coal into a synthetic gas and strip out 
most pollutants, will make edwardsport 
one of the cleanest coal-fired power 
plants in the world. It will produce 
10 times as much power as the plant 

A new natural gas-fired plant is now operating at 
the site of Buck Steam Station, where two older 
coal-fired units have been retired.

it replaces, while emitting less sulfur 
dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury. 
We pursued this technology partly 
because it allows us to continue using 
Indiana coal, a plentiful local resource, 
to produce energy.

The edwardsport project has had 

its challenges. A plant using this 
technology has never been built on this 
scale before, and the project’s scope 
and complexity drove costs up to an 
estimated $2.98 billion, plus financing 
costs. While that’s more than we 
originally anticipated, we have proposed 
significant steps to mitigate the impact 
on customers’ rates, including capping 
cost recovery at $2.72 billion, plus 
applicable financing costs. 

Indiana utility regulatory 

Commission hearings on the project 
occurred in 2011 and early 2012. 
The commission’s decision on how 
much of the project’s costs can be 
charged to customers is not expected 
before the end of the third quarter 
of this year. Meanwhile, the plant is 
due to begin commercial operation 
by the fall of 2012.

Natural gas update

As part of the company’s fleet 

modernization, Duke energy is 
adding two 620-MW natural gas-fired 
combined-cycle 
 generating units in 
north Carolina — one at buck Steam 
Station and one at Dan river Steam 
Station. both projects will use state-of-
the-art environmental control technology 
to minimize plant emissions.

The buck combustion turbine 

combined-cycle (CTCC) plant in rowan 
County, n.C., began commercial 

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  19

 
 
OUTlOOK ON NEw NUClEAR 

Following the tragic events of 2011 after the earthquake and devastating tsunami off the 
coast of Japan, the u.S. nuclear industry, including Duke Energy, undertook immediate 
actions to re-verify the safety capabilities of every nuclear power plant. Today, we continue 
to act on longer-term recommendations to further protect the public, plant workers and 
the environment. 

Technology solutions

As part of the modernization of 
our generation fleet, we’re putting 
technologies in place to make sure 
we’re using water resources efficiently.

To meet our customers’ future energy needs, Duke Energy is pursuing the option to add 
new nuclear generation to our fleet in the future. In addition to serving as a cost-effective 
baseload energy source, nuclear energy is also our country’s largest source of carbon-free 
electricity, producing no greenhouse gases. 

We have applied for a combined construction and operating license (COl) from the Nuclear 
regulatory Commission for the proposed lee Nuclear Station in Cherokee County, S.C. The 
COl is for two Westinghouse AP1000® reactors — one of the world’s safest and most 
economical nuclear power technologies. Project development activities are under way, and 
we anticipate receiving the COl in the 2013 time frame. 

Duke Energy is also considering the purchase of a minority interest in Santee Cooper’s 
45 percent ownership of two new nuclear reactors at V.C. Summer Nuclear Generating 
Station in Jenkinsville, S.C. In July 2011, Duke Energy signed a letter of intent with Santee 
Cooper to explore a potential 5 to 10 percent interest in the new units.

operation in november 2011, ahead of 
schedule and under budget. The Dan 
river CTCC plant in eden, n.C. is also 
on time and on budget. Construction 
is about 70 percent complete and on 
schedule to begin commercial operation 
in late 2012.

Hydropower update

Hydroelectricity continues to play 

an important role in Duke energy’s 
diverse energy mix by providing clean, 
renewable power to our customers. 
In november 2011, three new 
units at the bridgewater Hydro Station 
on lake James in Morganton, n.C., 
became operable and available for 
service. The new 31.5-MW power-
house increases the station’s capacity 
by 8.5 MW. Oct. 17, 2011, marked 
the official last day of operation 
of two 1919-vintage turbines. The 
new powerhouse was constructed 
downstream to make room for feder-
ally required seismic stability work on 
lake James’ linville Dam.

Also in 2011, we replaced two 

turbines at our Jocassee pumped-storage 
facility in South Carolina, increasing the 
station’s capacity by 50 MW. 

Duke energy brazil’s Palmeiras 

small hydro plant (SHP) began 
commercial operation in February 
2012. electricity generated at 
Palmeiras is already contracted for 
sale through 2017. retiro SHP, located 
in the same region, will begin opera-
tion in november 2012. Together, 
the plants will provide 32 MW of 
installed capacity.

Read about Duke Energy’s use 
of renewable energy in the Innovative 
Products and Services section of 
this report.

water: A critical resource

Water is a critical resource for Duke 
energy. In addition to providing 
hydropower and cooling water for 
our nuclear and fossil plants, water 
resources support public water systems, 
industries, wildlife and recreation. 
Increasing water demands and 
periodic drought conditions remain 
challenges for our company, particu-
larly in the Carolinas. Duke energy is 
working to protect our water supply by 
investing in more efficient technologies, 
and by continuing to work with public- 
and private-sector partners to improve 
water management.

20  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

Hydropower 

The new powerhouse at our 
relocated bridgewater Hydro Station 
improves aquatic habitat by increasing 
dissolved oxygen and allowing 
continuous flow releases downstream. 
In addition, the new generating units 
are larger and more efficient than those 
they replaced, and can therefore produce 
more electricity using less water. 

recent turbine replacements at 
our Jocassee Pumped-Storage Hydro 
Station also improve water efficiency. 
This South Carolina facility is designed 
so the turbines can reverse and pump 
back previously used water from lake 
keowee into lake Jocassee, allowing 
Duke energy to reuse the same water 
multiple times to generate electricity 
for customers during periods of 
highest demand.

Wind and solar

We have added more than 1,000 MW 

of wind and solar generation capacity 
over the past four years and will 
complete five additional wind farms 
in 2012. except for a limited amount of 
water used for washing photovoltaic 
panels, wind and solar farms do not 
require water for power production. 

Proposed nuclear 

For the proposed lee nuclear Station 
in South Carolina, Duke energy analyzed 
the plant’s potential water needs. 
We looked at available water sources, 
needs of upstream and downstream 
water users, and station and regula-
tory requirements. based on this 
detailed analysis, we determined that 
additional water storage — a drought 
contingency storage pond — would 
be needed. The proposed pond would 
provide cooling water during a prolonged 
drought, while minimizing the impact on 
other regional water users.

 
 
Partnerships

We continue to collaborate with 
government agencies, community 
groups and the private sector to 
improve the management of our 
shared water resources.

X To properly respond to periodic 

drought conditions in the keowee-
Toxaway river basin in South 
Carolina, Duke energy joined 
forces with Seneca light & Water 
and greenville Water to implement 
the keowee-Toxaway Interim low 
Inflow Protocol. This interim drought 
procedure establishes a shared 
responsibility among the main water 
users to protect the limited water 
storage available in lakes Jocassee 
and keowee. 

X The Catawba-Wateree Drought 

Management Advisory group consists 
of large water users/withdrawers 
in the Carolinas, including Duke 
energy and resource agencies, which 
implement the drought management 
procedures set forth in the Catawba-
Wateree river basin low Inflow 
Protocol, when needed. 
X The Catawba-Wateree Water 

Management group (CWWMg) is 
exploring ways to improve water 
consumption trends through a 
survey of demand-management 
best practices across the u.S. The 
CWWMg is using the survey results 
to identify measures that member 
utilities can implement to manage 
water demand in the Catawba-
Wateree river basin.

 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT

X Duke Energy’s headquarters has 

gone platinum 

X Greener vehicles, greener drivers 
X Shutting down wind turbines at night 

to protect bats

X Generating carbon credits in Peru
X Blog: The Nuclear Information Center

VIDEO

Eagle Viewing Day 
2012

I’m Accountable 

Russ Wilkenloh
Manager, Asset recovery 
and recycling

I’m accountable for reducing Duke Energy’s landfill waste by identifying and recovering 
reusable materials. Part of my job includes a fair amount of dumpster diving!

reducing landfill waste is part of Duke Energy’s Sustainability Plan. In 2008, we set a 
challenging four-year goal to increase our percentage of solid waste that’s recycled from 
52 to 62 percent. We exceeded our goal — by establishing aggressive departmental 
targets and initiatives for recycling, and by significantly improving our wood waste reuse 
and recycling efforts.

The results are substantial. In 2011, Duke Energy recycled about 7,000 tons more 
material than we did in 2008. More than 4,700 tons of wood would have ended up in 
local landfills (the weight equivalent of 2,500 Chevy Volts) — that’s about 3,000 tons 
more wood than the company recycled in 2008. 

One way we achieved our wood recycling targets was by pioneering new programs with 
innovative vendors. In the Midwest, for example, one vendor processes thousands of 
tons of discarded wood — utility poles, reels, pallets and packing materials — and 
repurposes much of it as treated wood or mulch. Most of the remainder is shipped to 
a wood shredding facility, where it is processed and sold as biomass fuel. We are one 
of the leading wood recyclers in our industry — currently recycling about 400 tons of 
wood per month, on average. Now, we are ramping up our wood recycling program in the 
Carolinas. We expect to yield at least 1,000 additional tons of repurposed wood in 2012. 

Every Duke Energy employee has an opportunity to recycle and reduce waste. Together 
with departmental and vendor initiatives, we are making substantial progress. Through 
our collective efforts, thousands of tons of repurposed or recycled materials stay out of 
our local landfills every year.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  21

 
ENVIRONMENTAl PERFORMANCE METRICS

2011 Electricity Generated*

2011 ElECTRICITY GENERATED (neT MegAWATT-HOurS) 1

  52.5%  Coal 
  26.1%  Nuclear 
  10.4% 

  9.5%   

 Natural gas/ 
oil
 Conventional 
hydro

  1.9%  Wind/solar

*  Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled (0.4%), consumes 

more energy than it produces. 

Almost 40 percent of the electricity we 
generated in 2011 was from carbon-free 
sources, including nuclear, hydro, wind 
and solar.

Coal

Natural gas/oil

total fossil

Nuclear

Conventional hydro

Wind

solar

total carbon-free

Pumped-storage hydro 2

United states

Latin america

total

MWh 
(thousands)

 84,074 

 13,638 

 97,712 

 41,798 

 1,739 

 3,094 

 43 

 46,675 

 (660)

Percent

58.5%

9.5%

68.0%

29.1%

1.2%

2.2%

<1%

32.5%

-0.5%

MWh 
(thousands)

37 

 3,088 

 3,125 

0 

Percent

0.2%

18.6%

18.8%

0%

 13,476 

81.2%

0 

0 

0%

0%

 13,476 

81.2%

0 

0%

MWh 
(thousands)

 84,111 

 16,726 

 100,837 

 41,798 

 15,215 

 3,094 

 43 

 60,150 

 (660)

Percent

52.5%

10.4%

62.9%

26.1%

9.5%

1.9%

<1%

37.5%

-0.4%

total

 143,726 

100.0%

 16,600 

100.0%

 160,327 

100.0%

1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets. Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
2  Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces. 

2011 Generation Capacity*

2011 GENERATION CAPACITY (MegAWATTS) 3

  40.4%  Coal 
  28.1% 

 Natural gas/
oil

  13.0%  Nuclear
  10.3% 

 Conventional 
hydro

  2.7%  Wind/solar

*  Pumped-storage hydro, which totaled 5.4%, consumes more 

energy than it produces. 

Our diverse generation portfolio helps us 
generate electricity that is affordable, reliable 
and increasingly clean. 

Fuels consumed for U.S. 
electric generation
Compared to 2010, coal consumption 
decreased and natural gas consumption 
increased in 2011, mostly because natural 
gas became a relatively less expensive fuel. 

water withdrawn and consumed
Water withdrawn is the total volume removed 
from a water source, such as a lake or a 
river. Due to once-through cooling systems 
on many of our coal-fired and nuclear 
plants, about 98 percent of this water is 
returned to the source and available for 
other uses. Water consumed is the amount 
of water removed for use and not returned 
to the source.

Coal

Natural gas/oil

total fossil

Nuclear

Conventional hydro

solar

Wind

total carbon-free
Pumped-storage hydro 4
total

United states

Latin america

total

MW

15,932

9,879

25,811

5,173

1,181

64

1,006

7,424

2,140

35,375

Percent

45.0%

27.9%

73.0%

14.6%

3.3%

0.2%

2.8%

21.0%

6.0%

100%

MW

83

1,279

1,362

0

2,915

0

0

2,915

0

4,277

Percent

1.9%

29.9%

31.9%

0.0%

68.1%

0.0%

0.0%

68.1%

0.0%

100%

MW

16,015

11,158

27,173

5,173

4,096

64

1,006

10,339

2,140

39,652

Percent

40.4%

28.1%

68.5%

13.0%

10.3%

0.2%

2.5%

26.1%

5.4%

100%

3  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets. u.S. coal capacity is year-end 2011 total, less Gallagher 
units 1 and 3 (280 MW) and Dan river units 1, 2 and 3 (276 MW), all of which retired in early 2012. u.S. natural gas/oil capacity 
is year-end 2011 total, less reduced ownership position in the Vermillion plant (80 MW) due to a January 2012 transaction. Totals 
may not add up exactly due to rounding. 

4  Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces.

FUElS CONSUMED FOR U.S. ElECTRIC GENERATION 5

Coal (million tons)

Oil (million gallons)

Natural gas (billion cubic feet)

2007

46.8

23.0

33.7

2008

45.0

22.2

26.8

2009

36.1

18.3

50.7

2010

39.6

18.0

64.6

2011

35.8

19.9

96.3

5  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets.

wATER wITHDRAwN AND CONSUMED (bIllIOn gAllOnS)

Withdrawn

Consumed

6  Excludes Duke Energy International and Duke Energy Generation Services.
7  Excludes Duke Energy Generation Services.

2008 6

4,000

60

2009 7

3,800

74

2010

3,900

88

2011

3,700

76

22  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

ENVIRONMENTAl PERFORMANCE METRICS

EMISSIONS FROM GENERATION 8

CO2  emissions (thousand tons) 9
 u.S.
 latin America
total
total CO2 emissions intensity (tons per net MWh) 
U.s. sO2  emissions (tons) 10
U.s. sO2 emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh) 
U.s. NOx emissions (tons) 10
U.s. NOx emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

108,500

105,000

3,100

2,700

111,600

107,700

0.66

0.66

90,800

2, 900

93,700

0.59

97,600

2,300

99,900

0.60

91,100

2,300

93,300

0.58

682,300

427,700

239,800

221,200

200,200

8.9

5.8

3.4

3.0

2.8

130,500

122,700

64,800

71,800

71,100

1.7

1.7

0.9

1.0

1.0

8  Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.
9  CO2 reported from Duke Energy’s u.S. electric generation and Duke Energy International operations, and based on ownership 

share of generating assets.

10  SO2 and NOx reported from Duke Energy’s u.S. electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets.

U.S. SUlFUR DIOxIDE AND NITROGEN OxIDES EMISSIONS (THOuSAnD TOnS) 11

  u.S. sulfur dioxide emissions 

  u.S. nitrogen oxides emissions

  750

  600

  450

  300

  150

Emissions from generation
Emission levels and intensities depend on 
many factors, including generation diversity 
and efficiency, demand for electricity, weather, 
fuel availability and prices, and emissions 
controls deployed. Carbon dioxide (CO2 ), 
sulfur dioxide (SO2 ) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
emissions decreased in 2011 from 2010 due 
to decreased generation (resulting from lower 
electricity demand), decreased coal generation 
and increased natural gas generation. We have 
invested approximately $5 billion over the past 
decade to significantly reduce SO2 and NOx 
emissions from our coal fleet. As a result, we 
have reduced u.S. SO2 emissions by almost 
76 percent and NOx by 52 percent since 2006. 
Our fleet modernization strategy will help us 
further reduce emissions. 

0 

2007 

2008 

2009 

2010 

2011

11  SO2 and NOx reported from Duke Energy’s u.S. electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets.

U.S. TOxIC RElEASE INVENTORY (THOuSAnD POunDS) 12

releases to air

releases to water

releases to land

Off-site transfers

total

2006

75,752

195

2007

59,584

224

2008

39,382

234

2009

24,318

211

2010

23,882

144

14,224

15,593

13,895

11,753

15,077

64

92

118

509

492

90,235

75,492

53,630

36,790

39,595

12  Data pertain to facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and where Duke Energy is the responsible reporting party. Totals may not 

add up exactly due to rounding.

U.S. ON-ROAD AND OFF-ROAD VEHIClE FlEET EMISSIONS AND FUEl CONSUMED 13

Number of vehicles

Fuel consumed (thousand gallons)

Nitrogen oxides (tons)

Volatile organic compounds (tons)

Particulate matter (tons)

Carbon monoxide (tons)

total emissions (tons)

2006  
(baseline)

5,396

7,800

486

73

24

718

1,301

2007

5,426

7,887

497

66

26

629

1,218

2008

5,460

7,569

449

59

24

649

1,181

2009

5,647

7,294

467

56

27

544

1,094

2010

5,637

7,118

414

47

25

497

984

2011

5,692

7,101

372

44

22

463

902

13  This table represents just over 90 percent of our vehicle fleet. Operation and fuel consumption are estimated where individual 
mileage, engine hours or fuel measurements are not available. These estimates are used for emissions calculations where 
necessary. Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 

U.S. Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)
Duke Energy’s TrI releases for 2010 were 
down 56 percent from 2006, primarily due 
to the significant investments we’ve made in 
environmental controls for our power plants. 
however, our TrI releases for 2010 increased 
8 percent over 2009, primarily due to our 
use of more fossil-fueled electric generation 
to meet higher demand for electricity. In 
addition, less coal ash was beneficially used, 
due to decreased demand for construction 
materials. (Data for 2011 will be available 
in August 2012.) 

U.S. on-road and off-road vehicle 
fleet emissions and fuel consumed
We have a goal to reduce nitrogen oxides, 
volatile organic compounds, particulate 
matter and carbon monoxide emissions 
from our on-road and off-road vehicle fleet 
by 35 percent by 2012 compared to 2006. 
From 2006 to 2011, emissions have been 
reduced by almost 31 percent, and we are 
on track to meet our goal.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  23

 
 
ENVIRONMENTAl PERFORMANCE METRICS

ACCElERATED MAIN REPlACEMENT PROGRAM

reduction in leaks repaired 
(since 2007)

2007

Baseline year

2008

6%

2009

29%

2010

14%

2011

16%

Goal

20% by 
2012

wASTE

U.s. solid waste 14 
 total generated (tons) 
 Percent recycled
Hazardous waste generated (tons) 15
Low-level radioactive waste 
(Class B and C) generated (cubic feet)

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

— 
—

—

1,420

40,162 
52%

—

1,303

39,651 
55%

438

739

38,651 
63%

125

658

43,586 
64%

166
903 16  
(42% 
less than 
baseline)

14  All data exclude Duke Energy Generation Services, Duke Energy International and large, one-time projects. Weights are estimated 

based on volumes where necessary. Data not available for 2007.

15  Companywide data not available for 2007 or 2008.
16  This increase is due to cyclic, routine maintenance activities in 2011.

U.S. ElECTRICITY CONSUMED

Electricity consumption: 13 of 
our largest commercial buildings 
(megawatt-hours)

REPORTABlE OIl SPIllS 17

2005-2007  
average 
(baseline)

2006-2008 
average

2007-2009 
average

2008-2010 
average

2009-2011 
average

64,836

62,607

60,486

58,783

56,461  
(13% 
less than 
baseline)

spills

Gallons

2007

79

28,900

2008

66

6,600

2009

92

4,700

2010

56

7,400

2011

59

2,300

17  Data for 2007 and 2008 include u.S. spills only. Duke Energy International spill data are included for later years. Data for 2007 and 

2008 also exclude Duke Energy Generation Services.

ENVIRONMENTAl REGUlATORY CITATIONS 18

Citations

2007

12

2008

16

2009

20

2010

19

2011

12

Fines/penalties (dollars)

$29,265,500

$141,657

$2,805,525

$15,982

$20,045

18  Includes international and u.S. federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties.

Accelerated Main 
Replacement Program
In 2000, the Accelerated Main replacement 
Program (AMrP) was launched on Duke 
Energy’s natural gas distribution system in 
Ohio and kentucky to prevent leaks requiring 
repair and to improve safety, performance 
and reliability. The program accelerates 
replacement of approximately 1,400 miles 
of cast iron and bare steel pipe, some in 
service since 1873. The AMrP is complete in 
kentucky and more than 80 percent complete 
in Ohio. We are on track to meet our target of 
reducing repaired leaks by 20 percent by 2012 
compared to 2007. reducing leaks decreases 
the release of natural gas, which is mostly 
methane, a greenhouse gas 
20 times more potent than CO2.

 approximately 

waste
We have a goal to increase the percentage 
of u.S. solid waste that is recycled from 
52 percent in 2008 to 62 percent by 2012. 
Our nuclear plants also have a goal to reduce 
by 25 percent the amount of low-level 
radioactive waste 
generate by 2012, compared to the 2002 
through 2006 average of 1,552 cubic feet. 
In 2011, we exceeded both of these goals.

 (Class B and C) they 

U.S. electricity consumed
We have a goal to reduce electricity consump-
tion at 13 of our largest commercial buildings 
by 10 percent by 2012, compared to the 
2005 through 2007 average. In 2011, we 
exceeded this goal.

Reportable oil spills
Oil spills include releases of lubricating oil from 
generating stations, leaks from transformers, or 
damage caused by weather or by third parties 
(typically due to auto accidents).

Environmental regulatory citations
No fines were associated with 10 of the 
12 citations in 2011. The 2007 total fines/
penalties figure includes proposed fines of 
approximately uS$29 million assessed by 
the Brazil State Environmental Agency of 
Parana (IAP) and approximately uS$250,000 
by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and 
renewable Natural resources (IBAMA) for 
alleged violations related to reforestation. 
We continue to contest these violations.

24  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

 
 
 
 
 
3

Challenges

 X Improve employee and 

contractor safety even more

 X Build a culture of health 

to improve the well-being 
of our employees 

 X Improve diversity and 
effectively manage a 
multigenerational workforce

Opportunities

 X Maintain our strong reputation 

as a preferred employer

 X Continue to partner with 
colleges and universities 
to build a pipeline of talent

 X Selectively hire top talent 
and effectively transfer 
knowledge and skills as 
baby boomers retire

2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights

 X For the first time 

since 2008, had zero 
employee or contractor 
work-related fatalities

 X Achieved the best employee 
safety Total Incident Case 
Rate in company history, 
a 43 percent decrease 
from 2006

 X Maintained a high level of 

management and employee 
engagement, as measured 
by favorable scores on 
survey questions

Quality Workforce

Safety performance 
reaches record levels

Our ongoing efforts to strengthen and 
sustain our safety culture are paying 
off. In 2011, we had our best year 
ever from a safety standpoint. For the 
first time since 2008, we had zero 
employee or contractor work-related 
fatalities. 

We can attribute this improvement 
to many factors, including a heightened 
focus on our safety culture among 
contractors in 2011. We more actively 
engaged our contracted companies, 
their managers and workers in monthly 
safety forums, ongoing dialogue, 
alignment exercises and more.

Our 2011 employee Total Incident 

 of 0.86 set a new 

Case rate (TICr) 
company record as well, and nearly 
achieved our aggressive target of 0.84. 
In 2011, we experienced 15 fewer 
recordable incidents than in 2010. 
Our employee TICr has improved 
43 percent since 2006.

Although we are satisfied with our 
safety improvement through the years, 
we cannot and will not lower our 
expectation for the future — which is 
to achieve top-decile TICr performance 
among our industry peers. Company 
leaders continue to develop safety 
improvement plans in their organizations. 
These plans increase safety awareness, 
and reduce employee and contractor 
exposure to workplace hazards. Fifty-five 
safety improvement plans were imple-
mented companywide in 2011.
Additionally, in 2012 we are 
stepping up our efforts to prevent 
serious injuries and fatalities. We are 
part of a Mercer/OrC group 

 of 

SAFETY AT DUKE ENERGY

Duke Energy’s Power Delivery crews are on the 
front lines of strengthening our safety culture.

u.S. and multinational companies — 
including ge, Alcoa, exxon, kimberly-
Clark and others — that is focused 
on occupational safety and health. 
Together, we are working to develop 
a methodology to eliminate or reduce 
serious injuries and fatalities in 
the workplace.

Creating a culture of health

At Duke energy, we recognize that the 
health and well-being of our employees 
are essential to the company’s success. 
Our goal is to create an environment 
that promotes and supports personal 
accountability, and improves the health, 
safety and productivity of our workforce. 
live Well, Duke energy’s broad range 
of health coverage, wellness and clinical 
support programs, is the way we deliver 
on that promise. Just as Duke energy 

Employee and contractor work-related fatalities
Employee total incident Case rate (tiCr) 1
Employee Lost Workday Case rate (LWCr) 2
Contractor total incident Case rate (tiCr) 1
Contractor Lost Workday Case rate (LWCr) 2

2007

2

1.25

0.26

—

—

2008

0

1.15

0.28

—

—

2009

3

1.00

0.23
1.21 3
—

2010

5

0.90

0.23

1.07

—

2011

0

0.86

0.32

1.20
0.28 3

1  Number of recordable incidents per 100 workers (based on OShA criteria). Top decile in 2010 for employee TICr was 0.72 

(based on the latest data available from the Edison Electric Institute). 

2  Number of lost workday cases per 100 workers.
3  First year compiled and reported.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  25

 
I’m Accountable 

Jennifer Weber
Group Executive, human resources and Corporate relations

Employee engagement is critical to our 
success as a company. In this Q&A, Jennifer 
Weber discusses Duke Energy’s focus on 
individual accountability as key to building 
and sustaining a high-performance culture. 

What is Duke Energy doing to manage 
talent for peak performance?  Duke Energy 
has always been focused on performance and 
results. however, in 2010 we enhanced our 
performance management process to help 
managers and employees be more successful. 
Critical components of this new approach:

 X Train all managers on the enhanced process 
and our philosophy of a high-performance 
culture and employee engagement. 

 X Provide effective coaching and feedback 

to all employees.

 X Develop clear goals that are aligned 

with company goals, to help employees 
understand how they impact company 
results.

 X link merit and incentive opportunities to 

drive individual accountability.

 X Provide more effective online tools to help 
managers set goals and track performance.

After one year, the new performance 
management process paid off, as evidenced by 
the 2011 Employee Opinion Survey. “rewarding 
performance” scores are the highest they’ve 
been since 2006. ratings on manager 
effectiveness rose dramatically and are 
7 percentage points above the national norm. 

How does the company empower employees 
to take ownership for managing their 
careers?  In several ways. As part of 
the performance management process, 
managers have periodic career discussions 
with employees, creating a collaborative 
goal-setting environment. 

We believe the key drivers for these improved 
scores are in-depth performance discussions 
between employees and their managers, 
and performance-based compensation. 
Our managers also quickly embraced the 
new process, set the expectations, and 
better understood their role in helping 
employees develop their skills and perform 
to their potential.

What do you mean by employee engage-
ment, and why does it matter?  We define 
employee engagement as the extent to which 
employees are willing to put forth discretionary 
effort to help the company succeed. Engaged 
employees care about their work and the 
performance of the company, and they under-
stand how their efforts impact results. 

research shows that highly engaged 
employees drive business success because 
they take responsibility for the quality of work, 
controlling costs, customer satisfaction and 
innovative ideas. Employee engagement is a 
critical outcome of our focus on performance 
and manager effectiveness.

Employees have an opportunity to create 
individual career development plans — 
a road map of their career aspirations 
and how they can achieve them. And they 
are encouraged to maintain live Profiles 
(online resumes) in our talent management 
system. These profiles are used to search 
for employees with specific qualifications 
for special assignments, projects or key 
company positions. 

Employees also have access to self-serve 
resources on our employee Portal — including 
company-sponsored training, competency 
self-assessment and resources for career 
development. however, nothing is more 
important than initiating career development 
discussions with managers and mentors. 

To learn how Duke Energy continues to 
build on these positive results, see the 
continuation of Jennifer Weber’s Q&A 
in the Quality Workforce section of our 
Sustainability Report online. 

26  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

has aggressively pursued safety as a 
top priority, we’re now putting that same 
level of energy into building a culture 
of health.

According to unitedHealthcare 
(uHC), our medical plan administrator, 
many medical claims for Duke energy 
employees are related to preventable 
conditions. Cardiovascular conditions, 
diabetes, and joint and back problems 
are among the top health conditions 
currently affecting our employees. uHC 
is providing educational health and 
disease management coaching, which is 
available to all employees as part of the 
live Well program.
Free biometric 

 health screenings 

are provided at many work locations. 
employees who participate receive live 
Well program incentives that can reduce 
the cost of their medical coverage. 
(Those who can’t participate on site 
can earn the same incentives by visiting 
their doctors for those screenings.) 
employees can earn additional 
incentives by getting preventive 
health services, completing online 
health assessments, attending on-site 
educational sessions and participating 
in health coaching.

Our focus on wellness benefits 
employees’ health and the bottom 
line — for both employees and the 
company. Duke energy’s medical 
plan is self-insured, which means that 
Duke energy and employees share the 
responsibility for paying all medical 
costs. When we manage those costs 
effectively, both employees and Duke 
energy reap the savings. 

Controlling costs and staying healthy 

can start with something as simple 
as stretching. 

Our Power Delivery workforce has 
begun to make fitness a part of every 
workday, with a morning stretching 
program. This simple but innovative 
best practice drew the attention of 
The Wall Street Journal 
, which 
called it “an inventive way to keep its 
experienced, maturing line workers in 
tip-top physical condition for the job.”
Whether it’s stretching, walking, 
working out or getting a yearly physical, 
Duke energy employees are finding 
ways to stay healthy — for their own 
benefit and the company’s. 

Building a pipeline of 
energy workers

Four generations in Duke Energy’s 
U.S. workforce

Training the next generation of energy 
workers — at every level — is essential. 
The united States is facing what the 
national Commission on energy Policy 
calls “a critical shortage of trained 
professionals to maintain the existing 
electric power system and design, 
build and operate the future electric 
power system.” 

At Duke energy, more than 

60 percent of our employees are “baby 
boomers” — born between 1946 and 
1964. because of this, we have a large 
population of employees approaching 
retirement age. In fact, more than half 
of our employees will be eligible to retire 
in five years, and about two-thirds in 
10 years. (eligible to retire is defined 
as 55 years of age or older, with at 
least five years of service.) 

To address this potential loss of 
talent, we’re working on several fronts 
to make sure we have a pipeline 
of energy workers ready to tackle 
tomorrow’s challenges.

Partners in education

One strategy is to partner with 
line-worker academies and nuclear 
operator programs at community 
and technical colleges in our service 
areas. We provide programmatic 

 0.5%  Traditionalists (born before 1946) 
   61.2%  Baby boomers (born 1946-1964) 
   30.1%  Generation X (born 1965-1981)
  8.2%    Millennials (born after 1981)

support through funding, equipment, 
instructors, curriculum development, 
scholarships and employment 
opportunities for graduates.

We also partner with universities 
to develop the next generation of energy 
expertise. In 2011, The Duke energy 
Foundation announced a $4.5 million 
gift to support unC Charlotte’s energy 
Production and Infrastructure Center 
(ePIC), which is focused on training new 
engineers and conducting research in 
energy technologies.

The center will be an educational 

resource for engineering students 
from many universities and colleges, 
and a national laboratory for cutting-
edge technologies that will shape the 
energy industry.

Ongoing training in facilities such as this control room simulator at McGuire Nuclear Station is vital to 
safe and reliable operations.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  27

 
 
wORKFORCE PERFORMANCE METRICS

The gift, to be made over a five-year 

wORKFORCE STATISTICS

period, was announced along with a 
$4.3 million gift from Siemens. The 
combined support will help fund:

 X A student fellows program for 

incoming freshmen with an interest 
in energy engineering 

 X A smart grid research laboratory 
 X A faculty position for a distinguished 
professor with proven research in 
power engineering systems to serve 
as the center’s inaugural director.

Creating career pathways

The Center for energy Workforce 
Development (CeWD), with funding 
from the bill and Melinda gates 
Foundation, is piloting the get Into 
energy Career Pathways program in 
nine states, including four in our service 
area: north Carolina, South Carolina, 
Indiana and Ohio. The CeWD is 
working through state energy Workforce 
Consortia — partnerships of energy 
companies, educational institutions, 
and state labor departments and 
workforce agencies. 

The intent of the program is to 
hire and train 500 low-income young 
adults for energy-related careers by 
2013. Duke energy is supporting this 
program by offering employment, 
training and opportunities for career 
advancement to selected participants 
in our service areas.

Thanks to the planning Duke energy 
is doing today, our pipeline of promising 
talent will position us well to meet the 
workforce needs of the future.

 12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09

12/31/10

12/31/11

 18,117 

Full- and part-time employees
 united States
 International
Collective bargaining unit/union members as percent of workforce
  u.S. (members of a collective bargaining unit)
  International (dues-paying members of a union)

 17,045 

 1,072 

30.2%

25.5%

 18,548 

 17,429 

 1,119 

25.2%

27.4%

 18,683 

 17,581 

 1,102 

 18,439 

 17,293 

 1,146 

 18,249 

 17,067 

 1,182 

24.7%

26.2%

24.6%

25.4%

24.3%

24.9%

U.S. wORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS 1

 12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09

12/31/10

12/31/11

0.9%

0.9%

0.8%

0.8%

11.3%

11.2%

86.7%

86.6%

Ethnic diversity as percent of workforce
 White
 Black/African-American
 hispanic/latino
 Asian
 American Indian/Alaska Nation
  Native hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 
(new category for 2010)
 Not specified
Females/minorities as percent of workforce/management
 Females as percent of workforce
 Females as percent of management 
 Minorities as percent of workforce
 Minorities as percent of management
1  Ethnic diversity and gender data are not captured for Duke Energy International employees.

22.6%

22.6%

13.3%

13.3%

15.5%

17.2%

0.2%

8.0%

0.3%

0.3%

0.1%

7.9%

—

—

86.9%

11.0%

0.9%

0.9%

0.3%

—

0.0%

22.6%

16.3%

13.1%

7.6%

86.4%

11.2%

1.1%

1.0%

0.3%

0.0%

0.0%

22.9%

17.2%

13.6%

7.6%

86.2%

11.2%

1.2%

1.0%

0.3%

0.0%

0.0%

22.9%

17.7%

13.8%

7.9%

U.S. EMPlOYEE TURNOVER SUMMARY

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

reason
 Severance package volunteers
 resignations
 retirements
  Employees who were notified they did not have 
a position in the company and elected to leave 
with a severance package 2
 Dismissals
  Other attrition (e.g., deceased, disability) 3 
total turnover

 405 

 244 

 218 

 114 

 46 

28

 1,055 

 210 

 304 

 190 

 14 

 160 

 205 

 686 

 178 

 197 

 225 

 286 

 163 

 18 

 12 

 27 

 21 

 96 

41

 859 

 127 

78

 596 

 144 

106

 1,338 

 147 

 91 

 933 

 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT

total U.s. employees

 17,045 

 17,429 

 17,581 

 17,293 

 17,067 

turnover as a percent of workforce

6.2%

4.9%

3.4%

7.7%

5.5%

X Employee engagement improves 
X Employees recognized with 
James B. Duke awards 

VIDEO

Working at 
Duke Energy

Percentage of employees eligible to retire 
in 5 years 4
Percentage of employees eligible to retire 
in 10 years 4
2   Employees whose jobs were affected by restructuring were offered an option to transfer into a “transition pool” for a six-month 

66.6%

52.3%

50.9%

50.9%

66.7%

67.9%

—

—

—

—

period, during which they could look for other employment opportunities within Duke Energy.
In 2009 and 2010, this attrition was included in the resignations category.

3 
4  Eligible to retire is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least 5 years of service.

28  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

4

Challenges

 X Encourage economic devel-
opment in the continuing 
sluggish economy

 X Help the communities we 
serve rebound from the 
recession, as temporary 
federal aid expires 

Opportunities

 X Continue to help attract 

capital investment and new 
jobs to our service territories

 X Use our community 

programs to strengthen 
the regions we serve

 X Help lead innovative public/
private partnerships that 
provide significant benefits to 
our customers and community 

2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights

 X Provided competitively priced, 
reliable electricity in each of 
our five states

 X Helped attract nearly $4 billion 

in capital investment and 
13,635 new jobs 

 X Contributed more than 

$31 million to our communities 
(includes contributions from 
The Duke Energy Foundation 
and the company, along 
with employee and retiree 
donations and the value of 
volunteer hours)

 X Provided more than 200,000 
hours of volunteer time from 
our employees and retirees, 
and their friends and families

Strong Communities

the strengths and potential of each 
region we serve, and matches those to 
customer needs. each of our service 
areas offers unique opportunities in 
terms of incentives, workforce and 
transportation. We help companies 
match their needs with those assets 
and establish business relationships 
in our communities. 

Overall, Duke energy’s economic 
development program helped attract 
nearly $4 billion in capital investments 
in 2011, which will bring 13,635 new 
jobs to our service areas — in the midst 
of a “jobless recovery.” When industries 
choose to locate within Duke energy’s 
service territory, they can be confident 
their utility will be a partner in achieving 
bottom-line success.

To learn how Duke Energy is 
approaching economic development 
in each of our service areas, read the 
rest of this article in the Strong 
Communities section of our online 
Sustainability Report. 

Investing in our communities

Duke energy provides charitable 
giving to help meet immediate needs, 
and to strengthen our communities 
for the future.

In 2011, charitable giving from The 
Duke energy Foundation, combined with 
company donations, employee and retiree 
gifts and the value of volunteer hours, 
totaled over $31 million — surpassing 
our 2010 total by more than $2 million. 

Economic development — 
more important than ever

economic development is more crucial to 
recovery than at any other time since the 
recession began in 2007. Most of the 
temporary federal aid to states through 
the recovery Act expired at the end of 
fiscal year 2011 — further challenging 
the states’ ability to bridge the gap 
between revenue and cost of services. 
The states of Ohio, kentucky and 
north Carolina have already projected 
budget shortfalls for fiscal year 2013, 
which begins July 1, 2012. One of 
the most sustainable ways to begin 
reversing the downturn is to boost 
economic activity.

Doing our part

Duke energy takes seriously our 
responsibility to promote economic 
development in the communities where 
we do business. Access to low-cost, 
reliable power is a critical factor in a 
company’s decision about where to 
locate its facilities. As a top-performing 
utility, Duke energy is in a key position 
to meet companies’ energy needs and 
attract job-creating industry and capital 
investment to our service territories.
but corporate clients need more 
than power. They need readily available 
building sites, transportation infrastruc-
ture, access to state and local incentives, 
flexible workforce training programs, and 
proximity to a community of customers 
and business partners. That’s what Duke 
energy delivers through our award-
winning economic development program.
In 2011, Site Selection magazine 

named Duke energy to its Top 10 
utilities in Site Selection for north 
America for the 13th consecutive year. 
Whether a company is looking for a new 
site for manufacturing, logistics, distri-
bution or headquarters, our economic 
development team does the legwork for 
them. We identify sites, qualify them 
and then promote them to companies 
that are considering relocation or expan-
sion in our service areas.

Regional approach

rather than using a one-size-fits-all 

approach, Duke energy’s economic 
development program focuses on 

hands-on involvement in local community 
projects is the focus of Duke Energy’s annual 
Global Service Event.

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  29

 
2011 CHARITABlE GIVING

The Duke Energy Foundation

$16.5 million

Other company cash contributions 
 gifts and services
and in-kind. 

Cash contributions from employees 
and retirees

Value of employees’, retirees’ and 
other volunteers’ time

total charitable giving

$  4.7 million

$  5.6 million

$  4.4 million

$31.2 million

We review Foundation funding 

requests at the regional level, and make 
decisions based on the needs of the 
community and alignment with our four 
key focus areas: 
 X Community vitality — 66 percent 

($7.9 million) 

 X education — 20 percent ($2.4 million)
 X environment and energy efficiency — 

8 percent ($1 million)

 X economic development — 6 percent 

($0.7 million).

In 2011, education became the 
Foundation’s fourth focus area. Always 
a funding priority, education was 
previously combined with economic 
development. Making education its own 
category — and earmarking dollars for 
it — signifies the value we place on 
preparing the workforce of tomorrow. 

In addition to funding by focus area, 

the Foundation gave $3.7 million in 
matching gifts and grants for employee 
and retiree volunteer efforts. Volunteer 

grants are for “sweat equity” projects 
completed by employees, while board 
leadership grants are designed for 
employees and retirees who serve on 
the boards of directors of qualifying 
organizations. 

The Foundation also contributed 

$810,000 to low-income energy 
assistance programs in the Carolinas 
(Share the Warmth, Cooling 
Assistance and Fan relief). The 
company contributed $550,000 to 
similar programs in Indiana (Helping 
Hand), kentucky (WinterCare) and 
Ohio (HeatShare). Duke energy also 
contributed over $300,000 to those 
programs as part of our paperless billing 
promotion. (Read more about paperless 
billing in the Innovative Products and 
Services section online. 

 )

Customer and employee contribu-
tions to energy assistance programs in 
all of our states totaled over $840,000. 
besides charitable giving of over 

$31 million in 2011, Duke energy 
invested another $5.4 million to 
support regulatory agreements and 
other business initiatives in the 
communities we serve. 

Duke energy Carolinas continued 

to share its bulk power marketing 
(bPM) profits in 2011 with support 
for education (over $3.9 million) 
and low-income energy assistance 
($500,000). bPM profits come from 

off-system sales of power on the 
open market.

Also in the Carolinas, we invested 
more than $1 million to enhance aquatic 
habitat and fish populations, and to 
improve water management, as part of 
the Catawba-Wateree Comprehensive 
relicensing Agreement. 

A force for good: Volunteers 
following their hearts

Duke energy has a long tradition of 
giving back to the communities we 
serve. We can be a powerful force for 
change when employees and retirees 
feel passionate about the causes they 
support. That’s why we empower our 
volunteers to determine where the needs 
in their communities are greatest — and 
how to dedicate their time.

The groups and projects that benefit 
from our volunteer efforts are as diverse as 
our employee base. They include every-
thing from Special Olympics to community 
clean-up projects, and from Habitat for 
Humanity to animal rescue centers.

Our online database, Volunteers in 
Action, allows employees to search and 
sign up for volunteer opportunities in 
their area, and add new projects that 
align with their own interests. 

We estimate that in 2011, approxi-
mately 8,300 employees, retirees and 
their friends and families volunteered 

30  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

 
I’m Accountable 

Richard “Stick” Williams
Senior Vice President, Environmental health and Safety, and 
President, The Duke Energy Foundation

Education is one of the pillars of a strong community. In the following 
Q&A, Stick Williams discusses Project L.I.F.T., an innovative program 
he co-chairs. Created to dramatically improve Charlotte’s lowest-
performing schools, Project L.I.F.T. may prove to be a national model for 
public/private partnerships. 

What is Project L.i.F.t., and how did you get involved?  l.I.F.T. 
stands for leadership and Investment for Transformation. It’s aimed at 
eliminating the achievement gap separating the 7,500 students in the 
West Charlotte corridor from those in other parts of Mecklenburg County.

West Charlotte high School was once a model of integration. But over 
the past couple of decades, academic achievement has plummeted, 
and parental involvement has waned. The school’s graduation rate is 
currently 51 percent; that’s the lowest in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
Schools (CMS) system. 

But academic problems don’t begin in high school. They often begin at 
the elementary- and middle-school levels, and we need to intervene 
there as well.

Several of us in the philanthropic community — both corporate and 
private foundations — recognized the need to help our highest poverty 
schools. But we were spurred to action when educator and social activist 
Geoffrey Canada came to Charlotte to speak about the harlem Children’s 
Zone. he’s had remarkable success in turning around low-performing 
schools. We began to talk about how we might achieve similar results. 

How are you going about it?  The day we publicly announced this effort 
— on Jan. 31, 2011 — we already had $40 million in commitments from 
private and business foundations. Our fundraising goal is $55 million, so 
we had a solid head start.

But it takes more than dollars and good intentions. We needed to connect 
with those closest to the challenges facing West Charlotte and its feeder 
schools. In community forums, we asked parents and local leaders about 
their needs and ideas. We think our commitment to inclusion — from the 
outset — sets us apart from other efforts.

To read more about Project L.I.F.T. and Richard “Stick” Williams’ 
personal commitment to the project, see the continuation of his Q&A in 
the Strong Communities section of our Sustainability Report online.

more than 205,000 hours to 
668 service projects. 

While the efforts to give back 
are year-round, Duke energy shines 
a spotlight on volunteering in May 
and June with our annual global 
Service event (gSe). In 2011 — the 
gSe’s 14th year — we estimate that 
260 nonprofit groups benefitted from 
the approximately 2,700 employee, 
retiree, friend and family volunteers 
who worked about 14,000 hours to 
improve their communities.

Duke energy’s not-so-secret 

weapon in the fight to strengthen our 
communities is our mighty retiree 
force. They “come out of retirement,” 
so to speak, when they see needs in 
their communities. even in sluggish 
economic times, they have continued to 
give time and money to those in need. 
retiree contributions to the united Way 
increased by 41 percent, from $50,925 
in 2010 to $71,575 in 2011. 

Our employees and retirees remain 

an unstoppable force — for good — 
in the communities throughout our 
service areas.

E3 program helps customers 
become leaner and greener

leaner and greener: it’s not an ad 
for the latest fad diet, but it does 
describe a program that helps small- to 

medium-sized manufacturers trim waste 
and energy — while toning their produc-
tion processes for a better bottom line. 

The economy, energy & environment 
 program is a collaborative 

(e3) 
federal, state and local initiative that 
provides manufacturers with custom-
ized, hands-on technical assessments 
of their production processes. And 
it follows up with recommendations 
for streamlining processes; reducing 
the use of water, waste and energy; 
increasing productivity; driving innova-
tion; and increasing profitability. 

As an e3 partner, Duke energy 
has helped shape programs in north 
Carolina, South Carolina and Ohio, and 
performs many of the energy assess-
ments for our manufacturing customers. 
We’ve also shared this program with 
government agencies and manufac-
turers in brazil as a part of the global 
Sustainable electricity Partnership’s 
(gSeP) 
 technology transfer initia-
tive — in partnership with the u.S. 
environmental Protection Agency and 
Department of energy. (For more on the 
GSEP, see “Renewable power to reach 
remote villages” article in the Strong 
Communities section online. 

 )

State and local organizations that 
support manufacturing and workforce 
development serve as the regional e3 
program leaders. They are responsible 
for tracking and reporting the program’s 

 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT

 X The 2012 DNC: All eyes on Charlotte
 X N.C. Big Sweep turns 25 
 X Copper thefts heighten focus on 

public safety

 X renewable power to reach 

remote villages

 X Video: Sharing the Warmth with 

Customers

 X Video: Students Plant Trees to Offset 

Carbon

 X Video: helping to Feed the hungry

VIDEO

A Century of 
Service to Indiana

economic and environmental impacts. 
Highlights to date include: 
 X The South Carolina e3 program 
saved one of our customers 
approximately $200,000 in one year 
through a waste reduction initiative.

 X Another Duke energy customer 
in Ohio saved $60,000 due to 
productivity improvements and more 
than $150,000 in energy costs.
 X In its first year of assessments, the 

e3: north Carolina 
identified more than $1.3 million 
dollars in savings statewide.

 program 

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  31

 
5

Challenges

 X Maintain strong financial 

performance despite a sluggish 
economy

 X Achieve timely and constructive 

regulatory recovery of our 
investments

Opportunities

 X Maintain strong corporate 

governance ratings

 X Continue to collaborate 
with suppliers and other 
electric utilities to improve 
environmental performance

2011 and Early 2012 
Highlights

 X Exceeded 2010 results and our 
own expectations for adjusted 
diluted earnings per share

 X Increased the quarterly 
dividend from 24.5 to 
25 cents per share in 2011

 X Outperformed the 

Philadelphia Utility Index 
in total shareholder return 
in 2011 and over the 
past three years 

Governance and Transparency

Diverse businesses support 
strong financial results

In 2011, the company grew adjusted 
diluted earnings per share — ending the 
year at $1.46, three cents higher than 
2010 results.

Our diverse portfolio of businesses 

helped drive those strong financial 
results. For the year, earnings on 
investments in major construction 
projects, favorable results from our 
Midwest natural gas power plants 
and strong performance from our 
International business helped offset 
lower electricity sales, significant storm 
restoration costs, and stiff competition 
for customers in Ohio.

As a publicly owned company, one 
of our sustainability goals is to deliver 
competitive returns for our investors. 
We increased our quarterly dividend 
by about 2 percent in 2011, the 85th 
consecutive year Duke energy has paid 
a quarterly dividend on its common 
stock. Sustaining and growing the 
dividend is central to our shareholder 
value proposition.

Our total shareholder return — the 

change in stock price plus dividends 
— was 30.3 percent for 2011. This 
exceeded the 19.3 percent return of 
the Philadelphia utility Index (20 u.S. 
utilities) and the 2.1 percent return of 
the S&P 500. We have significantly 
exceeded both of those indices over 
the past three- and five-year periods.
The strength of our balance sheet 
supports our ability to grow earnings 
and increase the dividend. During 2011, 
we continued to take advantage of low 
interest rates and issued $2.5 billion of 

fixed-rate debt at a weighted-average 
rate of 3.3 percent. Our investment-
grade credit ratings leave us well 
positioned for 2012 and beyond.

In 2011, we spent approximately 
$4.5 billion of capital, and we expect 
that to be fairly consistent in 2012. 
We continue to hold discretionary 
capital, which gives us future flexibility 
to pursue projects that meet our 
growth criteria. 

Duke energy remains positioned 
to achieve long-term annual growth 
in adjusted diluted earnings per 
share of 4 to 6 percent, from a 2009 
base. This anticipated growth rate is 
supported by:

 X Investments in our regulated 

generation fleet and power grid

 X Increased wholesale sales
 X Modest growth in demand 

for electricity (normalized for 
weather differences)

 X Investments in our renewables and 

International businesses.

Supply chain sustainability 
relies on collaboration

Duke energy’s approach to supply 
chain management is grounded in 
collaboration — both with our suppliers 
and with other electric utilities that 
share our commitment to sustainability. 

Supplier partnerships

To support our u.S. operations, we 

have more than 10,000 suppliers of 
non-fuel materials and services, with 
about 2 percent of them accounting 
for 80 percent of our spending. In 

FINANCIAl HIGHlIGHTS (IN MILLIONS ExCEPT FOR PER-SHARE DATA) 1

total operating revenues

Net income attributable to Duke Energy Corporation

reported diluted earnings per share

adjusted diluted earnings per share

Dividends per share

total assets

Long-term debt including capital leases and variable interest 
entities, less current maturities 

2009

$12,731

$1,075

$0.83

$1.22

$0.94

2010

$14,272

$1,320

$1.00

$1.43

$0.97

2011

$14,529

$1,706

$1.28

$1.46

$0.99

$57,040

$59,090

$62,526

$16,113

$17,935

$18,679

1  See the 2011 Duke Energy Annual report/Form 10-k for detailed notes and explanations of figures above.

32  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

Governance and Transparency

recent years, we have spent over 
$5 billion annually on these materials 
and services, mostly from domestic 
sources. This includes spending on 
major projects to modernize our fleet, 
reduce air emissions and maintain 
system reliability. 

About half of our spending is on 
materials — the other half on services. 
Many of Duke energy’s large suppliers 
are well-established companies that 
share our commitment to sustainability. 
Several of them have been recognized 
by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
And when we seek bids for large 
contracts, we ask potential suppliers 
about their sustainability performance 
and how they might help us reach our 
environmental goals.

We also encourage our suppliers to 
conduct business with us electronically. 
Currently, about 50 percent of our 
supply chain transactions are processed 
electronically, saving paper, time and 
costs as a result. 

Improving the materials delivery 
process has also reduced costs and 
environmental impacts. by partnering 
with a third-party logistics provider, 
efforts to optimize shipping and delivery 
schedules have reduced the number of 
miles traveled, while maintaining service 
levels. This has saved approximately 
200,000 transportation miles and 
reduced carbon emissions by about 
1 million tons for each of the last two 
years. In addition, we work with our 
suppliers to consolidate shipments 
to our power plants, further reducing 
miles traveled.

Electric utility collaboration

Similar to other electric utilities, 

more than three-fourths of our 
non-fuel spending is for materials 
and services that are unique to our 
industry. examples include wire 
and cable, poles, transformers, 
turbines and right-of-way clearing. 
given that we purchase many of the 
same materials and services, we 
believe it is more efficient for the 
industry to work together through 
the electric utility Industry Sustainable 
Supply Chain Alliance 
individual companies. 

 than as 

I’m Accountable 

Ana Amélia de Conti Gomes
General Manager, Institutional 
Affairs, latin America

I’m accountable for engaging Duke Energy International (DEI) Brazil’s stakeholders — 
including those who live and work around our nine power plants and reservoirs. 

In 2010, we began identifying groups of stakeholders who are affected by our business. 
Then we started talking to them about our respective needs and concerns — opening 
new channels of communication and understanding. By engaging with community 
leaders, government officials, environmental agencies and others, we have discovered 
new and better ways to address conflicting goals and interests. 

One example is our work in Avaré, a tourist hotspot that borders one of our reservoirs. 
Duke Energy has certain responsibilities, in cooperation with government authorities, 
to protect the reservoir margins classified as preservation areas. The government 
restricts new construction along the 3,100 miles of borders around our reservoirs; 
however, Avaré’s community leaders had somewhat inconsistent objectives. Business 
was booming, and the waterfront areas were prime locations for expansion by 
local developers. 

using our new model of engagement, we met with community leaders and local media 
to explain our environmental obligations. We followed up with a media campaign and 
community events, including an environmental-themed marathon, to educate the 
public on preservation issues. We also partnered with the local fire department and 
town officials to promote safe recreational use of the reservoir. Consequently, we built 
a stronger partnership with the community, and promoted a culture of mutual respect 
and environmental stewardship.

Our stakeholder engagement process in Brazil is being used as the basis for a model 
that has been developed for DEI’s use throughout latin America.

It is amazing what happens when we communicate – and work toward mutually 
beneficial solutions. While we still have work to do in this area, I’m very proud of 
the progress we’ve made. 

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  33

 
The Alliance works with u.S. electric 

utility suppliers and other interested 
parties to improve environmental 
performance and advance sustain-
able business practices. Working 
teams develop best practices for major 
categories of electric utility materials 
and equipment, and for supply chain 
operations.

One Alliance initiative is to reduce 
the energy use of its members’ supply 
chain operations by 10 percent by 
2015, from a 2008 baseline. Through 
projects such as warehouse lighting 
upgrades, electric forklift conversions 
and reduced fuel use in vehicles, 
Duke energy is on track to meet that 
10 percent goal by the end of 2012. 
going forward, we will also be 
working with our suppliers and the 
Alliance to reduce the packaging 
waste associated with the products 
we purchase. This focus on packaging 
is similar to our current practice of 
purchasing reel-less bundles of wire 
and cable, avoiding the use of bulky 
wooden reels with limited life spans.
As a charter member of the 
Alliance, we will continue to take a 
leadership role in advancing its goals 
and objectives.

Participating in the 
political process

because decisions by federal, state 
and local governments — what we 
call “stroke of the pen” risks — can 
have huge impacts on our business, 
it is important for us to represent 
the concerns of our customers, 
shareholders and other stakeholders 
in the public arena. 

 wEB ExClUSIVE CONTENT

 X Overseas profits could jump-start 

economy 

 X Shedding a light on energy issues 
 X Subcontractors boost diverse 

supplier results 

 X rebuilding stakeholder trust in Indiana
 X Engaging stakeholders
 X Partnerships and memberships

GOVERNANCE RATINGS

We regularly benchmark our governance practices. We also currently use the 
grId (governance risk Indicators) Profile provided by ISS, a top advisory 
service, to gauge the strength of our corporate governance practices. 

iss — Grid Profile

Board Structure

Compensation

Shareholder rights

Audit

2010

low Concern

low Concern

low Concern

low Concern

2011 1
Low Concern

Low Concern

medium Concern

Low Concern

scale

low 2,  Medium, high 
Concern

1  As of March 4, 2012. Published with permission of ISS.
2  reflects best rating.

Duke energy participates in the 
political process by providing input 
on numerous proposed bills and 
amendments. Our lobbyists consult 
with technical and financial specialists, 
and provide information to lawmakers 
to help them make more informed 
decisions.

In 2011, we spent almost $7.5 million 

on reportable lobbying expenses at 
the federal and state levels to promote 
responsible public policy. This amount 
includes approximately $660,000 of 
our 2011 federal trade association dues 
that were used for lobbying.

Global Reporting Initiative

The global reporting Initiative (grI) 
is an internationally accepted frame-
work of economic, environmental and 
social performance indicators. We 
provide a detailed response to the 
grI indicators 
 on our website. 
below we provide a summary index 
to the indicators. With this report and 
our online information, we believe 
we meet grI guidelines Application 
level b. 

 X Standard Disclosures (pages 2-7)
 X economic Indicators (pages 3, 5-7, 

We also contributed just over 

29, 32)

$300,000 in 2011 to political 
organizations that advocate for issues 
and mobilize voters, but do not directly 
support or oppose candidates — for 
example, the republican governors 
Association and the Democratic 
governors Association. 

The company is legally prohibited 

from making direct contributions 
to candidates running for federal 
political offices in the u.S., and is 
similarly prohibited from making 
such contributions in certain states. 
In 2011, we contributed just over 
$58,000 in the states where such 
contributions are allowed.

Read our Political Activity Policy 

for additional information. 

To learn how Duke Energy employees 
are participating in the political process, 
read the rest of this article in the 
Governance and Transparency section 
of our online Sustainability Report. 

 X environmental Indicators 

(pages 16-24)

 X Product responsibility Indicators 

(pages 2-7, 10-15)

 X labor Practices and Decent Work 

Indicators (pages 25-28)

 X Human rights Indicators (Please 

see our index at duke-energy.com/
sustainability/human-rights-
indicators.asp 

)
 X Society Indicators (pages 24, 29-31, 

33-34)

About our data

environmental and social data can be 
challenging to measure accurately. We 
work to continually improve our data 
measurement, gathering and reporting 
processes to increase the integrity of 
information presented. We correct and 
report errors in prior-year data where 
found. This report contains the best 
data available at time of publication.

34  Duke energy COrPOrATIOn 2011 | 2012 SuSTAInAbIlITy rePOrT

 
 
INDEPENDENT REVIEw

business for Social responsibility 
(bSr) is pleased to provide our sixth 
independent review of Duke energy’s 
annual Sustainability report. Our 
comments below reflect our knowledge 
of material sustainability issues for 
the electric utilities sector, familiarity 
with Duke energy and the company’s 
reporting practices, and experience 
working with leading global companies 
to apply international standards 
and best practices in sustainability 
reporting. This review neither verifies 
nor expresses an opinion on the 
accuracy, materiality, or completeness 
of information provided in this report.

Significant achievements in the 
2011|2012 report include:

X Extensive reporting on the social, 

environmental and business results 
of Duke Energy’s sustainability 
initiatives. This year’s report is 
notable for its documentation of 
the tangible social, environmental, 
and business results both from 
the company’s progress against 
its long-term sustainability goals 
(e.g., cumulative improvement in 
safety and waste reduction) and from 
demonstrated achievements such 
as the digital grid pilots. business 
returns — including cost savings, 
new potential products (associated 
with sustainability innovation), 
improved employee engagement, 
and a culture of innovation — 
demonstrate Duke energy’s 
commitment to sustainability.

X Substantial discussion of supply 

chain sustainability. We are pleased 
to see Duke energy incorporate last 
year’s feedback and make strides 
in the quality and sophistication of 
discussion on supply chain sustain-
ability. This includes an overview of 
the company’s procurement activi-
ties, which helps readers understand 
impacts and the rationale for the 
company’s approach to managing 
them, as well as initiatives to reduce 
energy use and packaging waste.

 X Straightforward tone and 

 X Follow-up reporting on the 

effectiveness of talent recruitment 
initiatives. Duke energy, along 
with the electric utility industry as 
a whole, faces critical shortages 
in qualified personnel over the 
next 5 to 10 years. This year’s 
report outlines the company’s 
initiatives, alone and in concert 
with the industry and other partners, 
to increase the talent pipeline. 
We look forward to seeing the 
outcomes of these efforts and 
hearing about lessons learned 
from their implementation.

We appreciate the opportunity to 
share our feedback and look forward 
to following Duke energy’s ongoing 
sustainability journey.

Julia Ka’iulani Nelson
Manager, Energy & Extractives
Business for Social Responsibility
April 5, 2012

accessible language. Over the 
years, we have been impressed 
by the report’s simple and clear 
explanations of complex concepts 
through accessible language 
and candid acknowledgement of 
successes and challenges. We 
are pleased with Duke energy’s 
consistent performance in this area.

Areas that we wish to highlight for 
Duke energy to address in future 
reports include:

X Additional detail in reporting 

on absolute carbon emissions. 
Stakeholder expectations about 
the specificity and detail of carbon 
emissions reporting are rapidly 
increasing. Should the Duke 
energy/Progress energy merger 
move forward, this scrutiny will 
only increase — as the largest 
electric utility in the united States 
and one of the largest in the world, 
the company will be viewed as a 
microcosm for the hard choices 
and disruptive innovation needed 
to transition to a low-carbon 
economy. Duke energy will need to 
provide a clearer picture of where 
and how emission reductions are 
achieved by business unit (regulated 
generation, commercial power and 
international) and geographically 
across the company’s service 
territories to provide readers with an 
intimate understanding of progress 
and challenges. 

X Provide insight into how existing 
Duke Energy pollution controls 
and proposed EPA regulations 
protect health. Advocacy groups 
and residents have raised general 
concerns about the potential 
health impacts of air emissions 
from coal facilities. We encourage 
Duke energy to provide further 
insight for stakeholders on its 
technologies and processes to 
minimize impacts. 

  Icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com  35

 
FORwARD-lOOKING INFORMATION

Cautionary statements regarding forward-looking information

This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 

27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
Forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions. These 
forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” 
“intend,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” 
“will,” “potential,” “forecast,” “target,” “guidance,” “outlook” and similar expressions. 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to 
be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not 
limited to: state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of 
compliance with existing and future environmental requirements, as well as rulings that affect 
cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal 
and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial 
and residential growth or decline in Duke Energy’s service territories, customer base or customer 
usage patterns; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; 
political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; 
the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy’s operations, including 
the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornados; 
the impact on Duke Energy’s facilities and businesses from a terrorist attack; the inherent 
risks associated with the operation and potential construction of nuclear facilities, including 
environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; the timing and extent of changes 
in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation 
outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the 
performance of electric generation facilities and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy’s 

NON-GAAP FINANCIAl MEASURES

Adjusted diluted earnings per share

Duke Energy’s 2011-2012 Sustainability report references 2011 adjusted diluted earnings 
per share (EPS) of $1.46. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting 
principles) financial measure, as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations 
attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact 
of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power 
segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will 
not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits 
could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative 
contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately, as such derivative contracts 
do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting used in Duke Energy’s hedging 
of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power 
segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due 
to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, 
the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those commodities. Because the 
operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management 
believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes for the economic hedge contracts 
from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge 
contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management 
believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, 
as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the company’s performance across 
periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.

The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted 

EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, 
which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges 
in the Commercial Power segment. The following is a reconciliation of reported diluted EPS from 
continuing operations to adjusted diluted EPS for 2011, 2010, and 2009:

Diluted EPS from continuing operations, as reported
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations, as reported
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items, as reported
Diluted EPS, as reported
Adjustments to reported EPS:
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items
Diluted EPS impact of special items and 
mark-to-market in Commercial Power

Diluted EPS, adjusted

2011
$1.28
—
—
$1.28

—
—

0.18
$1.46

2010
$1.00
—
—
$1.00

—
—

0.43
$1.43

2009
$0.82
0.01
—
$0.83

(0.01)
—

0.40
$1.22

nonregulated businesses; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy’s subsidiaries’ 
ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, 
including the credit ratings of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries and general economic conditions; 
declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for 
Duke Energy’s defined benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties 
to Duke Energy’s transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability 
to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy and its business 
units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power 
and other projects; construction and development risks associated with the completion of the 
capital investment projects of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries in existing and new generation 
facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, 
meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental 
performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from ratepayers in a timely 
manner or at all; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting 
standard-setting bodies; the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed 
merger with Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), including the timing, receipt and terms 
and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger 
that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion 
of management’s time and attention from Duke Energy’s ongoing business during this time 
period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers, the ability 
to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and 
the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different 
from what the companies expect; the risk that the proposed merger with Progress Energy is 
terminated prior to completion and results in significant transaction costs to Duke Energy; 
and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans.

The following is the detail of the $(0.18) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2011:

(in millions, except per-share amounts)
Edwardsport impairment
Emission allowances impairment
Costs to achieve the Progress Energy merger
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges
Total adjusted EPS impact

Pre-Tax 
Amount
$ (222)
(79)
(68)
(1)

Tax Effect
$ 87
28
17
—

2011 Diluted 
EPS Impact
$ (0.10)
(0.04)
(0.04)
—
$ (0.18)

The following is the detail of the $(0.43) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2010:

(in millions, except per-share amounts)
Goodwill and other impairments
Voluntary retirement plan & office consolidation costs
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger
litigation reserve
Asset sales
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges
Total adjusted EPS impact

Pre-Tax 
Amount
$ (660)
(172)
(27)
(26)
248
33

Tax Effect
$ 58
67
10
10
(94)
(12)

2010 Diluted 
EPS Impact
$ (0.46)
(0.08)
(0.01)
(0.01)
0.12
0.01
$ (0.43)

The following is the detail of the $(0.40) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2009:

(in millions, except per-share amounts)
Goodwill and other impairments
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges
International transmission adjustment
Crescent-related guarantees and tax adjustments
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger
Total adjusted EPS impact

Pre-Tax 
Amount
$ (431)
(60)
(32)
(26)
(25)

Tax Effect
$ 21
22
10
(3)
10

2009 Diluted 
EPS Impact
$ (0.32)
(0.03)
(0.02)
(0.02)
(0.01)
$ (0.40)

Duke Energy’s 2011-2012 Sustainability report also references the forecasted range of 
growth of 4%-6% in adjusted diluted EPS (on a compound annual growth rate (“CAGr”) basis) 
from a base of adjusted diluted EPS for 2009 of $1.22. Due to the forward-looking nature of this 
non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile it to the most directly 
comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to 
project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.

550 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, nC 28202
email: sustainability@duke-energy.com
Website: sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

Copyright 2012 Duke Energy Corporation 
All rights reserved

 
 
 
