2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0   s u s t a i n a b i l i t y   r e p o r t

What is simple about providing

affordable, 
reliable

and clean energY?

company profile
Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the United 
States, based on kilowatt-hour sales. Our regulated utility operations serve approximately 
4 million customers located in five states in the Southeast and Midwest, representing a 
population of approximately 11 million people. Our commercial power and international 
business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America 
and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United 
States.

our mission
At Duke Energy, we make people’s lives better by providing gas and electric services in 
a sustainable way – affordable, reliable and clean. This requires us to constantly look for 
ways to improve, to grow and to reduce our impact on the environment.

our values
	 Safety	– We put safety first in all we do.

	 Caring – We look out for each other. We strive to make the environment and 

communities around us better places to live.

Integrity	– We do the right thing. We honor our commitments. We admit when 
we’re wrong.

	 Openness	– We’re open to change and to new ideas from our co-workers, customers 
and other stakeholders. We explore ways to grow our business and make it better.

	 Passion	–	We’re passionate about what we do. We strive for excellence. We take 

personal accountability for our actions.

	 Respect	– We value diverse talents, perspectives and experiences. We treat others 

the way we want to be treated.

2009 | 2010 recognition

In 2009, Duke Energy was named to the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North 
American companies in the electric utility 
sector – for the fourth consecutive year.

  For the fourth year in a row, the Ethisphere 
Institute named Duke Energy one of the  
“World’s Most Ethical Companies” in 2010. 

  Corporate Responsibility magazine named Duke 

Energy to its 2010 “100 Best Corporate Citizens List.”

  Duke Energy appeared on the Corporate Knights 2010 list of the Global 

100 Most Sustainable Corporations.

  Duke Energy was listed 21st on the 2010 Maplecroft Climate Innovation 

Index – a ranking of 300 large U.S. companies that publicly engage on the  
issue of climate change.

2

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

	
 
about this report

	respond	to	a	common	question:	

This	2009|2010	Sustainability	Report	
and	Duke	Energy’s	2009	Annual		
Report	
“What	is	simple	about	providing	afford-
able,	reliable	and	clean	energy?”	As		
you’ll	read	throughout	this	report,	we	
believe	the	answer	is:	“Nothing.”

Balancing	the	need	for	affordable,	reliable	
and	cleaner	energy	for	the	21st	century	
represents	an	important	leadership	oppor-
tunity	for	our	company	and	our	country.	
Despite	the	complexity	of	the	challenge,	
we	believe	our	commitment	to	sustain-
ability	–	doing	business	in	a	way	that’s	
good	for	people,	the	planet	and	profits	–		
is	helping	Duke	Energy	make	decisions	
that	are	good	for	today,	and	even	better		
for	tomorrow.

This	is	the	fourth	annual	update	we’ve	
published	on	our	sustainability	efforts.		
In	this	report,	we	describe	our	progress	
in	bringing	advanced	energy	technologies	
to	market,	reducing	our	environmental	
footprint,	strengthening	our	position	as	a	
best-in-class	employer,	contributing	to	the	
vitality	of	our	communities	and	growing	
our	business	in	a	responsible	way.

Of	note	in	this	year’s	report:

In	Jim	Rogers’	letter	to	stakeholders,	
he	discusses	how	repowering	our	
country	–	investing	in	cleaner	energy	–	
can	help	rebuild	the	economy,	create	
jobs,	improve	the	environment	and	
strengthen	our	national	energy	security.	
In	the	“Five	Viewpoints”	feature,	
we	invite	experts	from	outside	the	
company	to	share	their	perspectives		
on	the	need	for	affordable,	reliable		
and	cleaner	energy.		

	 We	present	our	updated	sustain-

ability	plan,	which	has	been	revised	
and	simplified	based	on	stakeholder	
feedback.	The	10	corporate	goals	
represent	areas	that	are	most	material	
and/or	provide	opportunities	to	engage	
employees	in	sustainability.	

	 As	always,	we	provide	a	summary	

index	to	the	Global	Reporting	Initiative	
(GRI)	indicators.	A	more	detailed	index	
is	available	on	our	Web	site.	

This	year,	we	offer	printed	and	Web	
versions	of	our	Sustainability	Report.		
The	printed	report	emphasizes	the	issues	
that	are	most	important	to	our	stake-
holders	and	to	us,	including	technology	
innovations,	our	growing	renewable		
energy	portfolio	and	the	environmental	
impacts	of	our	operations.

We	supplement	this	content	with	
additional	articles	online	at	sustain-
abilityreport.duke-energy.com.	The	online	
version	of	this	report	also	features:
	 Videos	on	smart	grid	technology,	

energy	storage,	economic	development,	
Duke	Energy’s	2009	performance		
and	other	topics,	and

	 Enhanced	content,	such	as	expanded	
Q&A	features	and	“mouse-over”		
definitions	of	key	terms.

This	updated	approach	allows	us	to	
present	our	most	material	issues	in		
greater	detail,	reference	information		
that	may	have	been	released	over	the		
past	year,	and	reduce	the	environmental		
impact	of	producing	the	report.		
Throughout	the	printed	version	of	our	
Sustainability	Report,	we	denote	the		
availability	of	additional	online	content	
with	this	computer	mouse	icon:	

Because	sustainability	is	a	global	impera-
tive,	Duke	Energy	International	supple-
ments	this	report	with	its	own	publication	
covering	our	operations	in	Latin	America.	
Copies	of	that	report	are	available	on	
www.duke-energy.com.	

We	welcome	your	feedback	about	the	
changes	in	our	sustainability	plan	and	
report	–	or	other	issues	of	interest.		
You	can	e-mail	me	at	sustainability@	
duke-energy.com.

Roberta Bowman
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Sustainability Officer
April 6, 2010

contents
3
About	this	Report	
4
Duke	Energy	at	a	Glance	
5
Letter	from	the	Chairman	
Five	Viewpoints	
10
Supply	and	Energy	Efficiency	Options	 12
13
What	Matters	Most	
Duke	Energy’s	Sustainability	Filter©	
13
14
Our	Sustainability	Plan	and	Goals	
16
Innovative	Products	and	Services	
22
Environmental	Footprint	
30
Quality	Workforce	
33
Strong	Communities	
36
Governance	and	Transparency	
38
Global	Reporting	Initiative	
39
Independent	Review	

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   A B O U T   T H I S   R E P O R T

3

	
	
duKe energY at a glance

plainfield, ind.

Cincinnati, ohio

Charlotte, n.C.

u.s. franchised electric and gas
U.S.	Franchised	Electric	and	Gas	
(USFE&G)	consists	of	Duke	Energy’s	
regulated	generation,	electric	and	gas	
transmission	and	distribution	systems.	
USFE&G’s	generation	portfolio	is	a	
balanced	mix	of	energy	resources	
having	different	operating	characteris-
tics	and	fuel	sources.

electric operations
	 Owns	approximately	27,000	

megawatts	(MW)	of	generating	
capacity

	 Service	area	covers	about	50,000	
square	miles	with	an	estimated	
population	of	11	million

	 Service	to	approximately	4	million	
residential,	commercial	and	indus-
trial	customers

	 Over	151,600	miles	of	distribution	
lines	and	a	20,900-mile	transmis-
sion	system

gas operations
	 Regulated	natural	gas	transmis-
sion	and	distribution	services	to	
approximately	500,000	customers	
in	southwestern	Ohio	and	northern	
Kentucky

commercial power
Commercial	Power	provides	energy	
generation	and	related	services	
for	customers	throughout	the	U.S.	
Commercial	Power’s	business	units	
own	and	operate	a	balanced	portfolio	
of	approximately	7,550	net	MW	of	

generation,	exclusive	of	wind	energy	
assets.		

Duke	Energy	Generation	Services	(DEGS),	
a	Commercial	Power	subsidiary,	is	a	
leader	in	developing	innovative	renewable	
energy	solutions,	including	wind,	solar	
and	biopower	projects.	DEGS	builds,	owns	
and	operates	electric	generation	for	large	
energy	consumers,	municipalities,	utilities	
and	industrial	facilities.	DEGS	owns	and	
operates	735	MW	of	wind	energy	–	a	
figure	that	will	rise	to	nearly	1,000	MW		
by	the	end	of	2010.	DEGS	is	also	working	
to	build	commercial	transmission	capacity	
to	help	the	U.S.	meet	its	energy	needs	of	
the	future.

Duke	Energy	Retail	Sales,	another	
Commercial	Power	business	unit,		
serves	retail	electric	customers	in		
Ohio	with	generation	and	other	energy	
services	at	competitive	rates.

duke energy international
Duke	Energy	International	(DEI)	operates	
and	manages	power	generation	facilities	
and	engages	in	sales	and	marketing	of	
electric	power	and	natural	gas	outside	the	
U.S.	DEI’s	activities	target	power	genera-
tion	in	Latin	America.	DEI	also	has	an	
equity	investment	in	National	Methanol	
Co.	in	Saudi	Arabia,	a	regional	producer		
of	MTBE,	a	gasoline	additive.
	 Owns,	operates	or	has	substantial	

interests	in	approximately	4,000	net	
MW	of	generation	facilities

	 About	75	percent	of	DEI’s	generating	

capacity	is	hydroelectric

Corporate Headquarters
u.s. Franchised electric and Gas area
Major u.s. office location
Duke energy international office location

forecasted 2010  
adjusted segment ebit1
  77%   u.s. Franchised electric and Gas2
  9%  Commercial power2
  14%   Duke energy international2

business mix  
diversity2
  77%   regulated
  23%  non-regulated

1  Forecasted 2010 adjusted segment earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) contribution.
2  percent of forecasted adjusted total segment ebit does not include results for the operations labeled as other.

4

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

letter from the chairman

dear stakeholders: 
Whenever i’m asked about the most 
challenging part of my job, my answer 
is always the same: striking the right 
balance to deliver energy that is afford-
able, reliable and clean. it sounds like 
a simple goal, but achieving it – year 
after year and in all economic cycles – 
is anything but simple.

Jim rogers | Chairman, president and Ceo

Meeting	our	customers’	expectations	for	
clean,	reliable	and	affordable	electricity		
24	hours	a	day,	seven	days	a	week	is	both	
an	art	and	a	science.	As	we	develop	our	
long-range	plans,	we	consider	economic	
trends	and	commodity	prices,	we	model	
weather	patterns,	and	we	estimate	supply	
and	demand	curves.	That’s	the	“science.”	
The	“art”	of	planning	comes	in	identifying	
trends	in	technology,	consumer	behavior	
and	public	policy	that	may	affect	our	
business.	That’s	where	we	are	guided		
by	the	discipline	of	sustainability,	as		
well	as	the	talents,	culture	and	values		
of	our	people.

The	issues	we	face	today	–	rebuilding	
the	economy,	addressing	climate	change,	
conserving	natural	resources	–	all	require	
integrated	solutions.	Sustainability	helps	
us	recognize	linkages,	address	impacts	
and	seize	opportunities	that	might	be	
missed	with	more	traditional,	“linear”	
approaches	to	problem-solving.	That’s	why	
I	think	sustainability	is	an	essential	part	of	

the	art	of	business	planning	and	leader-
ship	in	the	21st	century.

At	Duke	Energy,	we	define	sustainability	
as	operating	our	business	in	a	way	that	is	
good	for	people,	the	planet	and	profits.	As	
we	look	to	a	cleaner	energy	future,	we	see	
our	role	as	helping	to	create	jobs,	reducing	
environmental	impacts	and	ensuring	the	
economic	competitiveness	of	our	company,	
our	investors,	our	customers	and	our	
nation.	This	Sustainability	Report	outlines	
the	highlights	and	challenges	of	our	efforts	
to	become	a	more	sustainable	company	in	
2009,	and	our	mission	to	deliver	reliable,	
affordable	and	cleaner	electricity.

energy: the engine for  
economic recovery
Last	year	was	difficult	for	both	our	
customers	and	our	industry.	In	the	latter	
half	of	2009,	we	saw	signs	the	economy	
might	be	stabilizing,	but	we	expect	the	
recovery	ahead	to	be	slow	and	uneven.

Duke	Energy’s	regulated	electric	sales	in	
2009	–	a	good	barometer	of	the	economy	–	
were	down	4	percent	from	the	previous	
year	on	a	weather-normalized	basis,	with	
industrial	sales	down	14	percent.	And,	as	
I	write	this	letter,	we’re	continuing	to	see	
double-digit	unemployment	in	several	of	
our	jurisdictions.

No	nation	can	achieve	greatness	when	
its	people	are	idled	by	unemployment.	
Our	company	has	a	special	opportunity	
to	lead	during	this	economic	recovery.	
By	modernizing	our	generating	fleet	and	
using	electricity	more	efficiently,	we	can	
put	people	to	work,	reduce	carbon	dioxide	
(CO2)	and	other	emissions,	improve	energy	
security	and	maintain	competitive	prices		
for	our	customers.

I	believe	that	repowering	our	country	for	
the	21st	century	–	delivering	reliable,	
affordable	and	cleaner	electricity	–	could	
be	the	most	important	opportunity	of	our	
time.	It	could	also	be	the	most	daunting.	

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   L E T T E R   F R O M   T H E   C H A I R M A N

5

		
The	technologies	we	invest	in	today	can	
operate	for	half	a	century	or	more	and	cost	
billions	of	dollars.	The	chart	on	page	12	
summarizes	our	current	view	of	supply	
and	energy	efficiency	options.	We	use	
several	sustainability	criteria	to	evaluate	
these	options,	including	cost,	reliability,	
environmental	impacts	and	job	creation.

The	global	markets	are	clearly	moving	
toward	a	low-carbon	economy.	This	
shift	represents	a	unique	opportunity	for	
countries	that	develop	and	sell	cleaner	
energy	technologies.	Nations	that	delay	
will	lose	more	jobs	and	the	ability	to	
compete	globally,	and	may	end	up	buying	
clean	technology	from	foreign	suppliers.

update on climate policy
Regular	readers	of	this	report	know	that	we	
have	taken	a	leadership	role	–	in	the	U.S.	
and	globally	–	in	the	climate	change	policy	
debate.	We	believe	that	clear,	reasonable	
regulations	and	price	signals	on	carbon	
are	required	to	address	climate	change	
and	provide	businesses	with	the	certainty	
we	need	to	make	long-term	investment	
decisions.

I	remain	active	in	the	U.S.	Climate	Action	
Partnership	
	to	advocate	for	fair	legisla-
tion	in	the	U.S.	and	testified	twice	before	
Congress	in	2009.	While	Congress	has	
not	yet	passed	legislation	to	control	or	
reduce	greenhouse	gases	(GHG)	
U.S.	House	of	Representatives	passed	the	
American	Clean	Energy	and	Security	Act	of	
2009	(also	known	as	the	Waxman-Markey	
Bill)	in	June.	And,	work	on	compromise	
legislation	continues	in	the	Senate,	led	by	
Senators	Graham,	Kerry	and	Lieberman.

,	the	

In	late	2009,	the	U.S.	Environmental	
Protection	Agency	took	steps	to	classify	
GHG	as	a	threat	to	public	health	and	
welfare.	This	underscores	the	govern-
ment’s	intent	to	regulate	GHG	emissions	
–	either	through	legislation	or	rulemaking	
under	the	current	Clean	Air	Act	(CAA).

I	also	participated	in	several	meetings	on	
a	global	framework	that	can	be	adopted	
after	the	Kyoto	Protocol	expires	in	2012.	
While	the	United	Nations	meeting	in	
Copenhagen	failed	to	meet	the	high		
expectations	for	clarity	post-Kyoto,	more	
than	100	countries	conditionally	endorsed	
the	Copenhagen	Accord,	signaling	their	
intent	to	reduce	GHG	emissions.	

Beyond	climate	change,	there	are	a	
number	of	other	legislative,	regulatory	and	
legal	issues	that	could	affect	our	use	of	
coal.	(See	updates	on	page	24.)	These	
include	potential	new	regulations	on	air	
emissions,	coal	ash	storage	and	use,	and	
mountaintop-removal	coal	mining,	as	
well	as	litigation	involving	New	Source	
Review	provisions	of	the	CAA.	New	regula-
tions	could	require	us	to	retrofit	or	retire	
thousands	of	megawatts	(MW)	of	coal-fired	
generation,	beyond	what	we	are	already	
planning.

reducing our carbon footprint
We	have	shared	in	the	past	two	editions		
of	this	Sustainability	Report	our	aspiration	
to	reduce	our	2006	U.S.	CO2	emissions	
by	50	percent	by	2030.	In	2009,	our	U.S.	
generation	fleet	emitted	about	91	million	
tons	of	CO2	–	down	from	105	million	
tons	in	2008.	However,	some	of	this	
reduction	is	a	“false	positive,”	driven	by	
the	weakened	economy	and	resulting	
lower	demand	for	electricity.

Another	important	metric	is	“carbon		
intensity,”	which	is	the	amount	of	CO2	
emitted	per	unit	of	electricity	produced.		
As	the	table	on	page	28	shows,	our	
carbon	intensity	improved	in	2009	due	
to	reduced	coal-fired	generation	and	more	
nuclear	and	hydroelectric	generation.	
Based	on	2008	data,	the	latest	available,	
our	carbon	intensity	ranks	us	10th	among	
the	20	largest	U.S.-based,	investor-owned	
utilities.	Overall	fleet	efficiency	also	lowers	
carbon	intensity,	and	I	am	particularly	
proud	of	our	fossil	and	nuclear	power	
operations,	which	performed	exceptionally	
well	during	2009.

Recent	disclosures	of	inaccuracies	or	bias	
in	some	climate	studies	have	slowed	the	
momentum	to	address	climate	change.	
We	maintain	that	there	is	no	place	for	
bias	in	scientific	research.	But,	even	if	the	
overall	body	of	scientific	evidence	were	
reversed	to	show	that	climate	change	
isn’t	real,	Duke	Energy	would	still	have	to	
retire	and	replace	most	of	the	generation	
it	operates	today	within	the	next	40	years,	
due	to	normal	aging.	
	As	a	result,	we	are	
modernizing	our	generating	fleet	with	more	
efficient	and	lower-emitting	power	plants,	
and	helping	our	customers	use	energy	
more	efficiently.

modernizing and diversifying  
our generation fleet
cleaner coal
Replacing	some	of	our	oldest	coal-fired	
plants	with	new,	efficient	and	lower-
emitting	coal	units	makes	economic		
sense	because	of	our	nation’s	vast	supply	
of	affordable	coal.

At	the	end	of	2009,	our	825-MW	Cliffside	
advanced-coal	project	in	North	Carolina	
was	roughly	55	percent	complete.	When	
it	goes	into	operation	in	2012,	this	“bridge	
plant”	will	help	replace	about	1,000	MW	
of	older,	higher-emitting	coal	units,	which	
we	will	retire	from	service.	Construction	of	
the	new	unit	at	Cliffside	has	been	opposed	
by	some	special	interest	groups.	Because	
of	the	very	detailed	regulatory	review	that	
preceded	the	plant’s	licensing	and	permit-
ting,	we	have	prevailed	against	every	
challenge	to	halt	construction.

	plant	under	

When	completed	in	2012,	our	630-MW	
Edwardsport	integrated	gasification	
combined-cycle	(IGCC)	
construction	in	Indiana	will	be	one	of	the	
cleanest,	largest	and	most	advanced	coal	
gasification	plants	in	the	world.	The	plant,	
which	is	about	50	percent	complete,	will	
replace	160	MW	of	higher-emitting	gener-
ation	that	is	more	than	half	a	century	old.	
In	addition,	we	are	investing	$17	million	

6

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

“almost 40 percent of the electricity we generated in 
2009 was from carbon-free sources.”

to	study	carbon	capture	at	the	site.	We	
are	also	proposing	to	spend	$42	million	
for	the	first	phase	of	work	to	permanently	
store	up	to	60	percent	of	the	plant’s	CO2	
emissions	underground.

One	of	the	challenges	we	have	faced	
during	the	construction	of	the	Edwardsport	
IGCC	plant	is	managing	the	costs	associ-
ated	with	design	modifications	and	scope	
changes.	We	will	continue	to	partner	with	
our	supplier,	General	Electric,	and	the	
construction	management	firm,	Bechtel,	to	
bring	the	plant	on	line	in	the	most	timely,	
cost-effective	manner	possible.

Our	Cliffside	and	Edwardsport	projects	
represent	two	of	the	largest	capital	projects	
under	way	in	their	states.	Together,	they	
will	employ	approximately	4,000	workers	
during	peak	construction.

In	addition	to	our	investments	in	new		
coal	units,	we	have	spent	approximately	
$5	billion	over	the	last	decade	to	signifi-
cantly	reduce	sulfur	dioxide	and	nitrogen	
oxides	from	our	existing	coal	fleet,	
improving	air	quality.

Finally,	to	gain	experience	in	the	carbon	
offset	market,	we	became	the	lead	
investor	in	GreenTrees,	a	program	that	
aims	to	offset	carbon	emissions	through	
the	reforestation	of	1	million	acres	in	the	
Lower	Mississippi	Alluvial	Valley.	Our	
initial	investment	funded	the	planting	of	
more	than	1	million	trees	on	approximately	
1,700	acres	in	Arkansas.

natural gas
The	discovery	of	new	shale	gas	reserves	
(see	page	26)	could	be	significant	for	
our	nation’s	energy	future.	We	believe	
a	diverse	portfolio	of	fuels	protects	our	
customers	from	price	and	supply	volatility,	
and	natural	gas	is	a	part	of	that	equation.	

We	are	building	two	highly	efficient	
620-MW	combined-cycle	natural	gas-fired	
plants	at	two	existing	coal-fired	generating	

sites	in	North	Carolina.	When	completed	
in	2011	and	2012,	these	cleaner-burning	
units	will	leverage	our	ability	to	use	
growing	supplies	of	domestic	natural		
gas.	They	will	also	enable	the	retirement		
of	about	250	MW	of	older	coal-fired	units	
as	part	of	the	1,000	MW	referenced	
earlier.	Building	the	two	North	Carolina		
gas	plants	creates	approximately	1,000	
peak	construction	jobs.

nuclear power
Any	plan	to	decarbonize	our	genera-
tion	fleet	must	include	nuclear	power,	
which	has	a	proven	safety	record,	emits	
no	greenhouse	gases	and	can	produce	
electricity	around	the	clock.	We	continue	to	
pursue	plans,	including	potential	regional	
partnerships,	to	develop	a	new	2,234-MW	
nuclear	power	plant	in	Cherokee	County,	
S.C.	If	approved,	the	William	States	Lee	III	
Nuclear	Station	could	come	on	line	in	the	
2021	time	frame.	

Bringing	nuclear	energy	to	the	Midwest	
will	help	reduce	that	region’s	reliance	
on	coal.	In	June	2009,	we	created	the	
Southern	Ohio	Clean	Energy	Park	Alliance	
to	explore	development	of	a	nuclear	power	
plant	at	a	U.S.	Department	of	Energy	
(DOE)	site	formerly	used	for	defense	
manufacturing.

The	proposed	nuclear	power	plant	in	
South	Carolina	and	the	potential	plant	in	
Ohio	would	create	an	estimated	7,000	
peak	construction	jobs	combined	–	not	to	
mention	hundreds	of	high-paying	perma-
nent	jobs	and	ongoing	contributions	to	the	
local	communities’	tax	bases	once	these	
facilities	are	operating.

renewable energy
We	continued	to	invest	in	renewable	
energy	in	2009	to	diversify	our	fuel	mix	
and	reduce	our	carbon	footprint.	Including	
our	renewable	energy	assets,	our	nuclear	
fleet	in	the	Carolinas	and	our	hydroelec-
tric	assets	in	North	America	and	South	
America,	we	are	now	the	third-largest	

producer	of	carbon-free	electricity	in	the	
Americas	among	U.S.-based,	investor-
owned	utilities.	Almost	40	percent	of	the	
electricity	we	generated	in	2009	was	from	
carbon-free	sources.

In	2009,	our	commercial	wind	power	
business	brought	more	than	360	MW	of	
electric	generation	on	line	in	three	states.	
We	have	two	wind	farms	under	construc-
tion	that	will	raise	our	total	to	nearly	1,000	
MW	in	operation	by	the	end	of	2010.	

Last	year,	North	Carolina’s	policymakers	
passed	legislation	to	enable	the	explora-
tion	of	offshore	wind	power.	As	a	result,	
we	announced	plans	to	install	up	to	three	
offshore	wind	turbines	in	waters	between	
the	mainland	and	the	state’s	Outer	Banks.	
We	are	partnering	with	the	University	
of	North	Carolina	at	Chapel	Hill	on	this	
initiative	and	gauging	local	support	for	the	
project.	The	project’s	turbines	could	be	
among	the	first	placed	in	waters	off	the	
U.S.	coast.

Also	in	2009,	the	North	Carolina	Utilities	
Commission	approved	our	$50	million	
program	to	install	solar	panels	on	the	
properties	of	a	select	number	of	industrial,	
commercial	and	residential	customers	in	
the	state.	When	the	project	is	complete,	
Duke	Energy	will	own	and	operate	8	MW	
of	solar	generation	–	enough	to	power	
about	1,300	average-sized	homes.	We	
also	began	buying	4	MW	of	energy	from	a	
North	Carolina	solar	farm	in	late	2009.

	venture	in	January	2010	–	

We	announced	our	first	commercial	solar	
photovoltaic	
the	14-MW	Blue	Wing	Solar	Project	in	
San	Antonio,	Texas.	Under	the	terms	of	
a	30-year	power	purchase	agreement,	
the	output	from	the	139-acre	facility	will	
serve	customers	of	CPS	Energy,	one	of	the	
largest	municipal	utilities	in	the	U.S.	In	
2009,	we	also	entered	into	an	agreement	
to	jointly	develop	commercial	solar	projects	
in	the	U.S.	with	China-based	ENN	Group.	

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   L E T T E R   F R O M   T H E   C H A I R M A N

7

“no nation can achieve greatness when its people are idled by unemployment. i believe that 
repowering our country for the 21st century – delivering reliable, affordable and cleaner 
electricity – could be the most important opportunity of our time.”

Additionally,	ADAGE,	the	biopower	
company	we	own	with	AREVA,	began	
the	permitting	process	to	build	a	55-MW	
carbon-neutral	
	biomass	plant	in	Florida	
that	will	generate	electricity	by	burning	
wood	waste.	In	early	2010,	ADAGE	and	
John	Deere	announced	an	alliance	for	
collecting,	bundling	and	transporting	wood	
debris	from	regional	logging	operations	in	
western	Washington	to	fuel	a	proposed	
55-MW	biopower	plant	in	the	area.

We	continue	to	augment	the	renew-
able	energy	component	of	our	regulated	
portfolio	through	power	purchase	agree-
ments.	In	recent	years,	we	have	entered	
into	contracts	to	buy	more	than	170	MW	
of	renewable	energy,	including	wind,	solar,	
hydroelectric	and	landfill	gas.

energy efficiency
I’ve	often	said	the	cleanest,	most	efficient	
power	plant	is	the	one	we	never	have	to	
build.	If	we	can	help	our	customers	save	
energy	–	and	save	money	in	the	process	–	
it	can	reduce	the	demand	for	new	power	
plants.

Most	utilities	today	continue	to	operate	
under	regulatory	frameworks	created	
decades	ago	that	reward	them	for	building	
new	power	plants	and	distribution	
systems.	Utilities	therefore	lack	incentives	
to	invest	in	energy	efficiency.	Our	regula-
tory	model	for	energy	efficiency	is	very	
different	from	the	traditional	electric	utility	
model.	It	gives	us	an	incentive	to	sell		
less,	not	more,	electricity,	by	allowing	
us	an	opportunity	to	earn	a	return	on	a	
portion	of	what	it	would	cost	to	build		
new	generation.	And,	under	a	“pay	for	
performance”	structure,	Duke	Energy	is	
only	compensated	for	the	actual	energy	
savings	achieved	by	customers	through	
our	energy	efficiency	programs.

First	approved	in	Ohio	in	December	
2008,	our	energy	efficiency	framework	
was	approved	in	North	Carolina	in	2009,	
and	in	South	Carolina	and	Indiana	in	
early	2010.	We	are	evaluating	our	energy	
efficiency	proposal	in	Kentucky	and	may	
file	for	approval	in	late	2010.

smart grid
Our	energy	efficiency	vision	cannot	be	
fully	realized	without	modernizing	our	
power	delivery	system.	That’s	why	we’re	
investing	up	to	$1	billion	over	the	next	
five	years	in	smart	grid	technologies	that	
will	begin	to	transform	today’s	century-old	
power	delivery	system	into	an	advanced	
energy	network	that	provides	electricity	
and	energy	usage	information.

Building	a	smarter	grid	involves	replacing	
analog	switches,	meters	and	controls	
with	new	equipment	that	enables	digital,	
two-way	communication	between	utilities	
and	their	customers.	A	more	intelligent	
power	distribution	system	will	improve		
the	reliability	of	our	service,	enhance	
energy	efficiency,	and	give	customers		
more	control	over	their	electricity	use	–	
and	their	energy	bill.

By	the	end	of	2009,	we	had	invested	
approximately	$90	million	to	deploy	
limited-scale	smart	grid	projects.	We	
continue	to	pursue	smart	grid	deploy-
ments	in	North	Carolina,	South	Carolina,	
Kentucky	and	Indiana.	In	December	
2008,	we	received	approval	from	the	
Public	Utilities	Commission	of	Ohio	to	
move	forward	with	full-scale	deployment	
in	our	service	territory.	After	conducting	
successful	pilot	programs	in	2009,	we	
expect	to	install	140,000	smart	electric	
and	gas	meters	and	other	associated	
technologies	in	2010.	Our	Ohio	deploy-
ment	will	grow	to	more	than	1	million	
smart	meters	and	other	components	
installed	over	the	next	five	years.

In	2009,	the	DOE	awarded	us	$200	
million	under	the	American	Recovery	and	
Reinvestment	Act	to	support	our	smart	
grid	projects	in	the	Midwest,	and	another	
$4	million	toward	our	smart	grid	efforts	in	
the	Carolinas.	We	continue	to	work	with	
the	DOE	to	finalize	the	terms	of	the	grant	
contracts.

advance	this	game-changing	technology,	
we	are	teaming	with	FPL	Group	to	invest	
a	combined	$600	million,	with	the	goal	
that	100	percent	of	all	new	fleet	vehicles	
purchased	by	2020	will	be	PEVs.	We	
foresee	great	potential	for	job	creation	
as	we	transition	to	lower-carbon	trans-
portation.	Beyond	auto	manufacturing,	
our	nation	will	need	to	build	the	new	
recharging	infrastructure	for	these	vehicles.

investing in clean-energy  
research and development
To	accelerate	the	development	of	cleaner	
and	more	affordable	energy	technologies,	
we	are	sharing	research	and	development	
experience	with	partners	like	the	Electric	
Power	Research	Institute	(EPRI)	
,	an	
independent,	nonprofit	organization	of	
scientists,	engineers	and	other	electricity	
experts	from	around	the	world.

In	addition	to	our	commercial	solar	
joint	development	agreement	with	ENN	
Group,	we	are	also	working	with	China’s	
Huaneng	Group	to	pursue	clean-energy	
technologies,	including	carbon	capture	
and	sequestration.	
has	enormous	coal	reserves	and	huge	
potential	for	the	permanent	underground	
storage	of	CO2.	These	ventures,	along	with	
our	EPRI	collaboration,	will	help	bring	new	
technologies	to	scale	more	quickly	and	at	
lower	cost.

	Like	the	U.S.,	China	

aligning rates with our expenses
We	recognize	that	there’s	never	a	good	
time	to	increase	rates	for	customers,	and	
the	current	economic	environment	is	
particularly	tough.	As	we	invest	in	cleaner	
and	more	reliable	energy	infrastructure,	
customer	rates	will	rise.	We	are	working	
hard	to	manage	those	costs	and	leverage	
our	low	cost	of	capital	to	help	smooth	out	
the	rate	impacts	on	customers.	And,	our	
commitment	to	energy	efficiency	provides	
customers	with	greater	ability	to	manage	
their	costs.

Smart	grid	also	paves	the	way	for	other	
innovations	in	energy	technology,	such	
as	plug-in	electric	vehicles	(PEVs).	To	

In	2009,	we	filed	for	rate	increases	
in	several	service	areas	and	worked	
with	state	regulatory	staffs	and	other	

8

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

in closing
These	are	transformative	times	for	our	
company,	our	industry	and	our	nation.		
The	challenges	our	world	faces	today	
share	energy	as	an	underlying	theme		
and	investing	in	cleaner	electricity	as	a	
major	solution.	At	Duke	Energy,	we		
believe	modernizing	our	fleet	and	
promoting	energy	efficiency	can	create	
jobs,	contribute	to	our	nation’s	energy	
security	and	help	improve	the	global	
environment.	The	discipline	of	sustain-
ability	makes	us	take	a	multi-disciplinary,	
multi-stakeholder	approach	to	developing	
our	business.	It	leads	to	new	ideas	and	
innovation	that	help	solve	some	of	the	
world’s	most	challenging	problems.

In	time,	the	economy	will	rebound,	and	
the	issues	we	face	today	will	give	way	to	
new	challenges.	What	will	not	change	is	
our	commitment	to	delivering	energy	in	
the	most	affordable,	reliable	and	cleanest	
manner	possible.	It’s	what	our	customers	
expect,	and	future	generations	deserve.

Jim Rogers
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
April 6, 2010

stakeholders	to	negotiate	settlements	that		
were	fair	for	both	customers	and	investors.	
(See	page	17	for	details.)

financial results
Given	the	weak	economy	in	2009,		
Duke	Energy’s	employees	delivered	
remarkable	results.	We	reported	adjusted	
diluted	earnings	of	$1.22	per	share	in	
2009,	exceeding	our	employee	incentive	
target	of	$1.20	per	share.	We	were	able		
to	reduce	operating	expenses	by	more	than	
$150	million,	and	we	met	or	exceeded	
many	of	our	performance	goals.

Our	total	shareholder	return	(TSR)	rose		
22	percent	in	2009,	which	helped	us	
again	outperform	our	peers.	The	TSR	
for	the	Philadelphia	Utility	Index	(which	
consists	of	20	utilities	including	Duke	
Energy),	for	example,	increased	by	only		
10	percent	in	2009.

safety
One	area	where	we	didn’t	meet	expecta-
tions	is	employee	and	contractor	safety.	
After	a	fatality-free	2008,	we	suffered	
three	contractor	deaths	in	2009.	This	
reminds	us	of	the	hazards	involved	in	
bringing	energy	to	millions	of	people.		
Even	though	our	employee	injury	rate	
trended	to	the	lowest	level	ever	in	2009,	
any	injuries	or	fatalities	are	unacceptable.		
I	have	challenged	all	of	our	employees		
and	contractors	to	redouble	their	efforts		
in	this	area.

supporting our communities
In	these	difficult	times,	it’s	more	important	
than	ever	to	support	our	communities	
through	contributions,	volunteerism	and	
private/public	partnerships.	In	2009,	total	
contributions	from	the	company,	The		
Duke	Energy	Foundation,	our	employees	
and	retirees	exceeded	$28	million.

We	are	also	working	with	economic	devel-
opment	officials	in	our	five	retail	states	
to	encourage	job	growth.	As	I	mentioned	
earlier,	we	believe	that	investing	in	cleaner,	

modern	power	plants	and	infrastructure	
is	a	way	to	create	jobs	and	improve	the	
environment.	You’ll	find	more	information	
about	our	economic	development	activities	
on	page	33.	This	includes	our	efforts	to	
promote	the	Charlotte,	N.C.,	region	as	“the	
new	energy	capital”	and	to	support	clean-
energy	investments	wherever	we	operate.

sustainability and employee engagement
We	are	seeing	real	traction	from	our	
commitment	to	sustainability	–	internally	
and	externally.	As	you’ll	see	on	page	31,	
we	launched	an	effort	in	2009	to	engage	
employees	in	sustainability,	unleash	
innovation	and	share	best	practices.	I’ve	
been	impressed	by	the	scope	and	caliber	
of	ideas	that	have	come	from	employees,	
including	the	members	of	our	new	
Sustainability	Corps	–	volunteers	who	
provide	work	group	leadership	for	our	
sustainability	efforts.	We	view	sustain-
ability	as	a	cornerstone	of	our	corporate	
culture	and	values.	It	is	part	of	what		
differentiates	our	company	and	helps	us	
attract	and	retain	talented	employees.

	Chairman	and	Chief	Scientist	

Working with stakeholders
I	have	always	felt	that	collaborating	with	
stakeholders	leads	to	better	outcomes.		
The	rate	settlements	we	reached	with		
our	state	regulators	and	other	parties	
serve	as	excellent	examples	of	working	
with	diverse	stakeholders	to	find	common	
ground.	We	also	hired	Rocky	Mountain	
Institute	
Amory	Lovins	and	his	team	to	review	
our	fleet	modernization	plans	and	help	
us	advance	our	thinking	about	energy	
efficiency.	And,	we	periodically	convene	
energy	efficiency	collaboratives	to	gather	
ideas	and	feedback	from	state	energy	
officials,	large-business	customers,	
regulators	and	environmental	stake-
holders.	Finally,	we	recently	launched	
www.sheddingalight.org	
,	a	Web	site	
to	promote	dialogue	between	interested	
citizens	and	some	of	today’s	foremost	
authorities	on	energy,	environmental	and	
economic	issues.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   L E T T E R   F R O M   T H E   C H A I R M A N

9

five vieWpoints

A financial analyst. A community leader. An economic development expert. A large-business customer. An environmental issues leader. 
The participants in this virtual roundtable discussion1 represent just five of the stakeholder groups we serve. We asked them for their 
thoughts on our goals and approach to striking the right balance between affordable, reliable and clean energy. 

investment community 
perspective

andrew howard
executive Director of Global 
investment research, 
Goldman sachs

community 
perspective

donna Jones baker
president and Ceo,  
the urban league of 
Greater Cincinnati

economic development 
perspective

Jim plump
executive Director, Jackson 
County (indiana) industrial 
Development Corporation

how do “affordable,” “reliable” and 
“clean” rank in importance to you  
and your stakeholders?

be	generated;	programs	to	reduce	energy	
use	through	increased	efficiency	should	
receive	priority.

Partnership	is	helping	spur	the	government	
to	adopt	responsible	and	cost-effective	
policies	to	reduce	emissions.

howard:	The	investment	community	today	
largely	views	these	attributes	as	trade-
offs.	This	is	not	likely	to	be	the	case	over	
the	longer	term,	as	increasing	costs	are	
applied	to	carbon	emissions	and	clean	
power	technologies	advance.	I	expect	the	
cost	differential	between	low-carbon	and	
fossil-fuel	generation	will	narrow.

baker:	Individuals	and	families	must	have	
reliable	and	affordable	energy.	We	must	
also	do	what	we	can	to	ensure	that	energy	
becomes	progressively	cleaner,	to	ensure	a	
healthy	environment	for	those	who	come	
after	us.

plump:	For	business	and	industry,	reliability	
and	affordability	are	key	factors	that	help	
companies	remain	competitive	in	the	
marketplace.	In	recent	years,	however,	the	
need	for	clean	energy	has	clearly	gained	in	
importance.

dietrich:	IBM	ranks	all	three	equally,	as	
these	factors	are	very	much	intercon-
nected.	Reliable	and	affordable	power	is	
critical	to	the	operation	of	our	business	
and	our	competitiveness	in	the	global	
marketplace.	From	an	energy	generation	
standpoint,	we	think	the	most	important	
megawatt	is	the	one	that	does	not	have	to	

1  participants’ answers edited for length.

haxthausen:	My	focus	at	The	Nature	
Conservancy	is	on	reducing	emissions	
of	greenhouse	gases.	The	electric	power	
sector	contributes	the	largest	share	of	U.S.	
emissions.	Cleaning	up	these	emissions	
and	replacing	older	generating	facilities	
with	new,	clean	sources	of	electricity	are	
critical	to	solving	the	energy	and	environ-
mental	challenges	of	the	21st	century.

What is duke energy doing right  
in its quest to provide affordable,  
reliable and clean energy?

dietrich:	Duke’s	aspiration	to	cut	its	2006	
carbon	dioxide	emissions	in	half	by	2030	
provides	the	company	with	an	oppor-
tunity	to	establish	a	defined	metric	that	
drives	commitments	to	increased	energy	
efficiency	and	a	diversified,	cleaner	gener-
ating	portfolio.

haxthausen: Commitments	of	this	magni-
tude	by	major	emitters	will	be	needed	if	
we	are	to	stabilize	the	climate	and	avoid	
major	long-term	risks	to	the	environ-
ment.	Duke	Energy’s	efforts	to	reduce	
its	own	emissions	are	creating	value	
for	the	environment	and	its	customers.	
In	addition,	the	company’s	work	with	
coalitions	like	the	U.S.	Climate	Action	

baker:	I	think	Duke	really	gets	it	right	by	
investigating	every	possible	source	of	
energy,	from	nuclear,	solar,	wind	and	
natural	gas	to	the	old	standby	–	coal.	
All	are	important	ingredients	to	ensuring	
affordable,	reliable	and	clean	energy.

plump:	In	Indiana,	Duke’s	approach	is	
measured	not	only	in	words,	but	actions	
as	well.	For	example,	the	company	
has	invested	heavily	in	“cleaner	coal”	
technology	at	its	Edwardsport	facility.	Duke	
also	contracted	to	purchase	up	to	100	
megawatts	of	clean,	renewable	electricity	
from	a	wind	farm	in	Benton	County.

how can duke energy improve?

baker:	Ask	for	help	before	you	think	you	
need	it.	Duke	Energy	faces	a	number	of	
thorny	issues	that	are	regulatory,	policy	or	
operational	in	nature.	Relying	on	external	
advisory	groups	and	subject	matter	experts	
can	help	the	company	think	through	
challenging	questions	and	issues	before	
they	start	making	headlines.

haxthausen:	One	area	of	potential	
concern	to	The	Nature	Conservancy	is	
the	use	of	biomass	as	a	potential	fuel.	
We	encourage	ADAGE,	Duke	Energy’s	

10

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

large business 
perspective

Jay dietrich
Corporate environmental  
affairs program Manager, 
ibM

environmental 
perspective

eric haxthausen
Director of u.s.  
Climate policy,  
the nature Conservancy

biomass-to-electricity	joint	venture	with	
AREVA,	to	commit	to	using	slash,	mill	
residue,	agricultural	residuals	and	other	
waste	at	its	generating	stations	–	no	
sourcing	from	standing	forests.2	We	also	
encourage	ADAGE	to	explore	designing	
power	stations	to	maximize	efficiency.

plump:	When	investing	in	new	generation	
and	infrastructure,	Duke	needs	to	ensure	
costs	and	associated	rate	adjustments	still	
enable	customers	to	remain	competitive.

howard:	Increasingly,	clean	energy	will	
become	a	prerequisite	to	business	sustain-
ability.	Moving	early	in	this	direction	will	
likely	reduce	the	costs	of	adaptation	–	and	
penalties	for	non-adaptation	–	enabling	a	
more	efficient	asset	base.

What advice do you have for  
duke energy as we strive to balance 
the competing demands of customers, 
environmentalists and investors?

haxthausen:	Duke	Energy	is	doing	well	at	
taking	a	middle	path	–	balancing	each	
of	these	needs	and	supporting	forward-
looking	policies.	I	know	from	personal	
experience	that	Duke	Energy	is	lobbying	
hard	in	Washington	for	policies	that	will	
keep	rates	low,	but	customers	will	need	to	
understand	that	addressing	climate	change	
and	building	the	path	to	a	new	energy	
future	will	have	real	costs.		

plump:	My	advice:	no	surprises.	Duke	
must	continue	educating	its	stakeholders	
about	energy	issues,	implications	of	policy	
decisions,	and	the	direction	the	company	
is	headed.

howard:	Duke	Energy’s	focus	should	be	on	
generating	sustainable,	long-term	profit-
ability,	which	requires	the	company	to	
address	competing	pressures	from	different	
stakeholder	groups,	including	investors,	
customers,	regulators,	local	communities	
and	employees.	Duke	should	map	the	
anticipated	long-range	demands	of	each	
of	these	groups,	and	then	plot	a	strategic	
path	that	sufficiently	addresses	those	
issues	that	are	considered	“deal-breakers.”	

baker:	Too	often	companies	make	impor-
tant	decisions	based	on	how	it	might	
look	in	the	next	quarter.	I	would	urge	
Duke	Energy	to	think	and	act	for	the	long	
term.	Doing	so	will	benefit	customers,	the	
environment	and	investors.

how do you think the push for  
affordable, reliable and clean energy  
can help stimulate the economy?

dietrich:	Building	the	smart	grid,	investing	
in	energy	efficiency	and	diversifying	our	
nation’s	power	generation	fleet	could	all	
serve	to	encourage	economic	growth	and	
create	jobs.

2  aDaGe uses wood debris from sustainably managed forest operations to generate electricity.

haxthausen:	Changing	the	way	we	generate,	
deliver	and	use	electricity	will	require	
significant	investments	in	new	technolo-
gies	and	equipment	to	replace	outmoded	
systems.	This	means	a	host	of	new	jobs	
in	designing	and	constructing	new	facili-
ties,	renovating	buildings	to	make	them	
more	energy	efficient,	and	manufacturing	
energy-saving	and	clean-energy	products.

plump:	We’re	seeing	it	already	in	Indiana.	
For	example,	new	investments	in	wind	
turbine	component	manufacturing	and	
electric	vehicles	and	batteries	are	helping	
create	jobs.	

howard:	Significant	upgrades	to	the	U.S.	
energy	infrastructure	could	provide	a	
platform	for	American	companies	to	
become	the	leaders	in	developing	technol-
ogies	used	throughout	the	world.	This	
would	allow	more	of	the	value	created		
by	this	transformation	to	remain	in	the	
U.S.,	rather	than	allow	companies	from	
other	countries	to	build	on	their	“early	
mover”	advantage.

baker:	Thousands	of	new	inventions	and	
innovations	resulted	from	the	United	
States’	decision	to	put	a	man	on	the	moon.	
Perhaps	that’s	what	the	energy	sector	and	
our	nation	needs:	a	similarly	bold	and	
ambitious	plan	to	repower	our	country.		
I	believe	such	a	commitment	would	lead	
to	significant	economic	growth	and	job	
creation.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   F I V E   V I E W P O I N T S

11

supplY and energY efficiencY options

This	table	summarizes	our	current	view	of	supply	and	energy	efficiency	options	to	meet	customer	needs	from	the	standpoint	of		
key	sustainability	criteria.	We	believe	a	diversified	portfolio	helps	us	meet	our	customers’	electricity	needs	in	a	sustainable	way.

Note: Ratings for affordable, reliable, clean and jobs potential are based on plant footprint, internal knowledge and our experience in our service areas.  
External resources, where available, are cited below.

Type | Purpose

Affordable2

Reliable

Clean

Jobs Potential4

CO2
Emissions2

Water  
Required3

Waste Produced

Land Required

cleaner coal

Supercritical Pulverized, 
with Advanced Emissions 
Controls | Baseload1

Integrated Gasification 
Combined-Cycle (IGCC) |	
Baseload

nuclear

Baseload

natural gas

Simple-Cycle Combustion 
Turbine |	Peaking1

Combined-Cycle 
Combustion Turbine |	
Intermediate1

reneWables

High capital but low 
operating cost

High capital but low 
operating cost

High capital but low 
operating cost

low capital but high 
operating cost; volatile 
fuel cost

low capital but high 
operating cost; volatile 
fuel cost

potential for Co2 
sequestration 

Moderate Co2  
emissions

Moderate Co2  
emissions

Very small volume; 
recycling possible

Many jobs over a 
sustained period

Solar – Photovoltaic | 
Intermittent1

Very high capital but 
low operating cost

if sunlight is 
available

Wind	|	Intermittent

High capital but low 
operating cost

if wind is 
available

May use  
rooftops

Co-use possible

Mainly during 
development and 
construction

Hydro |	Peaking and 
Energy Storage

High capital but low 
operating cost

if water is 
available

large flows;  
negligible 
consumption

Biomass |	Baseload

High capital but low 
operating cost

energY efficiencY

Demand Response |	
Peaking

Conservation |	Baseload

low cost at low 
contribution; high cost 
at high contribution

low cost at low 
contribution; high cost 
at high contribution

Dependent 
on customer 
participation

Dependent 
on customer 
participation

1  power plants serve the following purposes: 

baseload - large power plants that operate continuously at near full load (except for maintenance)  
peaking - power plants that operate for short periods to meet spikes in demand
intermediate - power plants that operate between the extremes of baseload and peaking electric demand 
intermittent - power plants that are dependent on natural resource availability (sunlight, wind)

2  see Program on Technology Innovation: Integrated Generation Technology Options. epri, palo alto, Calif.: 2009. 1019539.  

3   see Thirsty Energy: Water and Energy in the 21st Century. World economic Forum, in partnership with Cambridge energy research associates: February 2009.  

4   includes development, construction, operations and maintenance jobs. see Task Force on America’s Future Energy Jobs. national Commission on energy policy: october 2009. 

More 
favorable

less 
favorable

12

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

	
 
	
 
	
	
	
	
emerging

issue life cYcle
developing

mature

What matters most

Duke	Energy’s	approach	to	sustainability	
focuses	on	the	issues	that	are	most	
material	to	our	stakeholders	and	to	us.	
This	table	represents	our	current	view	of	
our	most	material	issues	and	their	life	
cycle	phase.	The	issues	will	continue	to	
evolve	as	the	environment	in	which	we	
operate	changes.

issues of high concern 
to staKeholders and duKe energY

Affordable	and	reliable	energy
Air	emissions
Climate	change
Coal	ash
Economic	development/jobs
Employee	engagement	and	development
Energy	efficiency
Ethics
Mountaintop-removal	coal	mining
New	cleaner	coal	and	nuclear	generation
Nuclear	waste
Philanthropy/volunteerism
Protecting	natural	resources
Reduce,	reuse,	recycle
Renewables
Safety
Shareholder	return/financial	success
Smart	grid
Supply	chain
Water

duKe energY’s sustainabilitY filter©

We	created	this	“filter”	to	help	employees	view	each	decision	and	action	through	the	lens	of	sustainability.

1

connection
Understanding the big picture and the interrelationships  
between issues

		 Have	we	considered	the	financial,	environmental	and	social	

impacts	of	this	action/decision?	

		 Have	we	taken	potential	changes	in	the	external	environment,	

such	as	new	regulations,	into	account?	

		 Have	we	considered	this	action/decision	in	light	of	our	key	

stakeholders’	expectations	and	priorities?	Have	we	looked	for		
the	connections	between	issues?

		Have	we	examined	it	from	a	life	cycle/value	chain	perspective?	

2

efficiency
Using resources as efficiently as possible to save  
money and respect our planet’s limits

		 Does	this	action/decision	help	us	reduce	our	use	of	resources	–	

materials,	energy,	water,	etc.?	What	about	our	suppliers?	Customers?
		 Does	it	help	us	improve	our	performance	on	the	3Rs	of	solid	waste	

(reduce,	reuse,	recycle)?	What	about	suppliers?	Customers?

		 Does	this	action/decision	provide	us	an	opportunity	to	profit	from	

what	we	might	otherwise	throw	away?	

4

grandchildren
Anticipating how future generations will view the actions  
we take (or don’t take) today

3

balance
Developing solutions that effectively address  
competing interests

		 Have	we	looked	at	this	action/decision	through	the	eyes	of	future	

		 Does	this	action/decision	balance	our	stakeholders’	competing	

generations?

priorities?

		 Will	it	stand	the	test	of	time?		
		 Will	this	action/decision	contribute	to	long-term	shareholder	value?
		 Will	it	benefit,	or	at	least	not	harm,	society	and	the	environment?	

		 Does	this	action/decision	balance	“people,	planet	and	profits?”	

Can	we	develop	a	win-win-win	solution?	

		 Does	it	balance	short-term	and	long-term	needs?
		 Have	we	evaluated	purchases	and	performance	of	suppliers	

against	these	same	questions?

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T	

13

our sustainabilitY plan and goals

This	sustainability	plan	reflects	Duke	
Energy’s	commitment	to	operate	in	a	
way	that	is	good	for	people,	the	planet	
and	profits.	It	expands	on	the	company’s	
business	strategy	and	values.

This	plan	was	updated	and	simplified	
in	early	2010	based	on	stakeholder	
feedback.	Given	the	large	number	of		
goals,	we	now	categorize	them	as		
“corporate”	and	“departmental”	sustain-
ability	goals.	The	corporate	goals	focus		
on	areas	that	are	most	material	and/
or	provide	opportunities	to	engage	our	
employees	in	sustainability.	Other	key	
areas	being	managed	at	the	operating/
functional	level	are	included	as	depart-
mental	goals	and	metrics.

Given	stakeholder	preference	for	numeric	
targets,	all	qualitative	goals	in	last	year’s	
plan	have	now	been	retired.	In	many	
cases,	the	supporting	initiatives	continue.	
For	example,	we	continue	to	improve	ways	
to	transfer	critical	knowledge	as	employees	
retire	or	leave	the	company,	even	though	
this	is	no	longer	a	goal	in	the	plan.

All	goals	with	numeric	targets	from		
last	year’s	plan	have	been	retained		
and	now	appear	as	either	corporate		
or	departmental	goals.

Our	plan	and	goals	will	continue	to		
evolve	to	reflect	stakeholder	input	and		
our	changing	business	environment.

Web eXclusive content

	 Duke energy’s Management 
approach to sustainability

1

innovative products  
and services
Provide	innovative	products	and	
services	in	a	carbon-constrained,	
competitive	world

2

environmental  
footprint
Reduce	our	environmental	footprint

Why it matters:	Our	customers	want	products	
and	services	that	keep	them	competitive,		
yet	respond	to	environmental	concerns.

Why it matters:	As	an	energy	company,	we	
have	a	large	impact	on	the	environment	and	
depend	on	natural	resources	for	our	fuel.

neW

corporate sustainabilitY goals
Energy Efficiency:	Reduce	customer	
energy	consumption	by	2,500	
gigawatt-hours	and	peak	demand		
by	2,100	megawatts	(MW)	by	2013

neW Renewables:	Scale	up	to	3,000	MW	of	
wind,	solar	and	biomass	by	2020

neW	 Affordable and Reliable Energy:	

neW

neW

Maintain	rates	lower	than	the	national	
average	and	the	high	reliability	of	our	
generation	and	distribution	system,	as	
measured	by:
	 Nuclear	generation	capacity	factor
	 Fossil	generation	commercial	

availability

	 International	generation	equivalent	

availability

	 Average	customer	outage	frequency	

and	duration	

departmental goals and metrics
Smart	meters	installed	(p.	20)
Green	power	and	carbon	offset	
programs	–	customer	participation		
(p.	21)

Customer	satisfaction	survey	results	

corporate sustainabilitY goals
Carbon Emissions:	Reduce	or	offset	the	
carbon	dioxide	(CO2)	emissions	from	
our	U.S.	generation	fleet	17	percent	
from	2005	by	2020	(i.e.,	go	from	105	
million	tons	in	2005	to	87	million	tons	
in	2020)	
Carbon Intensity:	Reduce	the	carbon	
intensity	of	our	total	generation	fleet	
from	0.63	tons	of	CO2	per	megawatt-
hour	(MWh)	in	2005	to	0.50	tons	of	
CO2	per	MWh	by	2020		
Waste: Increase	the	percentage	of	solid	
waste	that	is	recycled	from	52	percent	
in	2008	to	62	percent	by	2012

2009 Status:	The	percentage	of	solid	
waste	recycled	was	55	percent;	we	are	
on	track	to	meet	the	2012	goal	(p.	29)

departmental goals and metrics
Generation	and	capacity		
by	fuel	type	(p.	27)

Fuels	consumed	for	U.S.		
electric	generation	(p.	27)

Water	withdrawn	and	consumed	(p.	27)

Emissions	from	generation	(p.	28)

U.S.	Toxic	Release	Inventory	(p.	28)

U.S.	on-road	and	off-road		
vehicle	fleet	emissions	and		
fuel	consumed	(p.	28)

U.S.	natural	gas	line		
leaks	repaired	(p.	29)

U.S.	coal	combustion	products		
beneficially	used	(p.	29)

Hazardous	waste	generated	(p.	29)

U.S.	low-level	radioactive	waste		
(class	B	and	C)	generated	(p.	29)

U.S.	electricity	consumed	(13	largest	
commercial	buildings)	(p.	29)

Reportable	oil	spills	(p.	29)

Environmental	regulatory	citations	(p.	29)

14

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

 
 
	
	
QualitY WorKforce
Attract,	develop	and	retain	a		
diverse,	high-quality	workforce

3

4

strong communities
Help	build	strong	communities

5

governance and 
transparencY
Be	profitable	and	demonstrate		
strong	governance	and	transparency

Why it matters:	Energy	companies	will	
be	differentiated	by	the	quality,	creativity		
and	customer	focus	of	their	employees.

Why it matters:	Our	success	is	linked	to	
the	health	and	prosperity	of	the	communities	
we	serve.

Why it matters:	Creating	shareholder	value	
and	earning	the	trust	and	confidence	of	our	
many	stakeholders	keeps	us	in	business.

neW

corporate sustainabilitY goals
Philanthropy: Develop	the	baseline	
number	of	lives	positively	impacted	by	
our	support	of	key	community	partners	
during	2010

neW

corporate sustainabilitY goals
Shareholder Return:	Outperform	
our	peers	in	total	shareholder		
return,	annually	and	over	a	three-	
year	period,	as	measured	by	the	
Philadelphia	Utility	Index

departmental goals and metrics
Economic	development	(jobs,		
capital	investment)	(p.	33)
Charitable	giving	(p.	34)

Global	Service	Event	statistics	(p.	35)

departmental goals and metrics
Financial	highlights	(p.	36)

DUKEPAC	contributions	

Diverse	supplier	spending	
Governance	ratings	(p.	38)
Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Index	(p.	2)

corporate sustainabilitY goals
Safety: Achieve	zero	work-related	
fatalities	and	top-decile	safety		
performance	in	total	incident	case		
rate	(TICR)	by	2012

2009 Status: Although	we	are	on	
track	to	be	top-decile	in	TICR	by		
2012,	we	did	not	meet	our	goal	of		
zero	work-related	fatalities	in	2009		   
Employee Engagement:	Maintain	
management	and	employee	engage-
ment	at	75	percent	and	64	percent,	
respectively,	or	higher,	as	measured	by	
favorable	scores	on	survey	questions

neW

departmental goals and metrics
Employee	lost	workday		
case	rate	(p.	31)
Contractor	TICR	(p.	31)

U.S.	generational	diversity	(p.	31)
Collective	bargaining	unit/union	
membership	(p.	32)
U.S.	ethnic	diversity	(p.	32)
U.S.	females	and	minorities	as	percent	
of	workforce/management	(p.	32)
U.S.	employee	turnover	(p.	32)
U.S.	percentage	of	employees	eligible	
to	retire	in	five/ten	years	(p.	32)

Employee	satisfaction	

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   O U R   S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y   P L A N   A N D   G O A L S

15

	
	
	
innovative products and services

1

challenges
  Keep rates affordable as we invest 
in the modernization of our system

  Enlist customers in our energy 

efficiency offerings

  Continue to mitigate the impact 
of customer switching in Ohio

opportunities
  Replace analog grid with a digital 

smart grid to increase reliability and 
energy efficiency, and reduce costs 

  Develop infrastructure to support 
widespread adoption of plug-in  
electric vehicles

2009 and earlY 2010 highlights
  Gained approval for energy efficiency 

regulatory model in N.C., S.C. and Ind.
  Added more than 360 megawatts of wind 
energy and launched solar power initiatives

  Negotiated first N.C. and S.C. nonfuel 

base-rate increases since 1991
  Began deploying smart grid in Ohio

in each of our five retail states, Duke energy is working 
to offer energy efficiency products and services that 
help customers conserve power and save money.

energy efficiency: 

making progress
Duke	Energy	
is	committed	
to	helping	
customers	
save	power	and	

money	through	
energy	efficiency.	The	
environment	also	benefits	

when	we	meet	growing	
customer	demand	without	

generating	more	electricity.

But	how	does	a	power	company	stay	
in	business	if	it	encourages	customers	
to	use	less	of	its	product?	In	2007,	we	
introduced	a	new	regulatory	model	for	
energy	efficiency.	Under	this	model,	
Duke	Energy	earns	a	return	on	its	invest-
ment	in	products	and	services	that	help	
customers	reduce	their	electric	consump-
tion.	In	addition,	we	get	paid	only	if	our	
energy	efficiency	programs	actually	help	
customers	conserve	power,	as	verified	by	
an	independent	third	party.

Under	the	traditional	regulatory	model,	
utilities	are	financially	rewarded	for	
building	power	plants	and	selling	
electricity.	Our	model	creates	the		
incentive	for	us	to	sell	less,	not	more,	
electricity,	and	helps	place	investments		
in	energy	efficiency	on	equal	footing		
with	investments	in	power	plants.

In	North	Carolina	and	South	Carolina,		
we	launched	new	energy	efficiency	
programs	in	June	2009	while	work	
continued	to	determine	the	appropriate	
way	to	compensate	us	for	our	efforts.	
Late	in	the	year,	the	North	Carolina	
Utilities	Commission	approved	our	energy	
efficiency	model.	In	January	2010,		
South	Carolina	regulators	approved	the	
model	as	part	of	our	base-rate	case.

We	continue	to	roll	out	energy	efficiency	
programs	in	Ohio,	where	our	model	was	
approved	in	December	2008.	In	February	
2010,	Indiana	regulators	granted	us	
permission	to	implement	energy	efficiency	
programs.	However,	a	December	2009	
order	that	applies	to	all	utilities	operating	

in	the	state	limits	the	number	of	energy	
efficiency	offers	that	are	eligible	for		
incentive	earnings.

In	January	2010,	we	withdrew	our	energy	
efficiency	proposal	in	Kentucky.	We	based	
this	proposal	on	data	and	programs	devel-
oped	a	year	before	we	filed	our	original	
application	in	2008.	Since	then,	we	have	
begun	to	develop	and	test	new	programs	
in	states	where	we	already	have	approval	
for	our	energy	efficiency	model.	Rather	
than	continue	to	seek	approval	of	an	
older	portfolio	of	programs,	we	withdrew	
our	application	to	update	our	approach.	
(Kentucky	customers	may	still	participate	
in	basic	energy	efficiency	programs	that	
have	been	in	place	for	several	years.)

We	have	learned	several	important	lessons	
in	developing	and	proposing	our	energy	
efficiency	model.	Changing	a	regula-
tory	framework	that	has	been	in	place	
for	decades	does	not	occur	overnight.	
Stakeholder	education	and	input	is	also	
critical.	While	everyone	agreed	on	the	
importance	of	energy	efficiency,	some	

16

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

stakeholders	felt	our	goals	were	not	
aggressive	enough.	In	response,	we	
increased	our	energy	efficiency	program	
targets.	Others	expressed	concern	that	
we	could	earn	more	than	a	fair	return	on	
our	investment,	so	we	created	earnings	
caps	tied	to	actual	energy	savings.	In	the	
end,	our	success	depends	on	our	ability	
to	clearly	communicate	how	our	programs	
help	customers	save	energy	and	money	
without	sacrificing	comfort,	convenience		
or	reliability.

balancing the challenging economy  
with the need to raise rates
Seeking	an	increase	to	the	base	rates		
our	customers	pay	for	electric	and	gas	
services	is	never	an	easy	decision	for		
Duke	Energy	–	especially	given	the	state	
of	the	economy.	However,	we	must	
continue	to	invest	in	modernizing	our	
system,	building	cleaner	power	plants	and	
installing	pollution	control	equipment.	As		
a	result,	we	pursued	base-rate	increases		
in	several	of	our	service	territories	in	2009	
to	recover	these	costs.

Our	goal	was	to	align	rates	and	actual	
expenses	while	keeping	in	mind	the	
economic	challenges	facing	customers	
today.	We	collaborated	with	regulators,	
customer	groups	and	other	parties	to	reach	
the	following	outcomes,	which	we	believe	
strike	a	fair	balance:

In	December	2009,	the	North	Carolina	
Utilities	Commission	approved	an	8	
percent	average	base-rate	increase,		
to	be	phased	in	over	two	years.	This	
is	Duke	Energy	Carolinas’	first	nonfuel	
base-rate	increase	in	North	Carolina	
since	1991,	following	a	nonfuel	base-
rate	reduction	in	2008.

	 The	Public	Service	Commission	of	
South	Carolina	granted	an	average	
nonfuel	base-rate	increase	of	5.2	
percent	in	January	2010,	to	be		
phased	in	over	three	years.	As	in		
North	Carolina,	this	is	Duke	Energy	
Carolinas’	first	nonfuel	base-rate	
increase	since	1991.

In	mid-2009,	the	Public	Utilities	
Commission	of	Ohio	(PUCO)	approved	
an	electric	distribution	rate	increase	of	
approximately	3	percent	of	the	total	bill	
for	residential	customers.	Distribution	
charges	are	one	component	of	the	
total	bill	and	cover	the	cost	of	building,	
operating	and	maintaining	the	system	
that	delivers	electricity.

	 The	Kentucky	Public	Service	

Commission	approved	an	increase		
for	natural	gas	delivery	service	of	10.4	
percent	on	total	gas	revenues,	effective	
early	2010.	This	rate	change,	the	first	
since	2006,	enables	the	company	to	
recover	costs	of	the	Accelerated	Main	
Replacement	Program,	a	major	gas	
reliability	and	safety	initiative.	

These	base-rate	increases	will	help	us	
provide	cleaner	and	more	reliable	energy.	
Rates	that	are	better	aligned	with	our	
expenses	also	allow	us	to	maintain	our	
strong	financial	position,	which	in	turn	
keeps	the	cost	of	borrowing	money	low.	
We	continue	to	aggressively	manage	our	
costs	so	our	rates	remain	affordable	and	
compare	favorably	with	national	averages.	
We	also	continue	to	offer	energy	efficiency	
programs	to	help	customers	use	less	
power	and	save	money.	

competition in ohio
In	Ohio’s	competitive	electricity	market,	
customers	are	free	to	switch	generation	
suppliers.	This	is	different	from	the	tradi-
tional	regulated	markets	of	the	Carolinas,	
Indiana	and	Kentucky,	where	customers	
are	served	by	the	electric	generation	
provider	assigned	to	their	area.

Although	the	Ohio	market	has	been	
competitive	since	2001,	Duke	Energy	Ohio	
historically	experienced	limited	customer	
switching	due	largely	to	its	attractive	
generation	rates.	However,	with	the	weak	
economy,	there	is	excess	generation	and	
lower	prices	in	the	wholesale	market.	This	
has	resulted	in	increased	switching	activity	
in	Duke	Energy	Ohio’s	service	territory.	
As	a	regulated	utility,	Duke	Energy	Ohio’s	
generation	rates	are	set	until	the	end	of	
2011,	pursuant	to	the	Electric	Security	
Plan	established	by	the	PUCO.

Duke	Energy	Retail	Sales	(DERS)	–		
the	company’s	competitive	retail	electric	
generation	provider	–	has	begun	to	offer	
customers	savings	as	well.	DERS		
provides	electric	generation	service		
to	both	residential	and	nonresidential	
customers	throughout	the	state.

Duke	Energy	Ohio	continues	to	serve	as	
its	customers’	power	distribution	provider,	
regardless	of	which	entity	they	choose	for	
their	electric	generation.

COMPARISON OF AVERAGE ELECTRIC RATES (CENTS PER KILOWATT-HOUR)1

10

8

6

4

2

0

North Carolina

South Carolina

Indiana

Ohio

Kentucky

U.S. Avg.

  = Duke Energy  

= State Average 

= National Average

1   Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average Rates Report, June 30, 2009.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   I N N O V A T I V E   P R O D U C T S   A N D   S E R V I C E S

17

	
	
to	power	the	equivalent	of	about	1,300	
homes.	The	company	pays	a	rental	fee	to	
selected	customers	who	host	the	panels	on	
their	property.	Customer	sites	are	chosen	
based	on	access	to	the	electrical	grid	and	
solar	productivity	potential.

This	effort	helps	us	comply	with	North	
Carolina’s	Renewable	Energy	and	Energy	
Efficiency	portfolio	standard,	which	includes	
a	special	provision	to	promote	the	develop-
ment	of	solar	power	generation.	We’ll	also	
use	the	program	to	demonstrate	the	value	
and	test	the	management	of	“distributed	
generation,”	which	is	electricity	produced	
close	to	where	customers	use	it,	rather	than	
at	large,	centralized	power	plants.	

Purchasing	solar	power	is	another	way	we	
are	meeting	customer	demand	for	renew-
able	energy.	We	began	buying	4	MW	of	
energy	from	a	new	solar	photovoltaic	farm	
in	Davidson	County,	N.C.,	in	late	2009.	
Once	complete,	the	solar	farm	will	generate	
approximately	16	MW	of	electricity	for		
Duke	Energy	customers	–	or	enough	to	
power	about	2,600	homes.

We	are	also	purchasing	renewable	energy	
credits	from	FLS	Energy,	a	North	Carolina	
company	that	uses	solar	energy	to	produce	
hot	water	at	customer	sites	throughout	
the	state.	This	is	known	as	thermal	solar	
energy.	FLS	Energy	projects	that	the	
partnership	with	Duke	Energy	will	result		
in	the	installation	of	more	than	3,000	solar	
collectors	on	schools,	businesses,	universi-
ties	and	residential	developments	across	
North	Carolina	by	2013.	This	partnership	
will	also	create	clean-energy	jobs.

Duke	Energy	entered	the	commercial		
solar	power	business	in	January	2010,		
with	the	acquisition	of	the	14-MW	Blue	
Wing	solar	photovoltaic	project	under	
development	in	San	Antonio,	Texas.	When	
complete	in	late	2010,	the	project’s	
214,500	ground-mounted	photovoltaic	
panels	will	supply	clean	energy	to	CPS	
Energy,	one	of	the	largest	municipally	
owned	utilities	in	the	U.S.

pronghorn antelope graze on the prairie land at Duke energy’s Campbell Hill Windpower project near Casper, Wyo.

renewable energy business  
gaining momentum
Duke	Energy	continues	to	invest	heavily		
in	renewable	power.	In	2009,	we	grew		
our	commercial	renewable	energy		
business	and	made	strides	in	our	efforts		
to	bring	renewables	to	our	regulated	
service	territories.

a banner Year for Wind energy
We	added	364	megawatts	(MW)	of	wind	
energy	to	our	renewable	power	portfolio		
in	2009.	Specifically,	we:
	 Brought	on	line	the	153-MW	Notrees	

Windpower	Project	in	Ector	and	
Winkler	counties,	Texas;	the	42-MW	
Silver	Sage	Windpower	Project	in	
Cheyenne,	Wyo.;	and	the	99-MW	
Campbell	Hill	Windpower	Project		
near	Casper,	Wyo.

	 Acquired	and	brought	into	commercial	
operation	the	70-MW	North	Allegheny	
Windpower	Project	in	Blair	and	
Cambria	counties,	Pa.,	roughly		
95	miles	east	of	Pittsburgh.

In	2010,	we	will	build	the	51-MW	Kit	
Carson	Windpower	Project	near	Burlington,	
Colo.,	and	the	200-MW	Top	of	the	World	
Windpower	Project	near	Casper,	Wyo.

We	concluded	2009	with	735	MW	of	
wind	power	in	commercial	operation.		

We	have	committed	more	than	$1	billion	
to	our	wind	power	business	since	its	
launch	in	2007.

In	September	2009,	Duke	Energy	
Carolinas	also	signed	an	agreement	with	
the	University	of	North	Carolina	(UNC)	
at	Chapel	Hill	to	construct	up	to	three	
demonstration	wind	turbines	in	the	
Pamlico	Sound,	between	the	mainland	
and	the	state’s	Outer	Banks.

These	demonstration	wind	turbines	will	
test	public	support	for	offshore	wind	power	
in	North	Carolina	and	could	be	among	the	
first	placed	in	waters	off	the	U.S.	coast.	
Under	the	agreement,	Duke	Energy	will	
supply	and	install	the	wind	turbines.	UNC	
will	conduct	research	to	gauge	the	feasi-
bility	of	generating	electricity	from	offshore	
wind	farms.

making progress on solar power
In	May	2009,	Duke	Energy	received	
regulatory	approval	to	invest	approximately	
$50	million	to	install	solar	photovoltaic	
panels	on	the	roofs	and	properties	of	
customers	in	our	North	Carolina	service	
territory.	The	program	is	under	way	and	
several	of	the	initial	projects	have	been	
completed.	Duke	Energy	will	eventually	
own	and	operate	8	MW	of	solar	energy	
capacity	through	the	program	–	enough		

18

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

	
Duke energy’s regulated and commercial businesses 
are investing in clean, renewable solar energy.

aDaGe biopower plants are designed to convert 
sustainable woody biomass into electricity.

biopower: turning Wood Waste into electricity
Biopower	is	created	when	plant-derived,	
organic	material	–	often	called	biomass	–		
is	burned	to	generate	electricity.	The	
American	Council	on	Renewable	Energy,	
the	United	Nations	Intergovernmental	
Panel	on	Climate	Change,	the	
Environmental	Protection	Agency	and	
other	organizations	regard	biopower	as	
carbon-neutral,	because	carbon	dioxide	is	
absorbed	by	new	plantings	as	they	grow.

,	the	biopower	joint	venture	

ADAGE	
we	own	with	AREVA,	continues	to	make	
progress	on	its	plans	to	build,	own	and	
operate	woody	biomass-to-electricity	
plants	in	the	U.S.	In	2009,	ADAGE	began	
the	permitting	process	to	build	a	55-MW	
biopower	plant	in	Florida,	fueled	by	clean	
wood	byproducts	sourced	locally.	

In	February	2010,	ADAGE	announced	
an	alliance	with	John	Deere	to	bring	
technology	and	process	innovation	to	
biomass	collection	in	the	United	States.	
The	first	project	will	be	a	proposed	55-MW	
facility	80	miles	west	of	Seattle,	Wash.	

The	plant	will	provide	enough	power	for	
more	than	40,000	homes.	ADAGE	will	
operate	the	plant,	and	John	Deere	will	
provide	the	equipment	needed	to	collect,	
bundle	and	transport	wood	debris	to	
the	facility.	The	company	expects	plant	
construction	to	begin	in	late	2010.	

Two	key	benefits	of	biopower	sector	growth	
are	job	creation	and	economic	activity.	For	
example,	the	initial	$250	million	invest-
ment	in	ADAGE’s	proposed	Washington	
plant	is	expected	to	create	more	than	400	
construction	jobs,	as	well	as	more	than	
100	permanent	jobs	once	the	facility	
is	operational.	ADAGE	estimates	that	a	
biopower	plant	can	generate	approximately	
$100	million	in	direct	economic	benefits	
for	a	region	in	less	than	three	years.

duke energy partners with  
chinese companies to accelerate  
clean-energy development
Duke	Energy	forged	two	strategic	alliances	
with	Chinese	energy	companies	in	2009	
to	help	us	scale	up	and	commercialize	
clean-energy	technologies	more	rapidly.		

Keith trent, Duke energy group executive and 
Commercial businesses president, with enn  
Chief scientist Gan Zhongxue in beijing, China.

In	August	2009,	we	committed	to	work	
with	Huaneng	Group,	China’s	largest	
electric	utility,	to	explore	a	variety	of	
renewable	and	other	clean-energy	
technologies.	We	announced	a	similar	
arrangement	with	ENN	Group,	one	of	
China’s	largest	privately	held,	diversified	
energy	companies,	in	September	2009.	
One	month	later	in	Beijing,	Duke	Energy	
and	ENN	signed	an	agreement	to	jointly	
develop	commercial	solar	power	projects	
in	the	U.S.	

Through	this	agreement,	both	companies	
will	contribute	capital,	project	development	
expertise	and	technical	know-how	to	meet	
rising	customer	demand	for	renewable	
energy.

,	a	Boston-

The	Clean	Air	Task	Force	
based	environmental	organization,	played	
a	key	role	in	helping	us	develop	relation-
ships	with	Huaneng	and	ENN.	These	
partnerships	represent	the	type	of	global	
collaboration	that	is	needed	to	achieve	
economies	of	scale	and	drive	down	the	
cost	of	clean-energy	technologies	for	a	
carbon-constrained	world.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   I N N O V A T I V E   P R O D U C T S   A N D   S E R V I C E S

19

reneWable poWer progress

Q&a

Wouter van Kempen | president, Duke energy 
Generation services

Duke Energy continues to invest heavily in power 
generation from renewable resources. In the following 
Q&A, Wouter van Kempen discusses opportunities 
and obstacles associated with renewable power.

Q.  What is driving the development of  
renewable power in the u.s., and  
what is working against it?

a.  Factors fueling growth in renewable power 

include mandates by many states to boost electric 
generation from renewable sources, potential 
federal climate change legislation and a sense  
of competition with the rest of the world – 
especially europe and China.

Without question, federal stimulus dollars,  
tax credits and incentives, and loan guarantee 
programs have accelerated renewable energy 
sector growth in recent years. lower costs for 
renewables in turn spurred demand. but what 
happens if some of these incentives disappear? 
How will delays in adopting new u.s. energy and 
climate policies affect momentum in the renew-
ables markets? these are some of the current 
concerns in the industry.

at the local level, renewable power project devel-
opers sometimes encounter niMbys – community 
members who may want clean energy, but “not 

in my backyard.” it’s critical to engage the 
community early in the development process  
to explain project plans and to hear and  
address concerns.

Q.  What is duke energy’s business model for  
its commercial renewables business? 
a.  although we occasionally make strategic acqui-
sitions of renewable energy projects already 
under development, our model is to build, own 
and operate projects. another important distinc-
tion about our renewables business model: We 
typically sign 20-year or longer power purchase 
agreements with regional utilities, municipalities 
or cooperatives that want to buy the electricity 
we produce. these wholesale customers benefit 
by locking in a set price, and we secure a steady 
revenue stream.

Q.  how do you intend to grow the biopower  

and solar businesses?

a.  aDaGe, Duke energy’s joint biopower venture 

with areVa, has unique advantages. unlike wind 
and solar power, electricity from wood waste 
can be produced around the clock. the biopower 
sector also creates a lot of jobs, whereas wind 
and solar farms require fewer employees once 
they’re operational. these are all selling points 
for aDaGe. one difficulty is that no states with 
renewable energy portfolio standards specifi-
cally require utilities to add biopower generation. 
nevertheless, we’re seeing increased interest  
in biopower in many parts of the country – 
particularly the southeast and northwest.

We plan to pattern our new commercial 
photovoltaic solar business after our wind 
power business. naturally, we’ll consider 
potential acquisitions of solar projects if they 
make strategic sense, as was the case with our 
purchase of the 14-megawatt blue Wing solar 
project in texas in early 2010. our business 
model, however, is predicated on developing, 
owning and operating solar energy projects. 
When it makes sense for both companies, we’ll 
develop u.s. solar projects together with China-
based enn Group, based on an agreement we 
signed with them in october 2009.

For more Q&As with Wouter van Kempen, please 
visit the Innovative Products and Services section  
of our Sustainability Report online. 

smart grid: enabling affordable, 
reliable and clean energy
Building	a	smarter	power	grid	is	an	
essential	part	of	our	efforts	to	provide	
customers	with	affordable,	reliable	
and	increasingly	clean	energy.	To		
help	accomplish	this	goal,	we	plan		
to	invest	up	to	$1	billion	over	the		
next	five	years	to	continue	modern-
izing	our	power	delivery	system.

“Smart	grid”	refers	to	the	digital	
modernization	of	energy	delivery.	By	
adding	digital,	two-way	communica-
tion	capabilities	to	our	power	lines,	
we	can	boost	efficiency,	help	reduce	
demand,	and	improve	reliability	and	
customer	service.

For	example,	smart	grid	technologies:
	 Allow	us	to	read	meters	and	fulfill	
requests	for	service	connections	
and	disconnections	remotely

	 Help	reduce	outages	through	new	
“self-healing	networks”	made	up	
of	digital	sensors	and	switches	
that	automatically	reroute	power	
when	a	problem	occurs

	 Provide	customers	with	additional	
information	that	may	help	them	
use	energy	more	efficiently,	save	
money	and	reduce	their	carbon	
footprint.

Duke	Energy	received	regulatory	
approval	in	late	2008	to	implement	
smart	grid	technology	in	Ohio.	In	
2008	and	2009,	we	installed	approx-
imately	60,000	smart	electric	meters,	
40,000	smart	gas	meters	and	4,000	
communication	nodes	in	the	state.	
When	our	five-year	rollout	in	Ohio	is	
complete,	we’ll	have	approximately	
700,000	smart	electric	and	450,000	
smart	gas	meters	in	service.

We	are	retooling	our	smart	grid	
proposal	in	Indiana	after	the	state	
utility	regulatory	commission	rejected	
our	initial	plan	in	November	2009.	In	
the	Carolinas,	we	continue	with	pilot	
installations.	Our	smart	grid	efforts	

20

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

 
 
 
Duke	Energy;	we	do	not	profit	from		
these	initiatives.

Our	green	power	programs	provide	a	
simple,	convenient	option	for	customers	
who,	through	their	monthly	electric	bill,	
want	to	contribute	to	a	cleaner	environ-
ment.	Their	participation	supports	invest-
ment	in	clean-energy	sources	like	wind,	
solar,	biomass	and	hydroelectric.	We	offer	
green	power	programs	in	the	Carolinas,	
Indiana	and	Ohio.	However,	at	the	end	
of	2009,	less	than	1	percent	of	our	
customers	were	enrolled.

By	purchasing	carbon	offsets,	customers	
can	balance	carbon	dioxide	emissions	
produced	by	their	everyday	activities.	For	
example,	Indiana	residential	customers	
can	balance	their	average	monthly	electric	
consumption	–	typically	about	1,000	
kilowatt-hours	–	by	purchasing	four	carbon	
offsets	through	Duke	Energy	for	$16	
per	month.	We	also	have	carbon	offset	
programs	in	North	Carolina	and	South	
Carolina.	As	of	December	2009,	230	
customers	were	enrolled	in	our	carbon	
offset	programs	in	these	three	states.

green poWer and carbon offset programs – customer participation
State Programs 

Ind.	GoGreen

N.C.	GreenPower

Customers

Blocks1/Month

Customers

12/07

1,156

3,520

7,190

12/08

1,482

4,432

7,775

12/09

1,486

4,561

7,102

Blocks1/Month

11,884

11,505

10,361

Ohio	GoGreen	(launched	7/07)

Customers

Blocks1/Month

S.C.	Palmetto	Clean	Energy	(launched	2/08)

Customers

Blocks1/Month

N.C.	Carbon	Offsets	(launched	7/08)

Customers

S.C.	Carbon	Offsets	(launched	8/08)

Ind.	Carbon	Offsets	(launched	9/09)

1  one block equals 100 kilowatt-hours of green energy.
2  one block equals 500 pounds of carbon reduction.

Blocks2/Month

Customers

Blocks2/Month

Customers

Blocks2/Month

255

855

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

384

1,379

472

1,900

39

45

125

188

3

5

n/a

n/a

54

58

212

353

3

4

15

44

power reliability: always a priority 

potential Game-Changing technologies 

We’re investing up to $1 billion over the next five years 
in smart grid technologies.

began	in	the	Midwest	because	our	electric	
meters	in	the	Carolinas	were	upgraded	
more	recently.

In	2009,	the	U.S.	Department	of	Energy	
(DOE)	awarded	us	$200	million	under	the	
American	Recovery	and	Reinvestment	Act	
to	support	our	smart	grid	projects	in	the	
Midwest,	and	another	$4	million	toward	
our	smart	grid	efforts	in	the	Carolinas.		
We	continue	to	work	with	the	DOE	on	
finalizing	the	terms	of	the	grant	contracts.

choosing green power
Although	we	continue	to	offer	customers	
options	for	supporting	“green”	power	and	
purchasing	carbon	offsets,	participation	
in	these	programs	remains	low.	The	green	
power	programs	are	structured	so	that	
customer	contributions	pass	through		

Web eXclusive content

	 rogers enters energy efficiency Hall of Fame
	 our power partners: efficiency and innovation

Customer satisfaction survey results 

Video: self-Healing network

Video: envision smart energy

Video: Distributed solar energy

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   I N N O V A T I V E   P R O D U C T S   A N D   S E R V I C E S

21

	
	
	
	
	
	
environmental footprint

2

challenges
  Supply affordable and reliable energy while minimizing 

our impact on the environment

  Monitor, influence and prepare for potential new rules 

that could impact our use of coal

  Manage the construction costs of Edwardsport IGCC, a 

first-of-its-kind integrated gasification combined-cycle power plant

opportunities
  Retire and replace older fossil-fueled units with new, cleaner generation
  Encourage U.S. energy policy that benefits the environment and economy
  Reduce demand through energy efficiency programs and products
  Partner with stakeholders to better manage water resources

2009 and earlY 2010 highlights
  Made significant progress on building Cliffside and 

Edwardsport advanced-coal units

  Formed clean-energy alliance to explore potential 

for new nuclear station in Ohio

  Created partnerships with leading Chinese energy companies 

on renewable and clean-coal technologies

  Reduced sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions 
71% and 56%, respectively, over the last four years

  Remained on track to achieve our environmental footprint reduction goals

rocky mountain institute  
helps duke energy refine  
2030 carbon reduction vision

Adapted from “Unlikely Partners: RMI  
and Duke Energy Work Together on  
Clean Energy,” by Llewellyn Wells, in  
the Fall 2009 edition of Rocky Mountain 
Institute’s Solutions Journal. Wells is  
RMI’s vice president of Outreach.

Duke	Energy	is	the	third-largest	carbon	
emitter	in	the	U.S.	–	a	dubious	distinction	
if	you	believe,	as	CEO	Jim	Rogers	does,	
that	society	needs	and	will	eventually	
require	big	carbon	reductions.

Duke	Energy’s	carbon	footprint	is	driven		
by	its	heavy	dependence	on	coal.	But	
while	burning	coal	is	one	of	the	biggest	
contributors	to	climate	change,	it	has	also	
allowed	Duke	Energy	to	provide	low-cost,	
reliable	electricity	to	11	million	people	in	
the	five	states	it	serves.

To	address	this	monumental	challenge	
and	strengthen	the	company’s	strategy	
for	meeting	customer	needs	in	a	carbon-
constrained	world,	Rogers	challenged	his	
team	to	reduce	the	company’s	carbon	
emissions	50	percent	by	2030.	And	

Duke	Energy’s	leaders	responded.	They	
wanted	expert	insights	on	the	problem,	so	
in	addition	to	their	own	team,	they	went	
looking	for	thought	leadership	outside	the	
company.

Enter	Rocky	Mountain	Institute.	Through	
conversations	between	Rogers	and	Amory	
Lovins,	RMI’s	chairman	and	chief	scientist,	
it	became	clear	that	Duke’s	interests	and	
RMI’s	research	and	consulting	work	were	
complementary.

The	new	collaboration	took	some	getting	
used	to.	Duke	executives	wondered	if	RMI	
really	understood	the	challenges	utilities	
face	and	would	be	able	to	offer	realistic,	
pragmatic	ideas.	Similarly,	RMI’s	team	
wondered	whether	Duke	Energy	was		
really	open	to	new	ideas	and	change.	
These	doubts	and	preconceptions	aside,		
it	quickly	became	apparent	the	two	organi-
zations	were	united	by	the	same	goal:	a	
major	reduction	in	carbon	emissions.

By	taking	a	scenario	planning	approach,	
the	team	painted	several	pictures	of	how	
the	future	might	unfold	–	and	how	Duke	
might	best	respond	to	each.	Each	scenario	
reflected	a	combination	of	possible	trends:

	 How	engaged	customers	will	be	in	

their	electricity	usage

	 How	costs	might	trend	for	different	

technologies,	and

	 Whether	key	technological	develop-
ments,	such	as	carbon	capture	and	
sequestration,	develop	or	not.

The	team	looked	at	the	potential	and	costs	
of	a	number	of	low-carbon	resources,	
including	energy	efficiency,	wind,	solar,	
biomass,	nuclear,	and	carbon	capture	
and	sequestration.	While	each	of	those	
resources	has	significant	potential,	each	
has	its	own	risks	and	costs.	Duke	Energy’s	
heightened	understanding	of	the	various	
scenarios	is	helping	the	company	adjust	its	
strategy	based	on	changing	conditions.

“[Our	work	with	RMI]	has	helped	us	
identify	key	signposts	associated	with	
various	scenarios,”	said	Doug	Esamann,	
Duke’s	senior	vice	president	of	Corporate	
Strategy.	“That	gives	us	options.	We	
are	still	laying	these	options	out	in	an	
appropriate	plan.	We	have	bits	and	pieces	
already	embedded.	Continuing	to	make	it	a	
connected,	cohesive	plan	is	the	challenge	
in	the	face	of	an	uncertain	future.”

22

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

u.s. energY and environmental policY

Q.   how likely is it that the u.s. congress will 
take action on climate change in 2010?
a.   three u.s. senators representing a diver-

Q.  Why is federal legislation  

preferable to epa rulemaking?

a.   Congress can create a carbon reduction program 

sity of views – senators Graham, Kerry and 
lieberman – are actively trying to develop a 
bipartisan approach that could secure the 60 
votes needed for the passage of a bill in the 
senate. regardless, this issue is not going away. 
We expect Congress or the u.s. environmental 
protection agency (epa) to regulate carbon 
emissions as early as 2011.

that encourages industry to identify and implement 
new energy technologies, minimizes the financial 
burden on consumers and our economy, and creates 
rather than eliminates u.s. jobs. the epa simply 
does not have the flexibility or tools in the Clean air 
act to create this kind of program, and has even 
acknowledged that legislation is the best way to 
tackle the issue.

Q.   What role is the epa playing in  

regulating carbon?

a.   in late 2009, the epa issued an “endangerment 
finding” that characterizes greenhouse gases 
like carbon dioxide as a threat to public health 
and welfare. the agency is expected to issue 
greenhouse gas standards for automobiles by 
mid-2010. these two acts will trigger permitting 
requirements for stationary sources of carbon 
dioxide – such as power plants – under the  
new source review and operating permit  
provisions of the Clean air act. However, the 
epa has already indicated that it will delay 
implementation of these permitting requirements 
until at least 2011, and perhaps beyond. 

Q.  What does duke energy need most  
from national energy policy reform?
a.  We need a coherent and workable domestic 

energy policy – one that allows us to modernize 
and decarbonize our power generation fleet while 
still delivering affordable and reliable energy. 
power plants are expensive and often require long 
lead-times for construction. this is true for plants 
fueled by uranium, coal, gas and even some types 
of renewable resources. the choices we make today 
must stand the test of time, so clear “rules of the 
road” are essential to help us make sound long-term 
decisions. Given the stake we have in energy policy, 
we will continue to engage constructively in the 
debate to help protect the interests of both our 
customers and investors.

Q&a

bill tyndall | senior Vice president,
Federal Government and regulatory affairs

What’s in store for U.S. energy and environmental 
policy? In this Q&A, Bill Tyndall discusses the 
potential for federal regulation of carbon dioxide.

In	addition	to	making	the	right	invest-
ment	decisions,	Duke	must	maintain	
reliable	service	no	matter	how	the	
future	unfolds	–	and	that	means	
matching	electricity	generation	to	
demand,	exactly,	at	every	second.		
That	becomes	increasingly	difficult		
as	variable	resources	like	wind	and	
solar	power	are	added	to	the	grid.

Nevertheless,	Duke	Energy’s	
low-carbon	efforts	are	ongoing.	
Stephen	Doig,	RMI	Vice	President		
and	electricity	program	leader	is	
optimistic.	“[Duke’s	team]	is	as	good	
as	any	I’ve	ever	worked	with,”	he	said.	
“My	hope	is	that	our	work	with	Duke	
will	help	them	have	the	confidence	
to	push	further	and	faster	on	their	
low-carbon	strategy.”

duke energy generates carbon offsets 
through the planting of 1 million trees
In	2009,	Duke	Energy	became	the	lead	
investor	in	GreenTrees	
,	a	program	that	
aims	to	generate	carbon	offsets	through	
the	reforestation	of	1	million	acres	in	the	
Lower	Mississippi	Alluvial	Valley.

The	valley	is	the	nation’s	largest	water-
shed	and	covers	about	25	million	acres	
in	Louisiana,	Mississippi,	Arkansas,	
Kentucky,	Tennessee,	Missouri	and	Illinois.	
More	than	80	percent	of	the	valley,	once	
mostly	forest	and	emergent	wetlands,	has	
been	cleared	for	farming,	resulting	in	the	
loss	of	natural	habitat.	Our	initial	invest-
ment	funded	the	planting	of	more	than		
1	million	trees	on	approximately	1,700	
acres	in	Arkansas.

GreenTrees	transforms	open	and	marginal	
farmland	into	a	sustainable	ecosystem	that	
captures	large	quantities	of	carbon	dioxide	
(CO2),	creates	habitat	for	wildlife,	and	
benefits	landowners	who	commit	to	the	
long-term	reforestation	of	their	property.

GreenTrees	plants	302	cottonwood	and	
302	hardwood	trees	per	acre.	The	fast-
growing	cottonwoods	create	a	canopy		
that	encourages	hardwood	growth,	turning	
the	land	into	a	forest	setting	in	three	to		
five	years.

We	expect	our	GreenTrees	investment	to	
generate	high-quality,	verifiable	carbon	
offsets	that	may	help	reduce	our	cost	of	
compliance	with	potential	federal	climate	
change	legislation.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   E N V I R O N M E N T A L   F O O T P R I N T

23

‘stroke of the pen’ risks persist
In	addition	to	climate	change,	a		
number	of	legislative,	regulatory	and		
legal	issues	–	what	we	call	“stroke	of		
the	pen”	risks	–	could	require	us	to		
retrofit	or	retire	thousands	of	megawatts		
of	coal-fired	generation,	beyond	what	we	
are	already	planning.

air emissions
The	U.S.	Environmental	Protection	
Agency	(EPA)	continues	to	work	on	a	rule	
to	replace	the	Clean	Air	Mercury	Rule	
(CAMR),	which	has	been	vacated.	The	
EPA	is	also	working	on	a	rule	to	replace	
the	Clean	Air	Interstate	Rule	(CAIR),	which	
was	initially	vacated	by	the	U.S.	Court	of	
Appeals	for	the	District	of	Columbia	Circuit	
and	then	reinstated	as	an	interim	solution	
until	the	EPA	develops	a	new	rule.	CAMR	
sought	to	introduce	new	limitations	on	
mercury	emissions	from	coal-fired	plants	
across	the	U.S.,	while	CAIR	focuses	on	
nitrogen	oxides	(NOx)	and	sulfur	dioxide	
(SO2)	emissions	in	28	eastern	states	and	
the	District	of	Columbia.	The	EPA	expects	
to	finalize	both	new	rules	in	2011.

coal ash
An	ash	dike	failure	at	a	Tennessee	Valley	
Authority	plant	in	December	2008	acceler-
ated	the	EPA’s	development	of	federal	coal	
ash	management	regulations.	Coal	ash	
management	is	currently	addressed	by	
varying	state	regulations.	Duke	Energy	has	
a	comprehensive	monitoring,	maintenance	
and	inspection	program	in	place,	and	
remains	committed	to	managing	coal	ash	
and	other	coal	combustion	byproducts	in	
a	manner	that	protects	human	health	and	
the	environment.

A	key	uncertainty,	however,	is	whether	the	
EPA’s	forthcoming	regulation	will	seek	to	
reverse	its	2000	determination	that	coal	
ash	is	not	a	hazardous	waste.	The	EPA	
has	indicated	that	it	will	propose	the		
new	rule	in	April	2010.	The	rule	could		
be	finalized	in	late	2010	or	early	2011.

Water intake
The	EPA	continues	to	work	on	revising	
regulations	for	existing	facilities	under	

Section	316(b)	of	the	Clean	Water	Act,	
which	requires	the	location,	design,	
construction	and	capacity	of	cooling	
water	intake	structures	to	reflect	the	best	
technology	available.	The	purpose	of	this	
revised	regulation	is	to	protect	aquatic	life	
in	rivers,	lakes	and	oceans	from	being	
affected	by	cooling	water	intake	structures.	
These	structures	are	commonly	used	
by	steam	electric	power	plants,	paper	
producers,	petroleum	refiners,	chemical	
plants,	and	manufacturers	of	primary	
metals	like	iron,	steel	and	aluminum.	
Potential	revision	of	this	regulation	could	
require	significant	modifications	at	our	
coal-fired	and	nuclear	power	plants	with	
“once-through	cooling”	systems.	In	a		
once-through	cooling	system,	water	is	
diverted	from	a	body	of	water,	used	for	
cooling	and	then	returned	to	the	source.

mountaintop-removal coal mining
The	practice	of	mountaintop-removal	
coal	mining	continues	to	be	debated.	
Mountaintop-removal	coal	mining	is	a	
form	of	surface	mining	where	entire	coal	
seams	and	the	earth	above	them	are	
removed	from	the	top	of	a	mountain.	
State	regulations	require	Duke	Energy	to	
purchase	the	most	economic	coal	possible.	
Because	of	where	we’re	located,	most	of	
the	coal	we	buy	for	our	Carolinas	plants	
comes	from	Central	Appalachia.	The	
latest	industry	estimate	indicates	about	
20	to	25	percent	of	the	coal	mined	in	this	
region	comes	from	mountaintop-removal	
mines.	However,	because	most	Central	
Appalachian	coal	is	blended	at	the	mine	
site	by	producers	with	both	underground	
and	various	types	of	surface-mined	coals,	
it	is	impossible	to	know	the	precise	
amount	of	mountaintop-removal	coal	that	
is	being	provided	to	Duke	Energy.

We	expect	legislative,	regulatory	and	legal	
challenges	to	mountaintop-removal	coal	
mining	to	continue.	We	have	convened	
an	internal	task	force	and	continue	to	
review	this	issue.	We	are	also	conducting	
research	and	engaging	stakeholders.	
Our	goal,	as	always,	is	to	strike	the	right	
balance	between	economic,	environmental	
and	social	considerations.

new source review
In	May	2009,	the	U.S.	District	Court	for	
the	Southern	District	of	Indiana	issued	
a	ruling	calling	for	Duke	Energy	to	shut	
down	three	units	at	the	company’s	Wabash	
River	Station	no	later	than	Sept.	30,	
2009.	Shutting	down	the	units	removed	
a	combined	capacity	of	265	megawatts	
(MW),	which	is	39	percent	of	the	station’s	
677-MW	power-generating	capacity.	

In	December	2009,	Duke	Energy	reached	
a	settlement	with	the	EPA,	the	U.S.	
Department	of	Justice	and	others	on	a	
lawsuit	involving	our	560-MW	Gallagher	
Station	in	southern	Indiana.	As	part	of	the	
settlement,	we	can	continue	to	operate	the	
plant	and	have	the	option	to	either	convert	
two	of	the	units	from	coal	to	natural	gas	
or	retire	the	units.	We	currently	expect	we	
will	convert	the	units	to	gas.	As	part	of	
the	conversion,	we	would	need	to	install	
approximately	19	miles	of	pipeline	to		
transport	natural	gas	to	the	station.	On		
the	station’s	other	two	units,	we	would	
install	additional	pollution	controls	and	
switch	to	lower-sulfur	coal.	We	estimate		
the	cost	to	convert	the	coal	units	to	gas		
and	to	install	additional	pollution	controls		
to	be	more	than	$80	million.

The	Wabash	River	and	Gallagher	decisions	
stem	from	an	effort	that	began	in	1999,	
when	the	EPA	filed	a	number	of	environ-
mental	enforcement	actions	across	the	
utility	industry.	In	this	case,	the	EPA	alleged	
that	Cinergy,	which	merged	with	Duke	
Energy	in	2006,	undertook	129	projects	
at	six	power	plants	(21	units)	in	Indiana	
and	Ohio	without	obtaining	new	permits	
required	under	New	Source	Review	(NSR)	
provisions	of	the	Clean	Air	Act.	The	govern-
ment	contended	that	Cinergy’s	work	did	not	
qualify	as	routine	maintenance,	and	that	
the	company	should	have	predicted	that		
the	projects	would	increase	emissions	at		
the	plants.	The	EPA	dismissed	most	allega-
tions	prior	to	trial.	In	the	Wabash	River	and	
Gallagher	trials	that	did	go	forward,	juries	
found	eight	violations	at	five	units,	which		
is	far	less	than	the	original	number		
of	allegations.	

24

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

Litigation	continues	over	alleged		
violations	of	NSR	provisions	at	our		
coal-fired	power	plants	in	the	Carolinas.	
A	trial	court	decision	in	our	favor	was	
appealed,	and	ultimately	a	key	issue	was	
reversed	by	the	U.S.	Supreme	Court.		
The	litigation	has	been	remanded	to		
the	trial	court	for	reconsideration	and		
is	pending	further	court	action.

greening our vehicle fleet: all new 
purchases to be plug-in hybrid or 
all-electric by 2020
In	September	2009,	Duke	Energy	and		
FPL	Group	
	jointly	committed	to	transi-
tion	their	corporate	fleets	of	cars	and	
trucks	to	plug-in	hybrid	or	all-electric	
vehicles.	This	commitment	could	involve	
the	replacement	of	more	than	10,000	
vehicles	and	potential	revenues	of	at	
least	$600	million	for	automakers.	The	
transition	could	also	potentially	reduce	
greenhouse	gas	emissions	by	more	than	
135,000	tons	between	now	and	2020.

Duke	Energy	and	FPL	will	begin	this	
transition	in	the	coming	years,	with	the	
goal	that	100	percent	of	all	new	fleet	
vehicles	purchased	will	be	plug-in	hybrid	
or	all-electric	by	2020.	This	10-year	
commitment	will	give	us	time	to	test,	
adopt	and	integrate	new	technology	into	
our	fleet	as	a	wider	range	of	vehicles	is	
developed.

Plug-in	electric	vehicles	can	cut	overall	
carbon	emissions	by	nearly	70	percent	–	
or	100	percent	if	charged	by	renewable	
energy.	They	can	also	lower	fuel	costs	by	
about	80	percent.	Demand	for	foreign	oil	
would	drop	by	nearly	two-thirds	if	plug-in	
vehicles	replaced	all	gasoline-powered	
vehicles	in	the	U.S.

We	hope	this	joint	commitment	inspires	
other	organizations	to	convert	to	plug-in	
hybrid	or	all-electric	fleets.	Similar	commit-
ments	would	provide	additional	proof	that	
a	robust	market	exists	for	low	or	zero-
emitting	vehicles.

now more than ever, modernizing our 
generation fleet makes sense
Despite	a	drop	in	demand	for	electricity	–	
due	to	the	weak	economy	–	and	uncertainty	
over	potential	federal	climate	change	legis-
lation,	we	believe	it’s	more	important	than	
ever	to	continue	modernizing	and	decarbon-
izing	
	our	power	generation	fleet.

Duke	Energy	may	be	the	only	investor-
owned	utility	in	the	U.S.	currently	pursuing	
the	development	of	new	assets	using	
all	five	fuels:	coal,	nuclear,	natural	gas,	
renewable	resources	and	energy	efficiency.	
We’re	continuing	down	this	path	for	several	
reasons.	With	the	possible	exception	of	our	
nuclear	power	and	hydroelectric	stations,	
which	could	be	relicensed	for	extended	
operation,	Duke	Energy	will	need	to	replace	
virtually	every	power	plant	on	our	system	
by	2050	
.	Our	commitment	to	providing	
clean	energy	compels	us	to	consider	low	
or	zero-emitting	technologies	as	we	replace	
these	assets.	Modernizing	our	fleet	also	
puts	people	to	work.

Here	is	a	look	at	some	of	the	progress	we	
have	made.

cleaner coal: a bridge to a low-carbon future
The	U.S.	depends	on	coal	for	half	of	its	
electricity.	To	meet	present-day	demand	
as	we	transition	to	low-carbon	technolo-
gies,	coal	must	remain	in	our	fuel	mix.	
However,	we	are	committed	to	using	it	
more	efficiently	and	reducing	its	impact	on	
the	environment.	Two	current	construction	
projects	show	how	that’s	possible.

emit	45	percent	less	CO2	per	megawatt-
hour	than	the	old,	inefficient	units	it	
replaces.	Because	the	IGCC	process	
converts	coal	into	a	synthetic	gas	to	
produce	electricity,	the	facility	will	also	
produce	fewer	emissions	of	SO2,	NOx	
and	mercury.	

Our	IGCC	project	offers	us	another	
intriguing	option:	the	possibility	of	securely	
storing	CO2	in	underground	geological	
formations	near	the	Edwardsport	site.	
Paired	with	IGCC	technology,	carbon	
capture	and	sequestration	could	signifi-
cantly	reduce	CO2	emissions	from	the	
plant	
from	Indiana	to	invest	$17	million	to	study	
the	potential	application	of	carbon	capture	
technology	at	our	Edwardsport	facility.	
In	addition,	we	are	proposing	to	spend	
$42	million	for	the	first	phase	of	work	to	
permanently	store	up	to	60	percent	of	the	
plant’s	CO2	emissions	underground.

.	We	received	regulatory	approval	

Construction	of	our	new	825-MW	
advanced	cleaner-coal	unit	in	North	
Carolina	is	more	than	halfway	complete.	
When	it	begins	operating	in	2012,	unit	6	
at	Cliffside	Steam	Station	will	rank	among	
the	cleanest	and	most	efficient	pulverized	
coal-fired	units	in	the	nation.	Building	
unit	6	and	modernizing	unit	5	will	enable	
the	Cliffside	facility	to	generate	more	than	
twice	its	current	output	with	significantly	
less	emissions	of	SO2,	NOx	and	mercury.

IN-SERVICE DATES FOR DUKE ENERGY’S 
REGULATED GENERATION FLEET

 power	plant	in	Edwardsport,	

When	finished	in	2012,	our	state-of-the-art	
630-MW	integrated	gasification	combined-
cycle	(IGCC)	
Ind.,	will	be	one	of	the	cleanest	coal-fired	
power	plants	in	the	world.	We	will	retire	the	
existing	plant	at	the	site	–	consisting	of	coal	
and	oil	units	built	between	1944	and	1951	
–	upon	completion	of	the	IGCC	facility.

The	new	plant,	which	is	halfway	complete,	
will	generate	10	times	more	electricity	and	

W
M

8000

7000

6000

5000

4000

3000

2000

1000

0

1940s 
and earlier

1950s

1960s

1970s

1980s

1990s

2000s

  = Coal  

= Nuclear

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   E N V I R O N M E N T A L   F O O T P R I N T

25

When	this	modernization	project	is	
complete,	we	will	retire	1,000	MW	of	
older,	less	efficient	coal-fired	genera-
tion	–	200	MW	at	Cliffside	and	800	MW	
elsewhere	on	our	system.	We	will	take	
additional	actions	to	make	Cliffside		
Unit	6	“carbon	neutral”	by	2018.	

The	primary	challenge	slowing	down	
a	nuclear	renaissance	in	the	U.S.	is	
the	initial	cost	of	building	new	nuclear	
stations.	Regional	partnerships	may	serve	
as	the	best	solution	to	this	challenge.	
Additional	loan	guarantees	by	the	federal	
government	may	be	another	possibility.

New	construction	is	not	the	only	way	we	
seek	to	reduce	the	environmental	footprint	
of	our	coal	plants.	We	have	invested	
approximately	$5	billion	over	the	last	
decade	to	significantly	reduce	SO2	and	
NOx	emissions	from	our	existing	fleet.	We	
are	also	exploring	blending	wood	chips	
with	coal	as	a	supplemental	fuel	source	
that	could	reduce	our	overall	coal	usage.	
We	have	conducted	successful	trials	of	this	
process	–	known	as	biomass	co-firing	–	
and	will	continue	to	test	its	practicality	as	
a	long-term	option	for	power	generation.

nuclear energy is a safe,  
carbon-free and 24-7 solution
We	operate	three	nuclear	stations	in	the	
Carolinas,	consisting	of	seven	reactors,	
and	are	the	nation’s	third-largest	nuclear	
plant	operator.	We	are	pursuing	the	option	
to	develop	the	2,234-MW	William	States	
Lee	III	Nuclear	Station	in	Cherokee		
County,	S.C.,	and	expect	to	receive	a	
construction	and	operating	license	in	
the	2013	time	frame.	If	approved	by	the	
Nuclear	Regulatory	Commission,	the		
Lee	Nuclear	Station	could	come	on	line		
in	the	2021	time	frame.

In	June	2009,	we	formed	the	Southern	
Ohio	Clean	Energy	Park	Alliance	to	explore	
the	potential	for	a	nuclear	power	plant	
at	a	former	government	defense	site	in	
Piketon,	Ohio.	Together	with	global	energy	
companies	AREVA,	UniStar	Nuclear	
Energy	and	USEC	–	and	the	Southern	
Ohio	Diversification	Initiative	–	we	hope	
to	transform	part	of	the	3,700-acre	U.S.	
Department	of	Energy	site	into	a	nuclear	
station	that	generates	clean	electricity,	
thousands	of	good-paying	jobs	and	
economic	growth	for	the	region.

The	nuclear	power	industry	continues	
to	work	with	the	U.S.	government	to	
address	the	issue	of	used	fuel.	The	
government	recently	announced	that	it	
would	not	pursue	disposal	of	used	fuel	
at	the	proposed	national	repository	at	
Yucca	Mountain	in	Nevada.	As	a	poten-
tial	alternative,	Duke	Energy	and	other	
nuclear	station	operators	are	encouraging	
the	government	to	consider	used	fuel	
recycling.	This	process	recovers	energy	
from	some	of	the	material	in	used	fuel	
and	converts	the	remainder	into	a	form	
that	may	offer	advantages	for	ultimate	
disposal.	Some	European	countries	have	
successfully	recycled	used	nuclear	fuel	for	
decades.	Today,	we	safely	and	securely	
store	used	fuel	in	spent	fuel	pools	or	dry	
canisters	at	our	nuclear	stations.

the outlook improves for natural gas
Natural	gas	is	becoming	an	increasingly	
popular	alternative	to	coal-fired	electric	
generation,	due	to	increased	domestic	
reserves,	lower	prices	and	fewer	
emissions.	In	light	of	the	historic	volatility	
in	gas	(and	other	commodity)	prices,		
Duke	Energy	continues	to	take	a	portfolio	
approach	to	fuels,	including	natural	gas.	
We	are	building	two	620-MW	combined-
cycle	
,	natural	gas-fired	generating	plants	
in	North	Carolina	that	will	be	completed	in	
2011	and	2012.	These	cleaner-burning	
plants	are	being	constructed	at	our	existing	
Buck	and	Dan	River	coal	stations.	We	may	
also	convert	two	coal-burning	units	at	our	
Gallagher	Station	in	Indiana	to	use	natural	
gas	as	fuel.

For information about Duke Energy’s 
growing renewable power portfolio and 
energy efficiency programs, see the 
Innovative Products and Services section 
of this report.

is shale gas the answer?
Using	natural	gas	to	generate	electricity	
offers	distinct	advantages.	Gas	plants	burn	
fuel	more	cleanly	than	coal-fired	stations,	
can	be	built	quickly	and	provide	flexibility	
in	meeting	demand.	Fluctuating	natural	
gas	prices,	however,	have	historically	
hindered	the	fuel	source’s	practicality	as		
a	cost-effective	solution	for	the	long	term.

Duke	Energy	is	paying	close	attention	to	
developments	in	the	decades-old	process	
of	extracting	natural	gas	from	shale,	a	
fine-grained	rock.	Recent	technological	
advances	and	newly	discovered	domestic	
supplies	have	boosted	shale	gas	extrac-
tion.	The	U.S.	experienced	a	70-percent	
increase	in	shale	gas	production	between	
2007	and	2008,	according	to	the	U.S.	
Energy	Information	Administration’s	
Office	of	Oil	and	Gas.	Experts	predict	
the	resource	will	provide	approximately	
one-third	of	U.S.	natural	gas	resources		
in	the	21st	century.

Still,	some	are	raising	concerns	about	the	
amount	of	water	and	chemicals	required	
in	the	shale	fracturing	process,	as	well	as	
the	potential	for	future	government	regula-
tion.	Duke	Energy	will	continue	to	monitor	
developments	related	to	shale	gas	produc-
tion	and	incorporate	it	into	our	long-term	
generation	plans	as	appropriate.

Web eXclusive content

plant improvements reduce landfill Waste
environmental, Health and safety policy 
and Management system
protecting native Fish populations

environmental leadership recognition

26

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

 
	
	
	
	
environmental performance metrics

2009 net megaWatt-hour generation1

United States

Latin America

Total

MWh 
(thousands)

Percent

MWh 
(thousands)

Percent

MWh 
(thousands)

Percent

  Coal

  Natural Gas/Oil

Total Fossil

  Nuclear

  Conventional Hydro

  Wind

87,220

62.2%

6,596

4.7%

93,816

66.9%

43,354

30.9%

2,405

1,426

1.7%

1.0%

0

3,978

3,978

0

0.0%

20.7%

20.7%

0.0%

15,217

79.3%

0

0.0%

87,220

54.7%

10,574

97,794

43,354

17,622

1,426

6.6%

61.3%

27.2%

11.1%

0.9%

Total Carbon Free

47,185

33.6%

15,217

79.3%

64,402

39.1%

  Pumped Storage 

(722)

(0.5%)

0

0.0%

(722)

(0.5%)

Hydro2

Total

140,280 100.0%

19,195 100.0%

159,474 100.0%

1   all data based on Duke energy’s ownership share of generating assets. totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
2   pumped storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces. 

2009 megaWatt generation capacitY1

  Coal

  Natural Gas/Oil

Total Fossil

  Nuclear

  Conventional Hydro

  Wind

Total Carbon Free

  Pumped Storage 

Hydro2

Total

United States

MW Percent

16,660

47.3%

9,414

26.7%

26,074

74.0%

5,173

1,173

735

7,081

2,090

14.7%

3.3%

2.1%

20.1%

5.9%

Latin America

MW Percent

0

1,145

1,145

0

0.0%

28.3%

28.3%

0.0%

2,908

71.7%

0

0.0%

2,908

71.7%

0

0.0%

Total

MW Percent

16,660

10,559

27,219

5,173

4,081

735

9,989

2,090

42.4%

26.9%

69.3%

13.2%

10.4%

1.9%

25.4%

5.3%

35,245 100.0%

4,053 100.0%

39,298 100.0%

1   all data based on Duke energy’s ownership share of generating assets. totals may not add up exactly due to rounding. 
2   pumped storage hydro helps meet peak demands and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces. 

fuels consumed for u.s. electric generation3

Coal (thousand	tons)

Oil (thousand	gallons)

2006

46,500

Not	Compiled

Natural Gas (thousand	decatherms)

Not	Compiled

3   Generating plants owned and operated by Duke energy.

2007

46,779

23,018

33,652

2008

45,049

22,232

26,784

2009

36,147

18,271

50,729

Water WithdraWn and consumed (billion Gallons)4

Withdrawn

Consumed

20085

4,009

60

2009

3,811

74

2009 net megawatt-
hour generation*
  54.7%   Coal
  27.2%  nuclear
  6.6%   natural Gas
  12.0%  Wind/Hydro

* pumped storage hydro, which totaled (0.5%), consumes  

more energy than it produces.

almost 40 percent of the electricity we generated 
in 2009 was from carbon-free sources, including 
nuclear, hydro and wind. including our renewable 
energy assets, our nuclear fleet in the Carolinas and 
our hydroelectric assets in north america and south 
america, we are now the third-largest producer 
of carbon-free electricity in the americas among 
u.s.-based, investor-owned utilities.

Web eXclusive content

	 Water: a shared resource

Duke energy international.

4   excludes Duke energy Generation services.
5   u.s. data only. 2009 was the first year water withdrawal and consumption data was gathered and reported across  

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   E N V I R O N M E N T A L   F O O T P R I N T

27

 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	
emissions from generation
emission levels depend on many factors, including 
demand for electricity, fuel availability and prices, 
weather and emission controls deployed. Co2 and 
nox emissions declined in 2009 due to reduced coal 
generation, which resulted from decreased demand  
for electricity, and increased nuclear and hydro 
generation. so2 emissions decreased due to the 
factors above, plus the addition of emission controls.

u.s. toxic release inventory (tri)
Duke energy tri-reported releases for 2008 were 
down about 29 percent from 2007. though partially 
due to reduced 2008 generation (and fuel consump-
tion), the primary cause of this reduction was  
recently installed air pollution control devices at 
several plants, including new flue gas desulfurization 
(FGD) scrubbers. FGD scrubbers are highly effective  
at capturing acid aerosols (hydrochloric acid, hydrogen 
fluoride and, to a lesser extent, sulfuric acid), which 
compose the largest portion of tri-reported releases. 
baghouses (filters to remove fine particles from 
exhaust gases) recently installed at one plant also 
decreased sulfuric acid emissions. However, sulfuric 
acid reductions from scrubbers and baghouses  
were offset by increases due to burning higher  
sulfur coal and by increased selective catalytic 
reduction (sCr) system operations for nox control. 
tri-reported releases of metal compounds also 
decreased from 2007.

u.s. on-road and off-road vehicle  
fleet emissions and fuel consumed
We have a goal to reduce nox, volatile organic 
compounds (VoC), particulate matter (pM) and  
carbon monoxide (Co) emissions from our on-road 
and off-road vehicle fleet 35 percent by 2012 
compared to 2006. We are on track to meet this goal.

28

emissions from generation
Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions (thousand	tons)6
  U.S.

  Latin America

  Total
Total CO2 Emissions Intensity 
(tons	per	net	MWh)
U.S. Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions (tons)7
  U.S. SO2 Emissions Intensity 

(pounds	per	net	MWh)

2006

2007

2008

2009

102,300

108,500

105,000

90,800

3,000

3,100

2,700

2,900

105,300

111,600

107,700

93,700

0.63

0.66

0.66

0.59

817,700

682,300

427,700 239,800

11.0

8.9

5.8

3.4

U.S. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Emissions (tons)7

149,200

130,500

122,700

64,800

  U.S. NOx Emissions Intensity	

(pounds	per	net	MWh)

2.0

1.7

1.7

0.9

6  Co2 reported from u.s. electric generation and Duke energy international operations, and based on ownership share of generating assets.
7   so2 and nox reported from u.s. electric generation based on ownership share of coal-fired generating assets.

U.S. SULFUR DIOXIDE AND       NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSIONS (THOUSAND TONS)8

900

750

600

450

300

150

0

2006

2007

2008

2009

8   so2 and nox reported from u.s. electric generation based on ownership share of coal-fired generating assets.

u.s. toXic release inventorY – tri (pounDs)9

2005

2006

2007

2008 +/– from ‘07

Releases to Air

80,172,829

75,751,707

59,583,874

39,382,312

(33.9%)

Releases to Water

247,542

195,247

223,547

234,225

Releases to Land

15,234,393

14,223,652

15,592,508

13,895,459

Off-Site Transfers

77,123

64,365

91,986

117,970

Total

95,731,887

90,234,971

75,491,915

53,629,966

4.8%	

(10.9%)

28.2%

(29.0%)

9   2009 data will not be available until July 2010. Data pertain to facilities Duke energy owns or operates and for which it is the responsible 

reporting party.

u.s. on-road and off-road vehicle fleet emissions and fuel consumed10
2007

2006

Number of Vehicles

5,396

5,426

2008

5,460

2009

5,647

Fuel Consumed (gallons)

7,800,000

7,887,000

7,569,000

7,294,000

  Nitrogen Oxides (tons)

  Volatile Organic Carbon (tons)

  Particulate Matter (tons)

  Carbon Monoxide (tons)

Total Emissions (tons)

486

73

24

718

1,301

497

66

26

629

1,218

449

59

24

649

1,181

467

56

27

544

1,094

10  Vehicle operation and fuel consumption are estimated where individual mileage, engine hours or fuel measurements are not available. 

these estimates are used for emissions calculations where necessary.

u.s. natural gas line leaKs repaired

Web eXclusive content

Reduction in Leaks Repaired	(Since	2007)

Baseline	year

2007

2008

6%

2009

30%

	 reducing natural Gas line leaks

u.s. coal combustion products – ccps (tHousanD tons)

Total CCPs Produced

Sluiced to Ponds11

Disposed in On-Site Landfills/Fills

Beneficially Used (excluding	structural	fills)

Beneficially Used (including	structural	fills)

2006

8,472

3,060

3,426

1,862

3,019

2007

8,533

2,821

4,229

2,052

3,700

2008

8,554

2,554

3,544

2,232

4,497

2009

8,441

1,674

3,850

2,167

3,807

11  CCps sluiced to ponds are often dug out and disposed of in landfills, or beneficially used in later years.

u.s. coal combustion products – ccps
We have a goal to increase the amount of coal 
combustion products that are beneficially used 
(excluding structural fills) by 10 percent by 2012, 
compared to 2007. We are on track to meet this goal.

Waste

U.S. Solid Waste

  Total Generated (tons)

  Percent Recycled

Hazardous Waste Generated (tons)13

Low-level Radioactive Waste (Class B and C) 
Generated (cubic	feet)

2006

2007

2008

2009

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

40,162

39,651

52%12

n/a

55%

438

1,464.3 1,420.1

1,303.3

738.6

Waste
We have a goal to increase the percentage of u.s. solid 
waste that is recycled from 52 percent in 2008 to 62 
percent by 2012. We also have a goal to reduce by 
25 percent the amount of low-level radioactive waste 
(Class b and C) we generate by 2012, compared to 
the 2002 through 2005 average. We are on track to 
meet both of these goals.

12  the 2008 recycling percentage differs from what was reported last year and reflects updates that were made after the report was 

published. as a result, our goal – which was 65 percent – is now 62 percent. all data exclude Duke energy Generation services, Duke 
energy international and large, one-time projects. Weights are estimated based on volumes where necessary. Data not available for 
2006-2007.

13  Companywide data not available for 2006-2008.

u.s. electricitY consumed

Electricity Consumed at Our 13 Largest 
Commercial Buildings	(Kilowatt-hours)

2005-07 Avg. 2006-08 Avg. 2007-09 Avg.

64,836,429

62,600,100

60,479,810

reportable oil spills

Spills

Gallons

14  u.s. spills only.

200614

75

3,251

200714

79

28,864

200814

66

6,609

2009

92

4,684

environmental regulatorY citations15

Citations

2006  

12 	

2007

12	

2008

16

2009

18

Fines/Penalties	(dollars)

$8,850

$10,165,50016

$141,65717

$2,789,290

15   includes u.s. and international federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties.
16   this historical value differs from what was reported last year and reflects a correction that was made after the report was published.
17   this historical value reflects changes that have occurred as fines have been resolved.

u.s. electricity consumption
We have a goal to reduce electricity consumption at  
our 13 largest commercial buildings 10 percent by 
2012 compared to the 2005 through 2007 average.  
We are on track to meet this goal.

reportable oil spills
oil spills include releases of lubricating oil from 
generating stations, leaks from transformers or damage 
caused by third parties (typically due to auto accidents).

environmental regulatory citations
no fines were associated with 10 of the 18 citations in 
2009. in addition, $2,747,500 of the total 2009 fines/
penalties resulted from resolution of citations received 
prior to 2009. the 2007 total fines/penalties figure 
includes proposed fines of approximately r$20 million 
(approximately us$10 million) assessed by the brazil 
state environmental agency of parana and approxi-
mately r$300,000 (approximately us$150,000) by 
the brazilian institute of environment and renewable 
natural resources for alleged violations related to 
reforestation. We are contesting these violations.

29

 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
QualitY WorKforce

3

challenges
  Continue improving employee and contractor safety, especially in 

light of three contractor fatalities in 2009

  Manage the transition resulting from employee voluntary separations, 
including retaining critical expertise and selective hiring for new skills
  Improve diversity and effectively manage a multi-generational workforce

opportunities
  Maintain our reputation as a preferred employer
  Deploy improved employee performance management system

2009 and earlY 2010 highlights
  Remained on track to achieve top-decile safety performance 

by 2012 as measured by Total Incident Case Rate 

  Improved employee satisfaction and increased trust in 

senior leadership

safetY performance

a.  First and foremost, we feel a deep sense of loss 
for the contractor fatalities. after achieving no 
fatalities in 2008, last year reminded us that 
the difference between a near-miss incident 
and a fatality is often just a matter of inches or 
seconds. We turned these tragedies into a “call 
to action” for our employees and contractors 
by sharing what went wrong in each case and 
providing guidance on how to avoid similar 
accidents in the future. in addition to placing an 
even greater emphasis on working safely, we’re 
also collaborating with other safety-focused 
companies to exchange best practices and 
lessons learned.

With that said, we shouldn’t lose sight of the 
fact that our employees achieved the lowest 
total incident Case rate1 in company history. 
that took a lot of hard work and vigilance. We 
also had a 20 percent decrease in preventable 
vehicle accidents. When it comes to safety, 
however, you can never rest on yesterday’s 
achievements. you have to work to create a safe 
work environment each and every day.

Q.  how has duke energy improved  

a. 

its safety performance?
in 2006 we set a “stretch” goal for safety: to 
climb from a third-quartile ranking among peer 
utilities into the top 10 percent by 2012. We’ve 
made excellent progress in reducing the number 
and severity of employee injuries over the past 

four years. i attribute our success to enhanced 
safety processes and systems, better recogni-
tion of workplace hazards, a consistent focus on 
safety by company leaders and a strengthened 
sense of accountability among our employees.

Q.  What does the company need to do to raise  
its safety performance to a higher level?
a.  First, we need to make sure all supervisors 

recognize their responsibility to keep employees 
from harm by constantly reinforcing safe work 
practices. our employees must also continue 
to take greater ownership for identifying and 
mitigating risks in the workplace. Finally, we need 
to ensure our contractors fully understand our 
expectations for performing their tasks in a safe 
and responsible manner.

Q.  Why is building a culture of safety  

important to duke energy?

a.  anyone who works for our company, whether an 
employee or contractor, has the right to a safe 
work environment. but preventing accidents and 
injuries requires a team effort that starts at the 
top and involves everyone in the organization. if 
we always put safety first and make it a pillar of 
our corporate culture, then it becomes second 
nature for our workforce. We’re not there yet,  
but i believe we’re headed in that direction.

1  number of recordable incidents per 100 employees  

(based on osHa criteria)

Q&a

mitch griggs | Vice president,
environment, Health and safety

In 2009, three contractor fatalities overshadowed 
another year in which Duke Energy’s overall safety 
performance improved. In the following Q&A,  
Mitch Griggs discusses Duke Energy’s 2009  
safety performance.

Q.  What comes to mind when you reflect on 

duke energy’s safety performance in 2009?

30

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

 
talent management
We	continue	to	face	major	change	not		
only	in	our	business	environment,	but	
within	our	company	as	well.	

recruiting, developing and  
retaining employees
As	the	chart	indicates,	nearly	70	percent	
of	our	employees	are	“Baby	Boomers”	–		
born	between	1946	and	1964.	Duke	
Energy	is	confronting	a	potential	loss	
of	talent	as	many	of	these	employees	
approach	retirement	age.

four generations in  
duke energy’s u.s. Workforce

  1%  traditionalists (born before 1946)
  67%   baby boomers (born 1946-1964)
  27%  Generation X (born 1965-1981)
  5%   Millennials (born after 1981)

In	early	2010,	we	offered	employees	in	
select	departments	a	voluntary	opportunity	
to	leave	the	company.	This	program	was	
designed	to	help	the	company	meet	cost-
reduction	goals	without	forced	layoffs.		
It	also	allowed	employees	to	make	
decisions	that	suit	their	personal	career		
or	retirement	goals.

To	preserve	our	“bench	strength”	of		
talent,	we	are:

Identifying	the	core	skills	and	jobs	for	
which	we	will	actively	recruit	skilled,	
diverse	candidates

	 Developing	knowledge	management	
and	aging-worker	transition	strategies
	 Offering	employees	a	variety	of	class-

room	and	online	training	opportunities	
throughout	the	year

	 Continuing	to	partner	with	community	
colleges	and	technical	schools	on	
student	development	and	recruitment	
for	technician	positions.

performance management improvements
In	2009,	a	detailed	assessment	of	our	
performance	management	process	led	us	
to	conclude	we	needed	to	make	changes.	
Employees	will	see	several	changes	begin-
ning	in	2010,	including:
	 Greater	consistency	in	the	criteria	used	
to	evaluate	performance	across	the	
organization

	 More	balanced	appraisals	based	on	

individual	goals	(what	employees	set	
out	to	achieve)	and	competencies		
(how	employees	perform	their	duties)
	 More	equitable	distribution	of	rewards	

based	on	relative	performance.

These	changes	will	help	employees		
better	understand	what	is	expected	of	
them,	more	accurately	assess	their	work,	
and	improve	the	linkage	between	pay		
and	performance.

engaging employees on sustainability
Our	efforts	to	embed	sustainable	thinking	
in	our	culture	began	in	earnest	in	2009	
with	the	enlistment	and	training	of	
“Sustainability	Leads”	and	“Sustainability	
Corps”	members.

Sustainability	Leads	are	recognized	depart-
mental	leaders	who	are	charged	with	
identifying	and	addressing	their	group’s	
biggest	sustainability	challenges	and	
opportunities.	In	addition,	Sustainability	
Leads	help	recruit	and	provide	guidance		
to	Sustainability	Corps	members.

The	Sustainability	Corps	is	a	grassroots	
network	of	Duke	Energy	employees	who	
help	drive	new	sustainable	processes	at	
the	local	level.	All	members	are	asked	
to	do	two	things:	champion	at	least	one	
sustainability-related	project	at	work	and	
adopt	a	personal	sustainability	practice	
(PSP).	We	have	learned	from	our	efforts	
to	improve	safety	performance	that	real	
ownership	of	an	issue	occurs	when	it	has	
personal	meaning	to	the	individual.	That’s	
why	PSPs	are	a	key	component	of	the	
Sustainability	Corps	program.

Sustainability	Leads	and	Corps	members	
attend	a	half-day	workshop	to	learn	
sustainability	concepts	and	tools,	and		
to	discuss	the	issues	that	are	relevant	
to	our	industry	and	company.	Members	
receive	continued	support	after	the	
workshop	to	implement	and	share	their	
improvement	ideas.

safetY at duKe energY

Employee and Contractor Work-Related Fatalities

Employee Total Incident Case Rate1

Employee Lost Workday Case Rate2

Contractor Total Incident Case Rate1

1  number of recordable incidents per 100 employees (based on osHa criteria)
2   number of lost workday cases per 100 employees
3   First year compiled and reported

2006

2007

2008   

2009

4

1.51

0.35

—

2

1.25

0.26

—

0  

1.15  

0.28  

3

1.00

0.23

—

1.093

Web eXclusive content

innovative employee idea 
Helps profits and planet

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   Q U A L I T Y   W O R K F O R C E

31

	
	
WorKforce statistics

Full and Part-Time Employees

	United	States

	International

1/31/071

12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09 

18,053

17,100

953

18,117

17,045

1,072

18,548

17,429

1,119

18,683

17,581

1,102

Collective Bargaining Unit/Union Members as Percent of Workforce

	United	States	(Members	of	a	Collective	
Bargaining	Unit)

27.1%

25.5%

25.2%

24.7%

	International	(Members	of	a	Union)

35.3%

30.2%

27.4%

26.2%

1  after spectra energy spinoff.

u.s. WorKforce demographics2

Ethnic Diversity as Percent of Workforce

	White

	Black/African	American

	Hispanic/Latino

	Asian/Pacific	Islander

	American	Indian/Alaska	Nation

	Not	Specified

Females/Minorities as Percent of Workforce/Management

	Females	as	Percent	of	Workforce

	Females	as	Percent	of	Management	

	Minorities	as	Percent	of	Workforce

	Minorities	as	Percent	of	Management

22.6%

17.6%

13.3%

7.8%

2  ethnic diversity and gender data are not captured for Duke energy international employees.
3  after spectra energy spinoff.

1/31/073

12/31/07

12/31/08

12/31/09

86.6%

11.2%

0.9%

0.9%

0.3%

0.1%

86.6%

11.3%

0.9%

0.8%

0.3%

0.2%

22.6%

17.2%

13.3%

8.0%

86.7%

11.2%

0.9%

0.8%

0.3%

0.1%

22.6%

15.5%

13.3%

7.9%

u.s. emploYee turnover summarY
Reason

	Severance	package	volunteers

	Resignations

	Retirements

	Employees	who	were	notified	they	did	not	have	a	
position	in	the	company	and	elected	to	leave	with	a	
severance	package4

	Dismissals

Total	Turnover

Total	U.S.	employees

Turnover	as	a	percent	of	workforce

Percentage	of	employees	eligible	to	retire	in	5	years5

Percentage	of	employees	eligible	to	retire	in	10	years5

2007

405

244

218

114

46

1,027

17,045

6.0%

—

—

2008

210

304

190

18

96

818

17,429

4.7%

—

—

86.9%

11.0%

0.9%

0.9%

0.3%

0.0%

22.6%

16.3%

13.1%

7.6%

2009

14

238

205

12

127

596

17,581

3.4%

50.9%

67.9%

dei’s continuous improvement program 
saves nearly $17 million since 2000
Our	efforts	to	make	our	business	more	
efficient	extend	beyond	the	shores	of	North	
America.	A	Duke	Energy	International	
(DEI)	continuous	improvement	program	
encourages	employee	teams	to	identify	
ways	to	improve	DEI’s	safety	procedures,	
enhance	revenues,	reduce	costs,	simplify	
work	processes	and	increase	productivity.		
Employee	teams	submit	projects	annually	
as	part	of	a	competition	that	takes	place	
in	each	Latin	American	country	where	DEI	
operates.	The	projects	must	meet	certain	
eligibility	criteria,	including	the	require-
ment	that	projects	must	be	implemented	
to	be	considered.

Since	the	program’s	launch	in	2000,	
approximately	400	completed	projects	
have	generated	savings	of	nearly	$17	
million.	One	recent	example	illustrates	how	
a	good	idea	can	save	time	and	money.	
Frustrated	by	inefficiencies	in	the	process	
for	reconciling	natural	gas	supplies	with	
demand,	several	Duke	Energy	Argentina	
employees	built	a	new	online	tool	that	
reduced	the	time	it	takes	to	“dispatch”	
natural	gas	by	30	percent.	The	improve-
ment	streamlined	communication,	boosted	
efficiency	and	strengthened	data	security.

Web eXclusive content

	 Duke energy named 

best of the best in Diversity
Charting a path to top-Decile 
safety performance
employee satisfaction increases

4   employees whose jobs were affected by restructuring were offered an option to transfer into a “transition pool” for a six-month period, during 

which they could explore other employment opportunities within Duke energy.

5  First year tracked and reported. eligible to retire is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least 5 years of service.

employee networks encourage 
inclusion, skill-building

32

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

	
	
	
strong communities

4

challenges
  Encourage economic development 

in a tough economy

  Help the communities we serve 

rebound from the recession

opportunities
  Help attract jobs to our service territories
  Use our customer and community programs 

to strengthen the regions we serve

2009 and earlY 2010 highlights
  Offered average retail electric rates 
in each of our five states that were  
below the national average

  Worked to position each of our 
service areas as leaders in the  
low-carbon economy

  Helped attract $1.17 billion in capital 

investment and 9,785 jobs

  Contributed more than $28 million to our 
communities (includes contributions from 
The Duke Energy Foundation, Duke Energy 
Corporation, and its employees and retirees)

a Duke energy employee conducts a “live line  
demonstration” to educate school children about 
electric safety.

encouraging economic development
Duke	Energy	promotes	economic	develop-
ment	in	two	primary	ways:	offering	reliable	
power	at	competitive	rates	and	investing	in	
(or	attracting	investments	in)	projects	that	
create	jobs.

We	work	closely	with	officials	in	our	five-
state	service	territory	to	position	energy	
costs	as	a	key	differentiator	for	companies	
looking	to	add	or	expand	operations.		
We	also	serve	in	key	leadership	positions	
within	local	and	regional	economic	develop-
ment	organizations.	The	importance	of	this	
work	has	risen	considerably,	due	to	the	
weak	economy	and	escalating	competition	
among	regions	to	attract	business	growth.	

Duke	Energy’s	economic	development	team	
helped	state,	regional	and	local	govern-
ment	officials	attract	$1.17	billion	in	capital	
investments	and	9,785	new	jobs	to	the	
five	states	we	serve	during	2009.	These	
results	reflect	new	capital	investments	and	
jobs;	they	are	not	net	results	that	take	into	
account	business	closures	and	job	losses	
due	to	the	economic	downturn.	Despite	
2010’s	economic	uncertainties,	we	have	
set	aggressive	goals	to	help	attract	more	
capital	investment	and	jobs.

We	believe	the	energy	industry	itself	can	
play	a	transformative	role	in	stimulating	
the	economy.	For	instance,	we	are	one	of	

several	organizations	pushing	to		
transform	the	city	of	Charlotte,	N.C.	–	
home	to	Duke	Energy’s	headquarters	–	
into	a	center	for	energy-related	jobs	and	
companies.	Approximately	20,000		
people	in	the	Charlotte	area	already		
work	in	energy-related	jobs.

Several	leading	companies	made	bets		
on	the	region’s	prospects	as	“the	new		
energy	capital”	in	2009,	including:
	 Siemens	Energy,	which	will	add	825	
jobs	and	invest	at	least	$135	million		
to	expand	its	Charlotte	operations	over	
the	next	five	years

	 Toshiba	America	Nuclear	Energy,	which	

plans	to	establish	an	engineering	
center	in	the	area

	 Babcock	&	Wilcox,	a	power-generation	
technology	provider,	which	announced	
plans	to	relocate	its	corporate	
headquarters	to	Charlotte.

7,000	peak	construction	jobs,	plus	hundreds	
more	high-paying	permanent	jobs.	Virtually	
all	of	our	large	capital	investments	lead	to	
significant	job	creation	and	build	the	local	
tax	base.	In	addition,	the	states	we	serve	are	
developing	innovative	programs	to	support	a	
low-carbon	economy.	For	example,	Indiana	
is	attracting	new	manufacturing	investments	
in	wind	turbine	components,	electric	vehicles	
and	batteries	–	all	of	which	create	jobs.

low power costs and high reliability help 
attract $1 billion apple data center to n.c.
Affordable	and	reliable	electricity	played	an	
instrumental	role	in	luring	a	new	$1	billion	
Apple	data	center	to	Duke	Energy’s	North	
Carolina	service	territory.	The	data	center,	
announced	in	mid-2009,	will	be	Apple’s	
first	on	the	East	Coast.	The	center	will	
enhance	the	infrastructure	that	supports	the	
company’s	popular	iPhone	device	and	iTunes	
Web-based	multimedia	service.

Duke	Energy’s	projects	throughout	the	
U.S.	serve	as	excellent	reminders	that	
new	energy	investments	put	people	to	
work.	Our	two	advanced-coal	plants	
under	construction	in	Indiana	and	North	
Carolina	will	employ	approximately	
4,000	workers	during	peak	construction,	
generate	hundreds	of	permanent	positions	
and	support	local	vendors.	Building	
new	nuclear	stations	in	Ohio	and	South	
Carolina	would	also	create	an	estimated	

Duke	Energy	worked	closely	with	state	and	
local	economic	development	officials	to	
attract	Apple	to	the	region.	The	new	data	
center	will	generate:
	 New	tax	revenues	for	the	town	of	

Maiden	and	the	state

	 Construction	jobs	and	at	least	50	

high-tech	positions	with	Apple	within		
the	first	two	years	of	operation
	 Economic	activity	for	retailers,	

suppliers	and	vendors	in	the	area.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   S T R O N G   C O M M U N I T I E S

33

communitY support in tough economic times

Q.  how has the economy affected  

duke energy’s support?

a.  Duke energy has stepped up to assist 

critical-needs community organizations. We 
have made special grants to help nonprofits 
in our service territories meet basic human 
needs – food, shelter, clothing and money 
to keep the heat and lights on. We’re also 
collaborating with other corporate charitable 
foundations to find ways to become more 
agile in addressing community needs.

Q.  What’s one recent example of  

community support that made you  
proud to work for duke energy?

a.  even though money is tight for everyone, 
our employees, retirees and the Duke 
energy Foundation gave $5 million to the 
united Way. roughly 7,700 employees made 
donations of varying amounts, and more 
than 30 contributed more than $10,000 
each. it’s gratifying to see our workforce 
recognize and help meet our communi-
ties’ needs at a time of great economic 
uncertainty.

Q.  how might duke energy improve  

its support in the future?

a.  We need to continue to be as strategic as 
possible with our giving. We can do this  
by more accurately assessing the outcomes 
of our philanthropic investments in the 
community and adjusting our support 
accordingly. Duke energy must also seek 
out new opportunities for public/private 
partnerships and regional cooperation 
among companies, rather than waiting for 
those opportunities to come to us. 

in addition, we intend to stay on top of 
community needs in “real time” by actively 
convening and engaging key civic leaders 
and our nonprofit partners. together, we can 
determine which efforts are working, what 
support is still needed, and how to pool our 
resources to best serve the community in a 
sustainable way.

2009 community giving summary
The	importance	of	the	financial	support	
we	provide	to	the	communities	we	serve	is	
magnified	in	these	tough	economic	times.	
Charitable	giving	from	The	Duke	Energy	
Foundation,	Duke	Energy	Corporation	and	
its	employees	and	retirees	totaled	more	
than	$28	million	in	2009.	Our	total	chari-
table	giving	was	$30	million	in	2008	and	
$31	million	in	2007.

$16.7	million The	Duke	Energy	Foundation

$2.5	million Other	cash	contributions	and	

in-kind	

 gifts	and	services

$9.2	million Cash	contributions	and	the	value	

of	our	employees’	and	retirees’	
volunteer	time

$28.4 million Total Charitable Giving

Through	regional	contributions	councils,	
The	Duke	Energy	Foundation	awarded	
grants	to	support	three	areas	of	funding:
	 Community	vitality	–	

51%	($7.6	million	in	2009)

	 Economic	development,	

including	educational	initiatives	–		
41%	($6	million)

	 Environment	and	energy	efficiency	–	

8%	($1.2	million).

Another	$1.8	million	was	provided	by	The	
Duke	Energy	Foundation	to	fund	matching	
gifts	and	volunteer	grants	for	employees	
and	retirees	in	2009.	

In	addition	to	charitable	giving	of	more	
than	$28	million	in	2009,	Duke	Energy	
invested	approximately	$5.8	million	in	
our	communities	in	support	of	regula-
tory	agreements	and	other	business	
initiatives.	For	instance,	Duke	Energy	
Carolinas	continues	to	share	its	bulk	
power	marketing	(BPM)	profits	by	
providing	support	for	education	and	
programs	administered	by	public	assis-
tance	agencies.	BPM	profits	come	from	
off-system	sales	of	power	on	the	open	
market.	Contributions	from	BPM	in	2009	
totaled	more	than	$4.2	million.	This	figure	

Q&a

alisa mcdonald | Vice president,
the Duke energy Foundation

Giving back to the community is a bedrock principle 
of our corporate culture. In the following Q&A,  
Alisa McDonald talks about the important role 
Duke Energy plays in supporting our communities – 
particularly during tough economic times.

Q.  how have the needs of the community 

changed in the last two years?

a.  the speed at which the economy deteriorated 
in 2008 had an unfortunate ripple effect on 
community organizations throughout the 
country. in many ways, 2009 was the year of 
the “community in crisis.” Funding for many 
nonprofits dipped – some by 40 percent from 
the previous year – just as demand for their 
services surged. Many are struggling to survive.

While these are incredibly challenging times, 
it’s also an opportunity for a “rebirth” of sorts. 
Community organizations are learning to do 
more with less, by becoming more creative 
with their resources and partnering with other 
nonprofits.

34

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

 
 
grants improve Job prospects
Dollars	from	Duke	Energy’s	bulk	power	
marketing	profits	are	helping	to	improve	
job	training	in	the	Carolinas.

In	2004,	Duke	Energy	established	the	
Community	and	Technical	College	Grant	
Program	in	North	Carolina.	Since	the	
program	started,	more	than	45	grants	
totaling	more	than	$9	million	have	been	
awarded	to	community	colleges.	In	
South	Carolina,	a	similar	program	called	
AdvanceSC	has	provided	more	than		
$14	million	in	education	grants	to	high	
schools	and	colleges.

Thanks	to	a	2009	Duke	Energy	grant,	
students	can	now	enroll	in	a	new	avionics	
program	at	Guilford	Technical	Community	
College	in	Greensboro,	N.C.	Students	in	
the	program	learn	how	to	wire,	repair	and	
install	communications	and	navigation	
equipment,	such	as	high-tech	cockpit	
control	panels.

A	mobile	Career	Launch	Pad	–	made	
possible	by	a	2009	Duke	Energy	grant	
to	the	North	Carolina	Community	College	
System	–	brings	information	on	technical	
careers	to	job	seekers	at	schools,	career	
fairs	and	community	events	throughout	
the	state.	It	houses	mini	“career	stations,”	
where	prospective	students	can	learn	
about	jobs	that	are	available	and	the		
skills	required.

Together,	the	avionics	and	Career	Launch	
Pad	projects	received	approximately	
$500,000	in	grants	from	Duke	Energy.	
In	addition	to	educating	and	training	job	
seekers,	these	projects	benefit	advanced-
technology	industries	that	are	most	likely	
to	locate	and	expand	in	our	region.

includes	$1.5	million	for	low-income	
customer	programs	such	as	Share	the	
Warmth,	Cooling	Assistance	and	Fan	
Relief,	$2	million	for	the	support	of	educa-
tional	initiatives	in	North	Carolina,	and	
approximately	$772,000	for	the	support	
of	educational	initiatives	and	public	assis-
tance	programs	in	South	Carolina.

Low-income	energy	assistance		
programs	in	Ohio	(HeatShare),	Kentucky	
(WinterCare)	and	Indiana	(Helping	Hand)	
received	almost	$750,000	from		
Duke	Energy	and	more	than	$250,000	
from	employee	and	customer	contribu-
tions.	Similar	programs	in	the	Carolinas	–	
like	Share	the	Warmth,	Cooling	Assistance	
and	Fan	Relief	–	are	funded	from	a	variety	
of	sources,	including	customer	and	
employee	contributions	(which	totaled	
more	than	$735,000	in	2009).

As	part	of	the	Catawba-Wateree	
Comprehensive	Relicensing	Agreement	
in	the	Carolinas,	we	invested	$840,000	
to	improve	water	use	and	management,	
and	enhance	aquatic	habitat	and	fish	
populations.

volunteers in action
Although	our	employees	and	retirees	give	
back	to	their	communities	throughout	
the	year,	our	annual	Global	Service	Event	
(GSE)	offers	a	chance	to	make	a	concerted	
impact	on	the	communities	we	serve.

GSE	is	a	companywide	grassroots	service	
campaign.	Employees	and	retirees	identify	
needs	in	the	community,	organize	projects,	
recruit	volunteers	and	provide	leadership	
during	service	events.

We	estimate	approximately	3,500		
Duke	Energy	employees,	retirees	and		
their	family	members	and	friends	partici-
pated	in	about	450	community	projects	
between	April	and	June	2009.	All	told,	
their	efforts	supported	nearly	320	chari-
table	organizations.

a Duke energy international employee in 
argentina volunteers in the community.

“school of the future” in guatemala
Duke energy international employees in 
Guatemala launched an educational program 
called “escuela del Futuro” – or “school of  
the Future” – in 2009. the program aims 
to educate students on power generation 
technology and encourage them to develop  
their technical, analytical and leadership skills.

escuela del Futuro combines classroom 
sessions with hands-on training and field visits 
to our las palmas power generation facility.

Web eXclusive content

	 Duke energy Makes site selection’s list 
of top utilities in economic Development

	 Duke energy among top 10 u.s. 

Companies for support of the arts

Video: power reliability and affordability 
Help Duke energy persuade ibM to build 
new Data Center in n.C.

	 Duke energy Donates solar panels

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   S T R O N G   C O M M U N I T I E S

35

	
governance and transparencY

5

challenges
  Maintain strong financial performance despite decreased electric sales
  Achieve timely and constructive regulatory recovery of our investments

opportunities
  Continue to earn high corporate governance ratings
  Leverage technology to better engage our stakeholders on key issues

2009 and earlY 2010 highlights
  Grew dividend approximately 4 percent in 2009
  Outperformed the Philadelphia Utility Index in total shareholder return

  Reduced operating and maintenance expenses by more 

than $150 million

despite challenges, duke energy 
achieves financial goals
A	struggling	economy	may	have	dampened	
sales,	but	aggressive	cost	control	and	
excellent	power	plant	and	other	operational	
performance	helped	Duke	Energy	achieve	
strong	financial	results	in	2009.

Our	total	shareholder	return	–	the	change	
in	stock	price	plus	dividends	–	was	up	22	
percent	for	the	year,	once	again	helping	
us	outperform	our	peers.	The	Philadelphia	
Utility	Index,	which	includes	Duke	Energy	
and	19	of	its	peers,	saw	only	a	10	percent	
gain	in	total	shareholder	return	in	2009.	
For	the	past	three	years,	we	have	posted	a	
positive	total	shareholder	return	of	around	
4	percent,	while	the	utility	index	dropped	
nearly	5	percent.

Duke	Energy	paid	a	quarterly	cash	
dividend	on	its	common	stock	in	2009	–	
for	the	83rd	consecutive	year.	Even	though	
our	adjusted	earnings	have	been	essen-
tially	flat	over	the	last	three	years,	we	grew	
our	dividend	an	average	of	approximately	
4	percent	each	year.

Our	2009	financial	performance	is	
noteworthy,	given	the	impact	of	the	
economy	on	our	electricity	sales.	Industrial	
sales	volumes	declined	by	approximately	
14	percent	year-over-year,	on	a	weather-
normalized	basis.	However,	fourth-quarter	
2009	industrial	sales	dropped	less	than	5	

financial highlights (in Millions eXCept For per-sHare Data)1

Total	Operating	Revenues

Total	Operating	Expenses

Net	Income	Attributable	to		
Duke	Energy	Corporation

Earnings	Per	Share,	Diluted

Dividends	Per	Share

Total	Assets

Long-Term	Debt	Including	Capital	
Leases,	Less	Current	Maturities

2006

$10,607

$9,210

$1,863

$1.57

$1.26

$68,700

$18,118

2007

$12,720

$10,222

$1,500

$1.18

$0.86

$49,686

$9,498

2008

$13,207

$10,765

$1,362

$1.07

$0.90

$53,077

$13,250

2009

$12,731

$10,518

$1,075

$0.83

$0.94

$57,040

$16,113

1    see 2009 Duke energy annual report / Form 10-K Financial Highlights for detailed notes and explanations of figures above.

percent	from	the	same	period	in	the	prior	
year,	a	pace	of	decline	that	was	slower	
than	earlier	in	2009	as	the	economy	
showed	signs	of	continued	stabilization.

We	were	able	to	achieve	solid	2009	
results	by	exceeding	our	$150	million	
target	for	reducing	operating	and	mainte-
nance	costs,	and	by	improving	the	opera-
tional	performance	of	our	generation	fleet.

sustainability in the supply chain
In	2008,	a	group	of	electric	utilities	
came	together	to	discuss	how	they	could	
collaborate	on	reducing	the	environmental	
impact	of	the	products	and	services	used	
by	the	industry,	as	well	as	the	utilities’	
supply	chain	operations.	The	group	felt	it	
could	more	effectively	accomplish	these	
goals	by	working	together,	and	formed	the	
Electric	Utility	Industry	Sustainable	Supply	

Chain	Alliance.	The	nonprofit	alliance	
includes	more	than	a	dozen	member	
utilities	and	is	recognized	as	a	standards	
development	organization	by	the	U.S.	
Department	of	Justice.

To	date,	the	alliance	has	developed	
environmental	best	practices	and	
conducted	its	first	survey	of	suppliers.	
The	alliance	also	formed	working	groups	
focused	on	reducing	the	environmental	
impacts	of	wood	poles,	wire	and	cable,	
transformers	and	fleet	vehicles.

In	2010,	the	alliance	will	launch	initia-
tives	aimed	at	reducing	greenhouse	gas	
emissions	in	members’	supply	chain	
operations	and	encouraging	suppliers	to	
focus	on	this	objective	in	their	operations,	
as	well.	More	information	on	the	alliance	
is	available	at	www.euissca.org.	

36

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

using social media to  
engage our stakeholders
Staying	connected	with	our	stake-
holders	requires	us	to	continually	
explore	new	methods	of	communica-
tion.	In	2009,	Duke	Energy	expanded	
its	use	of	social	media	to	engage	with	
customers,	employees,	community	
members	–	and	even	our	critics.

	channel	

We’ve	earned	praise	for	publishing	
Twitter	updates	from	the		
@DukeEnergyStorm	
whenever	severe	storms	affect	
our	service	territories.	We	provide	
customers	who	subscribe	to	these	
electronic	bulletins	real-time	informa-
tion,	advice	and	power	restoration	
estimates	–	directly	to	their	cell	phones	
or	computers.

With	this	success,	we	launched	two	
additional	Twitter	feeds	in	2009:		
@DukeEnergyNews	
,	which	distrib-
utes	news	about	our	business,	and		
@EnergyInBalance	
,	which	provides	
advice	on	saving	energy	and	reducing	
costs.	In	2010,	we	also	plan	to	expand	
our	presence	on	YouTube	and	Flickr.

To	spark	thoughtful	dialogue	on	our	
nation’s	energy	policies,	we	launched	
www.sheddingalight.org	
,	an	educa-
tion	and	advocacy	Web	site.	Comments	
and	videos	from	interested	citizens	join	
essays	from	some	of	today’s	foremost	
authorities	on	energy,	environmental	
and	economic	issues.	Because	there	
is	no	single	answer	to	our	country’s	
energy	challenges,	we	welcome	diverse	
opinions	in	the	discussion.

Social	media	are	increasingly	used	
within	the	company	to	connect	
employees	across	functions	and	
locations.	In	2009,	several	hundred	
employees	began	using	secure,	
Web-based	forums	to	share	information	
and	ideas	on	topics	relevant	to		
our	company.	We	have	established	
guidelines	to	help	our	employees	
use	social	media	responsibly	and	
will	continue	to	look	for	ways	to	
make	practical	use	of	these	emerging	
communication	technologies.

economic outlooK

Q&a

lynn good 
Group executive and Chief Financial officer 

Lynn Good	assumed the position of Duke Energy’s 
chief financial officer in June 2009, amidst one of 
the worst recessions in decades. In the following 
Q&A, Good discusses her role in guiding the 
company through the challenging economy, and 
shares her outlook for the nation’s recovery.

Q.  how would you characterize your first  
six months as duke energy’s cfo?
a.  serving as CFo has been both exciting and 
challenging. When i moved into the role, i 
immediately faced challenges associated with 
the economic downturn and the need to manage 
our costs and capital. Working in my favor was 
the strength of Duke energy’s balance sheet, 
which has served us well during the recent 
market uncertainty.

Q.  What adjustments did duke energy make  
in 2009 as a result of the downturn?
a.   During 2009, we experienced the effects of a 
downturn so severe, many labeled it “the  
Great recession.” on a weather-normalized 
basis, our customers’ demand for power was 
down approximately 4 percent, primarily due  
to double-digit declines in industrial load.  

as a result, we had to react very quickly by 
“right-sizing” the cost structure of our business to 
address economic realities. We raised our opera-
tions and maintenance cost reduction target from 
$100 million to $150 million. We also set a goal to 
cut our planned capital expenditures by between 
$200 million and $300 million. i was very pleased 
that our management team and employees were 
able to meet both of these goals. 

We will need to maintain this focus in 2010. 
We launched a program in the first quarter that 
enables employees in select functions to volun-
tarily separate from the company. these and other 
new initiatives will help us achieve sustainable 
cost savings.

Q.  how are changes in the credit markets 
affecting duke energy’s growth plans?
a.   For many companies, access to credit remains 

tight. Fortunately, the strength of our credit ratings 
gave us tremendous access to the credit markets 
at favorable rates in 2009, when we issued $3.75 
billion of fixed-rate debt at a weighted-average 
rate of 5.2 percent. this access allows us to 
continue modernizing our generation fleet and 
making other investments that help us achieve 
our mission of providing customers with clean, 
reliable and affordable energy.

Q.   What is your outlook on the economy over  

a. 

the next year and beyond?
i believe we will continue to face a challenging 
economic environment in 2010. until we see 
some meaningful improvement in employment 
levels, it will be difficult for consumers to resume 
spending. the lack of consumer spending will 
slow economic recovery. However, i do think we’re 
seeing signs of stabilization. Hopefully, the worst 
is behind us. With manufacturing inventories at 
low levels and continued weakness in the u.s. 
dollar, there is potential for rapid growth in the 
industrial sector. overall, i’d say i am cautiously 
optimistic about our nation’s prospects for near-
term recovery.

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   G O V E R N A N C E   A N D   T R A N S P A R E N C Y

37

 
 
 
governance ratings remain strong
We	regularly	benchmark	our	corporate	governance	practices	against	best-in-class	
and	industry	peers.	Here	is	how	we	compared	in	ratings	from	several	independent	
organizations:

governance ratings
Rating Organization

The Corporate Library

	TCL	Rating

	Governance	Risk	Assessment

2006

2007

2008

2009/2010

Scale

RiskMetrics Group – Corporate Governance Quotient

	Index	Ranking

	Industry	Ranking

13.8

30.7

91.1

93.6

GovernanceMetrics International

B

Low

B

Low

B

Low

82.5

90.1

B1

Low1

88.32

93.62

*A-F	(no	E)

*Low,	Mod,	High

0-*100

0-*100

	Overall	Global	Rating

9.0

9.5

9.5

9.03

0-*10

1   as of December 2009. published with permission of the Corporate library llC. ©2010 the Corporate library, llC. all rights reserved.  
2   as of December 2009. published with permission of riskMetrics Group.
3   as of March 2010. published with permission of GovernanceMetrics international.

*  reflects best rating.

listening to our customers
Above	all	else,	electricity	must	be	reliable	
and	affordable	–	that’s	what	residents	in	
the	Carolinas	and	the	Midwest	told	us	in	
2009.

As	part	of	our	ongoing	stakeholder	engage-
ment,	Duke	Energy	conducts	independent	
polling	on	energy	issues	with	households	
in	North	Carolina,	South	Carolina,	Indiana,	
Kentucky	and	Ohio.	The	surveys,	carried	
out	by	FrederickPolls,	give	us	valuable	
feedback	on	our	mission	of	providing	
customers	with	energy	that’s	affordable,	
reliable	and	increasingly	clean.

Residents	in	the	states	we	serve	consider	
reliability	and	reasonable	cost	to	be	the	
two	most	important	factors	when	it	comes	
to	electricity.	In	addition,	a	vast	majority	of	
respondents	said	they	support	retiring	and	
replacing	aging	power	plants	with	newer,	
more	modern	technology.

The	surveys	also	reveal	a	growing	belief	
that	rising	demand	for	electricity	can	be	
met	through	conservation	rather	than	
by	building	more	power	plants.	Another	
popular	option:	generating	electricity	from	
renewable	resources	like	wind	and	solar	
energy.	However,	survey	results	indicate	
that	respondents	may	not	necessarily	be	
aware	of	the	higher	costs	associated	with	
renewable	power,	compared	to	generation	
from	traditional	fuels	like	coal,	nuclear	and	
natural	gas.

Here	are	a	few	additional	conclusions		
from	the	surveys:

In	the	Carolinas,	almost	60	percent	
of	respondents	expressed	support	
for	the	continued	construction	of	our	
new	825-megawatt	(MW)	advanced	
pulverized-coal	unit	at	the	Cliffside	
Steam	Station.	

	 Approximately	71	percent	of	South	
Carolinians	polled	support	our	

proposed	2,234-MW	William		
States	Lee	III	Nuclear	Station	in	
Cherokee	County.
In	Indiana,	roughly	three-quarters	
of	respondents	approve	of	our	
construction	of	a	630-MW	integrated	
gasification	combined-cycle	plant		
in	Edwardsport.

global reporting initiative
The	Global	Reporting	Initiative	(GRI)	
is	an	internationally	accepted	framework	
of	economic,	environmental	and	social	
performance	indicators.	We	provide	a	
detailed	response	to	the	GRI	indicators		
on	our	Web	site.	

Below	we	provide	a	summary	index	to		
the	GRI	indicators.	With	this	report	and	
our	online	information,	we	believe	we	
meet	GRI	Guidelines	Application	Level	B.

	 Standard	Disclosures	(pp.	2-9,	13)
	 Economic	Indicators	(pp.	4,	5-9,	36,	

37,	40)

	 Environmental	Indicators	(pp.	22-29)
	 Product	Responsibility	Indicators

(pp.	2-9,	16-21)

	 Labor	Practices	and	Decent	Work	

Indicators	(pp.	30-32)

	 Human	Rights	Indicators	–	Please	see	
our	index	at:	http://www.duke-energy.
com/sustainability/human-rights-
indicators.asp

	 Society	Indicators	(pp.	33-35,	38)

Web eXclusive content

political involvement
	 Diverse supplier spending
	 Duke energy one of World’s Most ethical Companies

	 Maintaining an ethical Culture

stakeholder expectations and Fulfillments
tough Decisions regarding Memberships
partnerships and Memberships

	 Duke energy Joins aspen institute’s Call

Company Communications on Climate Change

Video: Ceo Jim rogers’ reflections on 2009

38

  icon denotes additional content online at sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
independent revieW

Business	for	Social	Responsibility	(BSR)		
is	pleased	to	provide	the	following	
independent	review	of	Duke	Energy’s	
2009|2010	Sustainability	Report.	Our	
perspective	is	informed	by	our	experi-
ence	with	sustainability	issues	in	the	
energy	sector,	knowledge	of	reporting	
best	practices	and	familiarity	with	Duke	
Energy’s	reporting	approach	over	the	past	
four	years.	It	should	be	noted	that	this	
review	neither	verifies	nor	expresses	an	
opinion	on	the	accuracy,	materiality	or	
completeness	of	information	provided	in	
this	report.

Key	strengths	we	observed	in	the	
2009|2010	report	include:

	 A truly integrated approach to 

reporting	that	more	effectively	capital-
izes	on	the	unique	strengths	of	print	
and	online	media.	Use	of	Web	content	
for	background	information,	detailed	
treatment	of	key	issues,	illustrative	
cases,	and	interactive	features	allow	
for	more	focused	communication	of	
performance	on	material	issues	in	the	
printed	report,	while	maintaining	the	
option	for	readers	to	dive	into	greater	
depth.	Online	updates	provide	timely	
information	throughout	the	year	and	
social	media	establish	new	avenues	
for	dialogue.	Visual	prompts	such	as	
the	computer	mouse	icon	and	call-out	
boxes	in	the	printed	version	effectively	
bridge	the	two	formats	and	emphasize	
their	complementary	nature.

	 Open discussion of lessons learned 

and unresolved challenges.	
Constructing	a	path	toward	a	lower-
carbon	energy	portfolio	in	a	climate		
of	technological	and	regulatory	
uncertainty	is	challenging.	Inclusion	
of	insights	from	the	company’s	energy	
efficiency	initiative	and	discussion	of	
low	consumer	investment	in	renewable	
energy	programs	demonstrate	trans-
parency	and	balanced	treatment	of	
learning	and	failure,	as	well	as	success	
along	the	way.

	 Enhancement of stakeholder voices.	
Our	last	two	reviews	highlighted	inclu-
sion	of	stakeholder	voices	as	a	key	
area	for	improvement.	We	saw	multiple	
examples	in	this	year’s	report	that	fulfill	
this	objective:	interviews	with	senior	
management,	the	Five	Viewpoints	
dialogue	and	the	reprint	of	the	RMI	
case	study.	We	hope	to	see	Duke	
Energy	continue	this	practice	in	future	
reports,	and	to	refine	its	use	to	share	
new	insights	and	critical	perspectives.

In	next	year’s	report,	we	encourage		
Duke	Energy	to:

	 Better track and explain evolving 

strategies and targets.	Duke	Energy’s	
sustainability	goals	are	aspirational,	
and	the	specific	strategies	and	targets	
set	to	reach	them	should	evolve	
over	time	to	reflect	the	realities	of	
implementation	and	spur	continuous	
improvement.	Acknowledging	this,	
the	company	has	refined	the	objec-
tives	that	support	its	goals	over	the	
past	three	years,	most	notably	its	
carbon-reduction	scenario.	However,	
the	2009|2010	report	did	not	provide	
sufficient	information	about	the	status	
of	previous	objectives	or	the	rationale	
behind	new	objectives	and	revised	
targets.	Continuity	between	reports	
is	critical	to	communicating	a	picture	
of	performance,	and	ties	together	
past	and	present	achievement	with	a	
roadmap	for	the	future.

	 Report holistically and concretely on 
climate policy advocacy.	Failure	to	
reach	an	international	agreement	on	
carbon	reduction	at	Copenhagen	and	
a	growing	sense	of	urgency	around	
advancement	of	climate	change	legisla-
tion	at	the	national	level	are	renewing	
stakeholder	interest	in	business’s	role	
in	policy	advocacy.	Leading	practice	
in	reporting	is	also	evolving	to	better	
capture	the	full	spectrum	of	companies’	
contributions	to	policy	development,	

including	technical	input	to	policy	
design	and	implementation,	education	
to	raise	voter	awareness,	and	legal	
briefs,	along	with	traditional	measures,	
such	as	financial	support	for	candi-
dates	and	lobbying.	While	the	current	
report	articulates	Duke	Energy’s	priori-
ties	for	national	climate	legislation,	
more	holistic	communication	of		
Duke	Energy’s	specific	engagement	
activities	will	be	of	particular	interest		
in	the	coming	year.

	 Address potential adverse environ-
mental impacts of new renewable 
energy technologies,	specifically	
biomass	and	offshore	wind	develop-
ment.	Direct	discussion	of	actual	or	
potential	impacts	will	enhance	public	
understanding	of	the	tradeoffs	associ-
ated	with	these	lesser-known	technolo-
gies	and	allow	comparison	with	other	
energy	generation	options.

We	enter	2010	with	considerable	uncer-
tainty	for	the	energy	industry	in	the	United	
States	–	economic,	legislative	and	techno-
logical.	What	is	certain	is	the	critical	role	
that	sustainability	will	play	in	navigating	
the	decisions	necessary	to	move	toward	
a	low-carbon	energy	future	and	long-term	
business	success.	We	look	forward	to	
learning	how	Duke	Energy	is	charting	its	
course	in	future	reports.

Julia Ka’iulani Nelson
Manager, Energy & Extractives
Business for Social Responsibility
April 6, 2010

2 0 0 9 | 2 0 1 0 	 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 	 R E P O R T 	 »   I N D E P E N D E N T   R E V I E W

39

contact information
We	welcome	your	comments	and	questions		
about	this	report.	Send	any	feedback	to:

Roberta	Bowman
Senior	Vice	President	and		
Chief	Sustainability	Officer
Duke	Energy,	526	South	Church	Street
Mail	Code:	EC06B,	Charlotte,	NC	28202
sustainability@duke-energy.com
sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com

non-gaap financial measures
adjusted diluted earnings per share (“eps”)
Duke energy’s 2009-2010 sustainability report references 2009 adjusted diluted eps of 
$1.22. adjusted diluted eps is a non-Gaap (generally accepted accounting principles) 
financial measure as it represents diluted eps from continuing operations attributable 
to Duke energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per share impact of 
special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial 
power segment. special items represent certain charges and credits which management 
believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such 
charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market 
impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in Gaap earnings immediately as such 
derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in 
Duke energy’s hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets 
in the Commercial power segment. the economic value of the generation assets is subject 
to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodi-
ties (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and 
sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. because the 
operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, manage-
ment believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge 
contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts 
of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged 
asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted eps provides useful 
information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the 
company’s performance across periods. adjusted diluted eps is also used as a basis for 
employee incentive bonuses.

the most directly comparable Gaap measure for adjusted diluted eps is reported 
diluted eps from continuing operations attributable to Duke energy Corporation common 
shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts 
of economic hedges in the Commercial power segment. the following is a reconciliation of 
reported diluted eps from continuing operations to adjusted diluted eps for 2009:

Diluted eps from continuing operations, as reported 
Diluted eps from discontinued operations, as reported   
Diluted eps from extraordinary items, as reported 
Diluted eps, as reported 
adjustments to reported eps: 
Diluted eps from discontinued operations 
Diluted eps from extraordinary items 
Diluted eps impact of special items and  
  mark-to-market in Commercial power (see below)  
diluted eps, adjusted 

2009
$0.82
0.01
—
$0.83

(0.01)
—

0.40
$1.22

the following is the detail of the $(0.40) per share in special items and mark-to-market in 
Commercial power impacting adjusted diluted eps for 2009:

pre-tax 
(in millions, except per-share amounts) 
amount 
$  (25) 
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger 
Crescent related guarantees and tax adjustments  (26) 
(32) 
international transmission adjustment 
(431) 
Goodwill and other impairments 
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges 
(60) 
total adjusted eps impact 

tax 
effect 
$10 
(3) 
10 
21 
22 

2009 Diluted 
eps impact
           $(0.01)
(0.02)
(0.02)
(0.32)
(0.03)
         $(0.40)

Printed	on	Mohawk	Via,	which	is	made	from	100%	post-consumer		
recycled	fiber.	
and	is	manufactured	free	of	chlorine	chemistry.

	This	paper	is	made	with	Green-e	Certified	wind	power	

forward-looking information
this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the 
securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. Forward-
looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions. these forward-
looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” 
“intend,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” 
“predict,” “will,” “potential,” “forecast,” “target” and similar expressions. Forward-looking 
statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially 
different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not 
limited to: state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of 
compliance with existing and future environmental requirements; state, federal and foreign 
legislative and regulatory initiatives including costs of compliance with existing and future 
environmental requirements, as well as rulings that affect cost and investment recovery 
or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative 
proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential 
growth in Duke energy’s service territories, customer base or customer usage patterns; 
additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political 
and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke energy conducts business; the 
influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke energy’s operations, including 
the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornados; 
the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency 
exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and 
electric transmission system constraints; the performance of electric generation and of 
projects undertaken by Duke energy’s non-regulated businesses; the results of financing 
efforts, including Duke energy’s ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which 
can be affected by various factors, including Duke energy’s credit ratings and general 
economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash 
funding requirements for Duke energy’s defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit-
worthiness of counterparties to Duke energy’s transactions; employee workforce factors, 
including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities 
for Duke energy’s business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop 
domestic and international power and other projects; construction and development risks 
associated with the completion of Duke energy’s capital investment projects in existing 
and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying 
with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying 
operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs 
from customers in a timely manner or at all; the effect of accounting pronouncements 
issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully 
complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. 

in light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-
looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different 
time than Duke energy has described. Duke energy undertakes no obligation to publicly 
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
