2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ENERGY 

 FOR A BETTER TOMORROW

Table of Contents
2020 | 2021 Recognitions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   2
  3
A Message From Our CEO  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

A Message From Our CSO  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

  5

Duke Energy At A Glance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   7

Conducting Business in the Era  
of COVID-19 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   10

Our Strategy:  
Clean Energy Transformation .  .  .  .  .  .  .   12

Our Value Creation Model  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

  13

Our Stakeholders and  
What Matters Most  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   15

Our Sustainability Plan and Goals  .  .  .   17

Management Approach  
to Sustainability  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

  20

Environmental  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   21

Social  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

  40

Governance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   53

2020 | 2021 Recognitions

 ■ For the 15th consecutive year, 
Duke Energy was named to the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 
North America. Duke Energy is 
one of only seven companies in our 
sector to make the index.

 ■ Duke Energy was named to Fortune magazine’s “World’s Most Admired 
Companies” list in 2021 for the fourth consecutive year. This year the 
company ranked 7th among gas and electric utilities.

 ■ Forbes magazine included Duke Energy in its America’s Best Employers 

for Women list for 2020 and its Best Employers for Diversity list 
for 2020.

 ■ Forbes magazine included Duke Energy in its 2020 list for Best-In-State 
Employers in North Carolina, ranking the company 12th out of 100 
employers on the list.

 ■ Duke Energy received a perfect score for the fourth year in a row on the 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2021 Corporate Equality Index, 
earning inclusion on the organization’s list of Best Places to Work for 
LGBTQ Equality.

 ■ Duke Energy received the 2020 AMVETS Veteran Friendly Employer 
of the Year Award for North Carolina, for companies with more than 
1,000 employees.

 ■ Labrador Advisory Services ranked Duke Energy No. 7 overall and in 

the top three among U.S. utilities for investor transparency.

 ■ For the 16th consecutive year, Site Selection magazine named 
Duke Energy a Top Utility in Economic Development for project 
investment and affiliated job creation in our service territories.

 ■ The Ethisphere Institute recognized Duke Energy with its Compliance 

Leader Verification for 2019 and 2020, honoring the company’s leading 
ethics and compliance programs. Duke Energy is the first U.S. electric 
and gas investor-owned utility to earn this designation.

2 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

LYNN J. GOOD

Chair, President and 
Chief Executive Officer

We became a stronger, 
more agile company, 
intensifying our focus 
on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) 
considerations and 
accelerating our clean 
energy transformation.

A Message From Our CEO

In a year that posed nearly every imaginable challenge, including the global 
COVID-19 pandemic, extreme weather, uncertain economic conditions 
and social unrest, providing safe, reliable and affordable electricity for our 
communities was never more critical. And our company’s purpose – to 
power the lives of our customers and the vitality of our communities – was 
never more relevant and important than in 2020.

I’m proud that we delivered for our customers and communities when they 
needed us the most. But we did more than just get through. We became 
a stronger, more agile company, intensifying our focus on environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) considerations and accelerating our clean 
energy transformation.

During our inaugural ESG Investor Day this past fall, we demonstrated our 
progress and showed the promise of more to come, outlining a pathway 
for achieving our clean energy transition. We have a clear vision, centered 
around our climate strategy, with bold carbon goals – reduce emissions 
from electricity generation at least 50 percent by 2030 and achieve 
net-zero by 2050. And we announced a new pledge to achieve net-zero 
methane emissions by 2030 for our natural gas distribution companies.

We’re also doing our part to create a lasting impact in the area of social 
responsibility, using our voice and actions to ensure social justice and 
racial equity within our company, as well as in the communities we serve. 
And we believe purpose-driven leadership means delivering results the 
right way, consistent with our culture of effective governance.

ESG gives us a clear way to bring our purpose to life and deliver on our 
commitments to those who count on us.

3 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

2020 Accomplishments 

The last year underscored the extraordinary progress 
we’ve made in delivering sustainable value to our investors 
and communities:

 ■ Surpassed 40 percent carbon emissions 

reductions since 2005 and remained a leader in 
low-carbon intensity.

 ■ Continued to oversee the largest coal closure in 

our industry. Having already retired approximately 
6,500 megawatts since 2010, we plan to retire all 
coal-only units by 2030 in the Carolinas and shorten 
average retirement dates by 40 percent in Indiana. 

 ■ Contracted, owned or operated 8.8 gigawatts of 

renewable energy with plans to roughly double that 
amount by 2025, and by 2030, triple our current 
renewable capacity for our regulated utilities.

 ■ Announced plans to invest $600 million in new battery 
storage investments across our regulated businesses 
over the next five years.

 ■ Developed the most comprehensive Integrated 

Resource Plans (IRPs) we’ve ever filed in the Carolinas 
and engaged stakeholders in new ways through the 
North Carolina Clean Energy Plan process and Indiana 
21st Century Energy Task Force to ensure a cleaner 
energy future in our states.

 ■ Achieved a milestone settlement, alongside the North 
Carolina Attorney General, North Carolina Public Staff 
and Sierra Club, around coal ash cost recovery. It 
will provide immediate and long-term cost benefits 
for customers over the next decade, resolving all the 
remaining major issues on coal ash management in 
North Carolina.

 ■ Worked with solar developers in the Carolinas to 

fundamentally change the interconnection process in 
North Carolina and design a breakthrough net-metering 
framework in South Carolina.

 ■ Accelerated the expansion of electric vehicle charging 
infrastructure, including more than 570 charging 
stations installed to date in Florida and pilot program 
approvals in North Carolina and South Carolina.

 ■ Donated more than $8 million from our company 

and Foundation to COVID-19 relief efforts, including 
funds to support hunger relief, local health and human 
services, educational initiatives, public utility assistance 
and small businesses.

 ■ Supported customers impacted by the pandemic, 
instituting one of the first service disconnection 
moratoriums in the nation, offering flexible payment 
arrangements and engaging state and federal 
government for additional customer assistance.

 ■ Renewed our focus on social justice and racial equity, 

donating more than $2 million to organizations 
supporting these issues and developing company 
action plans to drive more diversity, equity and 
inclusion in our workforce, leadership, supply chain 
and communities.

Energy for a Better Tomorrow 

I am grateful for how our employees responded to the 
challenges of 2020 and excited for what lies ahead for 
Duke Energy. Unencumbered by issues of the past, we 
now have a clear destination – net-zero carbon emissions 
by 2050.

We look forward to working alongside regulators, 
policymakers and the new administration to achieve this 
goal and deliver results on key ESG measures. Together, 
we have a shared vision to realize a cleaner energy future 
in a way that preserves affordability and reliability for 
those we serve.

As you read this report, I hope you see that Duke 
Energy has an even brighter future ahead because of 
our commitment to sustainability, our customers and 
our communities.

Lynn J. Good 
Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer

April 28, 2021

4 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

KATHERINE NEEBE 

Chief Sustainability Officer 
Vice President, National Engagement 
and Strategy 
President, Duke Energy Foundation

This year sharpened 
our focus on how we 
create value for our 
stakeholders and help 
solve for societal issues.

A Message From Our CSO

Looking back at 2020, it was a year no one will forget. From the global 
pandemic to a focus on racial inequity to the economic crisis, it was a 
year that brought challenges for so many. At the same time, I saw how 
powerfully businesses – particularly an essential service like ours – pivoted 
to transform their workforce, supply chains, and customer and community 
programs to meet these challenges head on. By leveraging technology, 
innovation and new ways of working, we held fast to our mission to 
provide reliable, affordable and increasingly cleaner energy. This year 
sharpened our focus on how we create value for our stakeholders and help 
solve for societal issues.

With safety at our core, in March 2020, the company took comprehensive 
steps to help employees, customers and communities respond to the 
impacts of COVID-19. Among our efforts, to help address the economic 
hardships our customers may be facing, we waived late payment fees and 
discontinued service disconnections for unpaid bills. Our company and 
Foundation also provided more than $8 million to support public utility 
assistance and basic needs such as hunger relief and micro-loans for small 
businesses while also strengthening the systems our communities depend 
upon in times of crisis.

For our employees, we implemented workplace disinfection and social 
distancing practices and provided workers with personal protective 
equipment, following guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. Employees leveraged technology to minimize personal contact 
and do our part to help mitigate the spread of the virus, including enabling 
nearly all customer care representatives to work from home. Beyond 
implementing extensive workplace safety measures, we provided resources 
and enhanced benefits to support our workers’ mental and physical health.

5 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

We have listened, 
learned and adjusted to 
our customer, community 
and employee needs over 
the past year and while 
the crisis isn’t over, we 
are better positioned to 
support those we serve.

The events of 2020 also illuminated the issue of systemic racism and inequity 
many Americans face. We continued our journey to be a more equitable, inclusive 
and transparent company. Across the enterprise, we held more than 500 formal 
conversations to hear the questions and concerns of our employees. We are focused on 
our diversity goals and being transparent about our progress, including releasing data 
contained in our consolidated 2020 EEO-1 report (filed with the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission), along with this report. Through the Duke Energy Foundation, 
we also committed more than $2 million to social justice and racial equity organizations. 
However, more work is needed, and we continue to engage with local organizations and 
other stakeholders to understand how to be a part of the long-term solution.

This fall we held our inaugural ESG Investor Day, where we shared important updates 
on our environmental, social responsibility and governance work. You will notice this 
year’s Sustainability Report follows an ESG framework. I’m also excited to share that this 
year marks the 15th year we’ve publicly reported on our progress to address important 
societal issues, such as climate change.

As we look forward, there are real issues to tackle as we look at the clean energy 
transition and how we achieve our ambitious climate goals – net-zero methane emissions 
from our gas business by 2030 and net-zero carbon emissions from electricity generation 
by 2050. And, we have the opportunity to create meaningful change through our energy 
transformation as well as our participation in the global climate discussion through events 
like the Glasgow COP. We will also focus on how to build resiliency and equity in a 
post-pandemic world.

We have listened, learned and adjusted to our customer, community and employee needs 
over the past year and while the crisis isn’t over, we are better positioned to support 
those we serve. I am excited to be part of the team that delivers a cleaner energy future 
for all.

Katherine Neebe 
Chief Sustainability Officer
Vice President, National Engagement and Strategy
President, Duke Energy Foundation

April 28, 2021

6 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Duke Energy At A Glance

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure
Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1 

42
33
17
8

39
37 
22 
2

Generated (net output gigawatt-hours (GWh))2

Customer Diversity (in billed GWh sales)2

Natural Gas Customer Diversity
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure conducts natural gas 
distribution operations primarily through the regulated public 
utilities of Piedmont Natural Gas and Duke Energy Ohio .

Natural Gas Operations (throughput)2

 ¡ Regulated natural gas transmission and distribution services 
to approximately 1 .6 million customers in the Carolinas, 
Tennessee, southwestern Ohio and Northern Kentucky

 ¡ Maintains more than 34,200 miles of natural gas 

transmission and distribution pipelines and 27,200 
miles of natural gas service pipelines

Commercial Renewables

51
18
15
9
7

52
46
3

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure conducts operations primarily 
through the regulated public utilities of Duke Energy Carolinas, 
Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana and 
Duke Energy Ohio .

Electric Operations
 ¡ Owns approximately 50,807 megawatts (MW) of generating capacity

 ¡ Service area covers about 91,000 square miles with an estimated 

population of 25 million 

 ¡ Service to approximately 7 .9 million residential, commercial  

and industrial customers 

 ¡ 282,400 miles of distribution lines and a 31,300-mile 

transmission system

1  As of December 31, 2020 . 
2  For the year ended December 31, 2020 .
3  Contains projects included in tax equity structures where investors have differing 
interests in the projects’ economic attributes (100% of the tax equity projects’ capacity 
is included) .

Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1,3
Commercial Renewables primarily acquires, develops, builds 
and operates wind and solar renewable generation throughout 
the continental U .S . The portfolio includes nonregulated 
renewable energy and energy storage businesses .

Commercial Renewables’ renewable energy includes utility-scale 
wind and solar generation assets, distributed solar generation assets, 
distributed fuel cell assets and a battery storage project, which total 
2,763 MW across 21 states from 21 wind facilities, 150 solar projects, 
70 fuel cell locations and two battery storage facilities . The power 
produced from renewable generation is primarily sold through long-
term contracts to utilities, electric cooperatives, municipalities and 
corporate customers .

As part of its growth strategy, Commercial Renewables has expanded 
its investment portfolio through the addition of distributed solar 
companies and projects, energy storage systems and energy 
management solutions specifically tailored to commercial businesses.

7 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

 42% Natural Gas/Fuel Oil 33% Coal 17% Nuclear 8% Hydro and Renewable 39% Natural Gas/Fuel Oil 37% Nuclear 22% Coal 2% Hydro and Renewable 34% Residential 30% General Services 19% Industrial 17% Wholesale/Other 51% Power Gen 18% General Services 15% Residential 9% Industrial 7% Other52% Wind 46% Solar 2% Fuel Cell/Storage  
Duke Energy At A Glance 
CONTINUED

Utility Service Territories*

  Duke Energy Indiana
  Duke Energy Ohio/Kentucky
  Duke Energy Carolinas/Progress
  Piedmont Natural Gas
   Overlapping territory  
(Duke Energy/Piedmont Natural Gas)
  Duke Energy Florida

*Portions of some counties served by other utilities .

8 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Duke Energy At A Glance 
CONTINUED

Commercial and Regulated Renewable Projects

Michigan
Michigan

North Carolina
North Carolina

   Solar power projects
   Wind power projects
   Battery storage facilities
   Solar plus storage facilities

   Microgrid
   Operated and/or monitored  for third-party owners
     Under construction

* Denotes Duke Energy Renewables Commercial LLC 
solar locations .

As of December 31, 2020 .

Florida
Florida

9 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our priorities became 
clear early on: take care 
of our customers and 
protect the health and 
safety of our employees.

Conducting Business in the Era 
of COVID-19

The COVID-19 pandemic impacted every 
aspect of Duke Energy’s business and 
the lives of its employees and customers 
in 2020. Our priorities became clear 
early on: take care of our customers 
and protect the health and safety of 
our employees.

Beginning in March 2020, Duke Energy 
took early and swift action to assist 
its 7.9 million electric and 1.6 million 
natural gas customers. We were one of 
the first utilities to proactively suspend 
disconnections in all jurisdictions for 
customers who were unable to pay their 
bills. We also waived fees for late and 
returned payments; and, for residential 
customers, waived fees for credit and 
debit card payments. In addition, we 
made the first of many donations to 
COVID-19 relief efforts to assist our 
local communities.

As the year progressed, the company 
began offering additional support:

 ■ We rolled out online tools so 

customers could select an extended 
payment plan that best fits 
their needs.

 ■ The company simplified the process 

for accessing the Low Income 
Home Energy Assistance Program 
and other funds available through 
community agencies.

 ■ Duke Energy provided professional 

guidance for small business customers 
to help analyze their energy usage, 
discuss energy rates and identify 
solutions to lower their bills as they 
were reopening.

 ■ We extended the suspension of credit 

and debit card payment fees for 
residential customers for an additional 
two months, once billing and payment 
practices resumed in their states.

 ■ Duke Energy and its Foundation 
donated more than $8 million to 
COVID-19 relief efforts during 2020. 

The company also proactively contacted 
customers to offer flexible payment plans 
and information about how to connect 
with local assistance agencies to manage 
their delinquent accounts. 

10 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Conducting Business in the Era of COVID-19 
CONTINUED

The company continues to focus on 
extending payment flexibility to those 
customers experiencing economic 
hardships from the pandemic. For 
2021, this includes the extension of 
payment arrangements and modified 
reconnection policies.

As an essential service, Duke Energy’s 
employees continued to deliver electricity 
and natural gas to our customers without 
interruption. Employees who could do 
their jobs remotely made a swift transition 
to working from home to help mitigate the 
spread of the virus – including customer 
care representatives. 

However, for field employees and many 
power plant workers who could not 
do their jobs remotely, the company 
put protocols in place to make sure 
employees arrived healthy and worked 
in a safe environment. These protocols 
included social distancing, wellness 
screening questions, temperature checks, 
staggered shifts, enhanced cleaning and 
face covering requirements.

To support our employees’ overall well-
being throughout the pandemic, the 
company provided additional benefits 
to support our workforce, including 
60 additional hours of personal time 
to employees who experienced certain 
disruptions in dependent care, the option 
for more flexible work schedules and a 
$1,500 stipend to assist with unplanned 
expenses resulting from the pandemic for 
employees below a certain pay threshold. 
In addition, the Duke Energy Foundation 
provided more than $550,000 in 
assistance to qualified employees through 
the Relief4Employees program.

Dedicated resource pages for employees 
and managers with COVID-19 information 
served as a hub for all information 
related to the company’s response. 
Sites were updated in real time as the 
crisis continued.

The lessons learned in 2020 will guide 
the company as it continues to provide 
reliable service to our customers and a 
safe work environment for our employees.

11 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our Clean Energy 
Transformation:  
≥50% reduction in CO2 
emissions and net-zero 
methane emissions by 
2030 on the way to 
net‑zero CO2 by 2050

Our Strategy:  
Clean Energy Transformation

As one of the largest electric and gas 
utilities and commercial renewables 
developers in the United States, 
Duke Energy embraces its responsibility 
to power the communities where our 
customers and employees live and work, 
as well as to address the challenges 
associated with climate change. To that 
end, our corporate strategy is one of clean 
energy transformation. 

To deliver on our strategy, we have set 
aggressive enterprisewide emission 
reduction goals – to reduce our carbon 
emissions from electricity generation by at 
least 50 percent and to achieve net-zero 
methane emissions from our natural gas 
distribution businesses by 2030 and, 
importantly, to achieve net-zero emissions 
from electricity generation by 2050.

Duke Energy will focus on three 
core areas that support this clean 
energy transformation:

Shaping the Landscape – Duke Energy 
will partner with stakeholders to 
accelerate clean energy transition with 
communities in mind. It will champion 
public policy that advances innovation 
and regulatory models that support 
carbon and methane reductions, while 
keeping energy affordable and reliable 
for customers.

Safely Transforming and Readying the 
System – Duke Energy will invest in new 
and existing carbon-free technologies 
that modernize the electric and gas 
infrastructure. The company will also 
expand and integrate efficiency and 
demand management programs that help 
customers use energy more wisely.

Delivering Sustainable Value – 
Duke Energy will maintain affordability 
and leverage business transformation 
to exceed customer expectations. The 
company will optimize its portfolio to 
drive attractive shareholder returns. It will 
also provide new offerings and solutions 
that deliver growth.

12 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our Value Creation Model

Major Resources1

Duke Energy begins its value 
creation with the basics: 
A combination of natural 
resources, technology and 
talent creates an essential 
product that enhances 
the world.

Evolving 
Business Model2

As technology advances and 
customer expectations evolve, 
Duke Energy will also evolve. 
The company’s business 
model now is a combination 
of selling electricity, natural 
gas and energy services. It 
encourages customers to better 
manage energy use – and cut 
consumption where possible. 

n
o
i
t
a
c
i
n
u
m
m
o
c

d
n
a

a
t
a
D

~$10.5b
Capital 
investment

27,730
Employees

4,899b
Gallons H2O 
withdrawn

585b
Cubic feet  
natural gas

20m
Tons coal

1,560
Solar

20,348
Natural gas/
oil

1,424
Wind

53,436 
MW

17,641
Coal/oil

3,556
Hydro- 
electric

8,907
Nuclear

 .
y
l
k
c
i
u
q
e
r
o
m
n
o

i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n

i

e
r
o
m

t
n
a
w
s
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

C
h
a
n
g
n
g

i

c

u

s

t

o

m

e

r

e

x

p

e

ct

ations

31,300
Transmission line miles

61,400 Miles 
natural gas distribution, 
transmission and  
service lines

282,400
Distribution line miles

~1.6m
Natural gas 
meters

Solar 
panels

~7.9m
Electric  
meters

Electric 
vehicles

Energy 
efficiency

Energy 
storage

Generation3
Our diverse portfolio is 
one of Duke Energy’s 
strong points .

Transmission
Moving electricity  
from power plants  
to customers –  
a vital part  
of Duke Energy . 

Distribution
New technologies  
mean Duke Energy  
must adjust how  
it delivers to  
customers – it’s not  
one-size-fits-all . 

1  For the year ended December 31, 2020 .
2  As of December 31, 2020
3 

 Data excludes 4,195 MW of purchased capacity from solar, wind, hydro and biomass 
resources, equivalent to approximately 8 percent of Duke Energy’s generation capacity .

Impacts and 
Value Created on 
next page

13 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Value Creation Model
CONTINUED

Mitigating Impacts1

Generating energy creates 
environmental and other 
impacts, and Duke Energy 
aims to reduce them. Our 
recent accomplishments 
have been notable. Our 
mission is to do better.

1
Fatality

Wastes

208
Gallons  
oil spilled

15,832 
Thousand pounds
TRI (Toxic Release 
Inventory) releases

Air emissions

68b
Gallons H2O 
consumed

NOX

43
Thousand  
tons NOX

27
Thousand  
tons SO2

82,000
Thousand  
tons CO2

140,331
Cubic feet  
low-level  
radioactive  
waste  
generated

2,536
Tons  
hazardous  
waste  
generated

22,000
Tons  
solid  
waste  
disposed

Creating Value1

Duke Energy powers 
lives, supports 
communities and 
fuels the economy. 
We believe we can 
create value when our 
business objectives help 
advance societal issues. 
The company builds 
strong communities 
with philanthropic 
contributions, employee 
volunteerism and 
contributing to local 
economies through 
paying taxes and the 
jobs we help attract. 

1  For the year ended December 31, 2020 .

~$11.7b
Value to 
suppliers

~$10.5b
Investment in 
communities

~$4.4b
Salaries and 
benefits

~562
Bcf 
Natural gas

99.97%
Reliability

210m
MWh

~$5b
Dividends 
and interest 
for investors

$49.5m 
Philanthropy

~$1.4b 
Taxes

~150k
Businesses

~1.5m
Homes

~1.1m
Businesses

~7m
Homes

Helped  
Attract  
~18,000
Jobs

Helped  
Attract 
~$9.1b 
Economic  
development

The information presented here is meant to provide an overview of Duke Energy and is not meant to be precise or inclusive of all the company’s inputs and outputs . Please see the 2020 Duke Energy Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for detailed notes and further explanations of financial information and this Sustainability Report for more social and environmental information .

14 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our Stakeholders and What Matters Most 

The Value of Our Stakeholders

What Matters Most

Duke Energy seeks to provide reliable, clean and 
affordable energy that keeps our communities 
moving forward.

But with that mission comes a responsibility to deliver 
smart energy solutions that help our customers 
accomplish their own goals. No matter what those goals 
are, energy is a vital driver to a successful finish line.

Our stakeholder audience is diverse. They include 
customers, shareholders, regulators, environmental 
organizations, social advocates, community agencies, 
elected officials, employees and many others. Each 
stakeholder brings a needed and essential perspective, 
which is vitally important as we develop future energy 
solutions to meet their needs.

Getting those perspectives early and often – and then 
collaborating to develop workable solutions – is essential. 
We seek that input in many formal and informal ways. 
They range from remote interactions, one-on-one 
meetings, open houses with the public or Advisory or 
Listening Councils.

With so much at stake, securing and transforming our 
collective energy future depends on hearing many voices. 
Our commitment to make a positive impact on our 
communities keeps us focused on listening, learning and 
adjusting to better meet the needs of those we serve.

Duke Energy’s approach to sustainability focuses 
on the issues that are most important to our 
stakeholders and to us. We identify issues from a 
variety of sources such as stakeholder feedback, 
surveys, reporting and rating frameworks, thought 
leader perspectives, social and traditional media 
coverage, and shareholder proposals in our sector.

We have mapped our priority issues to the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aim to 
“end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity 
for all.” Since their development in 2015, the 17 SDGs 
have gained traction with stakeholders concerned about 
sustainability issues. While there was alignment between 
our priorities and several of the SDGs, goals such as 
“Seven: Affordable and Clean Energy,” and “Thirteen: 
Climate Action,” are especially applicable to our company. 

The graphic depicts the relationship among Duke Energy, 
its stakeholders and the most important issues. 
The stakeholders and issues are both presented 
alphabetically to make it clear that they are all important 
while safety, as always, is our No. 1 priority. 

15 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our Stakeholders and What Matters Most 
CONTINUED

Customers

Communities

Employees & 
Retirees

Academia

Trade  
Associations

Environmental & 
  Social Advocates

Investors

Suppliers

Labor Unions

Media

Local, State & Federal 
Governments

KEY

  Our Stakeholders
  What Matters Most

What Matters Most

   Safety: Our No. 1 Priority 
  Affordable Energy 
  Air Emissions 
  Biodiversity & Habitat Protection
  Climate Change 
  Community Engagement 

  Corporate Governance
  Customer Engagement 
  Cybersecurity 
  Diversity & Inclusion 
   Economic Development 
   Employee Development & Engagement 

  Ethics & Compliance 
  Human Rights 
  Long-Term Investor Value
  Reliability & Resiliency
  Risk Management 

  Water Quality & Availability 

16 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our Sustainability Plan and Goals

Environmental
Seizing the opportunity to deliver cleaner energy.

GOAL  
STATUS

  Achieved or on track
   Currently not on track due to pandemic 
  Target not achieved

GOALS: 

 Carbon emissions: Reduce the carbon dioxide 
(CO2) emissions from our generation fleet by at 
least 50 percent from the 2005 level by 2030 
(equates to a reduction from 153 million tons to 
75 .5 million tons), and attain net-zero emissions 
by 2050 . 

  2020 status: Our generation fleet emitted 

about 82 million tons of CO2, a reduction of over 
40 percent from the 2005 level .

 Energy efficiency – consumption: Achieve 
a cumulative reduction in customer energy 
consumption of 20,000 GWh (equivalent to 
the annual usage of 1 .67 million homes) by 
year-end 2020 .

  2020 status: As of year-end 2020, energy 

consumption was reduced by over 20,600 GWh . 

  Updated goal: Achieve a cumulative reduction 
in customer energy consumption of 24,000 GWh 
(equivalent to the annual usage of 2 million 
homes) by year-end 2025 .

  Energy efficiency – peak demand: Achieve 
a cumulative reduction in peak demand of 6,900 
MW (equivalent to 11 .5 600-MW power plants) by 
year-end 2020 .

  2020 status: As of year-end 2020, peak demand 

was reduced by nearly 7,000 MW .

  Updated goal: Maintain a cumulative reduction 

in summer peak demand of 7,000 MW (equivalent 
to 11 .5 600-MW power plants) and create 
significant incremental winter peak-demand 
reductions by year-end 2025 .

  Potential changes in state energy efficiency rules 
and requirements, and changes to utility avoided 
costs may have an impact on our future energy 
efficiency goals . 

  Renewables: Own, operate or contract 
16,000 MW of wind, solar and biomass 
by 2025 . (This goal includes 100 percent 
of the capacity of majority-owned 
assets that Duke Energy operates .)

  2020 status: As of year-end 2020, Duke Energy 
owned, operated or had under contract almost 
8,800 MW of wind, solar and biomass . 

 Water withdrawals: Reduce water withdrawals 
by our generation fleet by 1 trillion gallons by 
2030 from the 2016 level (5 .34 trillion gallons) .

  2020 status: Water withdrawals were 

approximately 4 .90 trillion gallons, a reduction of 
0 .44 trillion gallons .

 Releases to water: Reduce releases of 
TRI (Toxic Release Inventory) chemicals to 
water by half by 2030 from the 2016 level 
(212,000 pounds) . 

  2019 status: Releases of TRI chemicals to 

water were approximately 162,000 pounds in 
2019 . These releases are expected to decrease 
significantly as coal ash basins are closed . (Data 
for 2020 will be available in August 2021 .)

 Solid waste: Maintain the percentage of solid 
waste that is recycled at 80 percent . (This goal 
excludes Duke Energy Renewables, which has a 
relatively small waste stream .)

  2020 status: Approximately 80 percent of solid 

waste generated in 2020 was recycled .

  Coal ash management: Meet all federal 
and state regulatory requirements, while safely 
closing ash basins .

  2020 status: At year-end 2020, over 30 million 
tons of coal ash in the Carolinas and Midwest 
had been safely removed and stored in approved 
facilities . Additional ash units in Indiana have 
been closed in place following state-approved 
closure plans . Ash excavation activities are 
complete at three N .C . locations and one 
Kentucky location . The remaining high-priority 
N .C . excavation site plan is on track to be 
completed in 2022 . The N .C . Department of 
Environmental Quality has approved closure 
plans for all ash basins at the remaining N .C . 
sites . The Indiana closure plans are either 
approved (with some subject to legal challenges) 
or under review by the Indiana Department of 
Environmental Management . As of January 
2021, all three of the N .C . House Bill 630 ash 
beneficiation units have commenced operation .

New Goals

Methane emissions: The company 
announced a new goal in October 2020 to 
achieve net-zero methane emissions from our 
natural gas distribution business by 2030 . 

Electric vehicles (EVs): The company 
announced a new goal in September 2020 to 
convert 100 percent of our light-duty vehicles 
to electric and 50 percent of our combined 
fleet of medium-duty, heavy-duty and off-
road vehicles to EVs, plug-in hybrids or other 
zero-carbon alternatives by 2030 .

17 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Our Sustainability Plan and Goals
CONTINUED

Social
Improving the lives of our customers and communities. 
Building a safe, diverse and engaged workforce.

GOAL  
STATUS

  Achieved or on track
   Currently not on track due to pandemic 
  Target not achieved

CUSTOMER GOALS: 

  Affordable energy: Maintain electric rates 
lower than the national average .

  2020 status: Duke Energy’s electric rates in 
all six states we serve were lower than the 
national average in all three customer categories 
(residential, commercial and industrial) . 
(See related graphic on page 43: “Duke Energy’s 
Electric Rates: Below U .S . Average .”) 

  Reliable energy: Maintain the high reliability of 
our electric and natural gas system during 2020 .

  2020 status: 

   Nuclear optimized reliability was 183 .97 
versus a target of less than 197 .38 . 

   Fossil/hydro optimized reliability was 
55 .93 versus a target of less than 57 .47 . 

   Commercial renewables availability was 
94 .3 percent versus a target of at least 
95 .0 percent .

EMPLOYEE GOALS:

 Safety – incident rate: During 2020, achieve 
an employee total incident case rate (TICR) 
of 0 .37 .

  2020 status: Total company employee 

TICR was 0 .33 . Duke Energy was one of the 
industry leaders for the sixth year in a row .

 Safety – fatalities: During 2020, 
achieve zero work-related fatalities .

  2020 status: Tragically, there was one 

work-related employee fatality .

 Diversity and inclusion: Increase our 
workforce representation of females and 
race/ethnicity to 25 percent and 20 percent, 
respectively, by year-end 2020 . 

  2020 status: Female representation was 

23 .3 percent, and racial/ethnic representation 
was 18 .8 percent . As a result of the pandemic, 
we significantly reduced external hiring, making 

   Customer delivery reliability was 87 .7 
versus a target of at least 100 . 

   Natural gas business outage factor was 
missed due to an event that caused a loss of 
service to over 500 customers . 

 Economic development: Stimulate growth in 
our communities and help attract at least 45,000 
jobs and $23 billion in capital investments from 
2017 through 2021 .

  2020 status: Since 2017, Duke Energy helped 

our communities attract more than 60,000 jobs 
and over $27 billion in capital investment to 
our service territories . (See related graphic on 
page 44: “Economic Development .”)

  Updated goal: Stimulate growth in our 

communities and help attract at least 65,000 
jobs and $30 billion in capital investments from 
2017 through 2021 .

  Charitable giving: The Duke Energy 
Foundation will invest more than $30 million 
annually in charitable giving . 

  2020 status: The Duke Energy Foundation 

contributed $31 .9 million . Total 2020 charitable 
giving was $49 .5 million . (See related graphic on 
page 46: “2020 Charitable Giving .”)

   Community volunteerism: Support our 
communities with more than 100,000 employee 
and retiree volunteer hours annually .

  2020 status: Over 70,000 hours were donated, 
mainly through virtual events . As a result of the 
pandemic, we suspended in-person volunteer 
events, making it extremely challenging for the 
company to meet this goal during 2020 . This goal 
will be revisited as we return to more normal 
conditions post-pandemic . 

it extremely challenging for the company to 
meet this goal by year-end 2020 . We remain 
committed to improving the diversity of our 
workforce and strengthening the culture that 
supports it . We have initiated strategies to build 
a more diverse workforce through changes 
across the hiring life cycle . The timeline for 
this goal will be updated post-pandemic when 
external hiring stabilizes .

 Leadership: Advance leadership capabilities 
and bench strength .

  2020 status: 82 percent of our senior 

management positions have at least one 
“ready now” candidate and we have contingency 
plans in place for the other positions . Our talent 
plans focus on developing a strong and diverse 
pipeline and reinforcing leadership commitment 
and accountability .

New Goal

Employee engagement: Increase the 
likelihood of employees to recommend 
Duke Energy as a place to work to a friend 
or colleague .

2020 status: We care about what’s important 
to our employees and seek feedback on how 
we can improve . We enhanced our approach to 
the employee engagement survey by adding an 
employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) . We now 
have a solid baseline to build upon, allowing 
us to set a percentage improvement objective 
in the future . We will continue to develop and 
implement actions that help employees feel 
heard, included and enabled to be successful 
in their roles . 

18 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

 
 
 
 
 
Our Sustainability Plan and Goals
CONTINUED

Governance
Delivering results with transparency and accountability.

GOAL  
STATUS

  Achieved or on track
   Currently not on track due to pandemic 
  Target not achieved

GOALS:

 Governance: Keep abreast of developments 
regarding corporate governance principles 
and recommend internal improvements 
as appropriate .

  Total shareholder return (TSR): Outperform 
other investor-owned utilities in TSR, annually 
and over a three-year period, as measured by the 
Philadelphia Utility Index (UTY) .

 Transparency: Achieve top-quartile 
performance in disclosure, as measured by 
Bloomberg Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Disclosure Scores for our industry .

  2020 status: Duke Energy’s TSR results were:

  2020 status: As of February 23, 2021, 

   4 .8 percent in 2020, compared to the UTY 
return of 2 .7 percent .

   7 .4 percent over three years on an annualized 
basis, compared to the annualized UTY return 
of 10 .5 percent .

Duke Energy had a Bloomberg ESG Disclosure 
Score of 61 .89, the highest score listed by 
Bloomberg on that date for our peer U .S . utilities .

   2020 status: In 2020, the Board of Directors 
focused on oversight of the company’s key 
operational and strategic risks, many of 
which were heightened as a result of the 
year’s events . As part of this focus, the Board 
specifically assigned the oversight for ESG 
goals and strategy to the Corporate Governance 
Committee and the oversight of human capital 
management, diversity and inclusion to the 
Compensation Committee, which was renamed 
the Compensation and People Development 
Committee in recognition of the importance 
of such issues . The Compensation and People 
Development Committee also incorporated a 
climate goal into the short-term incentive plan for 
leaders to align compensation to our 2030 and 
2050 carbon emissions reduction goals .

19 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

 
 
Management Approach to Sustainability

Sustainability Governance

Duke Energy has adopted a management approach to 
sustainability that engages all levels of the company from 
the Board of Directors to our employees. We also strive to 
embed sustainable business practices throughout 
the company.

The Corporate Governance Committee of the 
Board of Directors

Provides board level oversight over sustainability and 
ESG issues. In addition, other board committees 
are responsible for certain aspects of sustainability. 
For example, the Operations and Nuclear Oversight 
Committee has oversight of environmental, health 
and safety goals and policies while the Compensation 
and People Development Committee has oversight of 
matters related to human capital management, including 
diversity and inclusion, employee engagement and 
talent development.

Chief Executive Officer

Ultimate responsibility for the company’s sustainability 
performance and long-term success. 

Chief Sustainability Officer

Responsible for partnering with business units to develop 
sustainability goals, integrating sustainable business 
practices across the company and sustainability reporting. 

Senior Business Leaders

Accountable for applicable sustainability goals and 
integrating sustainability into respective areas.

Sustainability Corps Members

Specially trained employees who provide local support 
and advocacy for sustainable business practices.

Employees

Implement departmental initiatives and identify local 
sustainability opportunities.

About Our Data 

This report contains the best data available at time 
of publication. Social and environmental data can 
be challenging to accurately measure. We correct 
and report errors in prior-year data when found, 
and we work to continually improve our data 
measurement, gathering and reporting processes to 
increase the integrity of information presented. 

Additional ESG Disclosures 

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a 
recognized international framework for economic, 
environmental and social performance disclosure. 
We provide a detailed response to GRI indicators 
on our website, including indicators in GRI’s 
Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures. 

The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) provides a reporting framework with 
industry-specific disclosures for sustainability 
topics. Duke Energy publishes a SASB disclosure 
on our website. 

The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and American 
Gas Association (AGA) have developed an 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
reporting template, with the goal of helping electric 
and gas utilities provide the financial sector 
with more uniform and consistent sustainability 
data and information. This first-of-its kind 
industry collaboration includes a broad working 
group of finance sector specialists and industry 
representatives. Duke Energy publishes its EEI/AGA 
ESG disclosure on our website.

Please also see our latest Climate Report, CDP 
disclosures (formerly known as the Carbon 
Disclosure Project), Trade Associations Climate 
Review and new ESG website. 

20 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / INTRODUCTION

Environmental

Seizing the opportunity to 
deliver cleaner energy .

21 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Environmental

2020 Highlights

 ■ Since 2005, decreased carbon dioxide emissions from electricity generation by over 

40 percent, sulfur dioxide emissions by over 95 percent and nitrogen oxides emissions 
by over 80 percent.

 ■ Announced a new goal to achieve net-zero methane emissions from our natural gas 

distribution business by 2030.

 ■

In 2020, reached a cumulative, multiyear reduction in customer energy consumption 
of over 20,600 gigawatt-hours, and a reduction in peak demand of nearly 7,000 
megawatts (MW).

 ■ As of year-end 2020, owned, operated or had under contract almost 8,800 MW of 

wind, solar and biomass.

 ■ Built momentum around electric vehicle charging pilot programs and announced a plan 

to electrify Duke Energy’s vehicle fleet.

 ■ Since 2010, retired 51 units at coal-fired power plants, totaling approximately 

6,500 MW of capacity. 

 ■ Reduced water withdrawn for electric generation by 442 billion gallons since 2016.

 ■ Recycled 80 percent of our solid waste, diverting over 86,000 tons of solid waste 

from landfills.

 ■ Brought online North Carolina’s largest battery – a nearly 9-megawatt facility 

in Asheville.

 ■ Filed integrated resource plans (IRPs) in North Carolina and South Carolina, outlining 
six potential pathways to a cleaner energy future over the next 15 years shaped by 
stakeholder feedback and priorities.

Challenges and Opportunities

 ■ Continue to move to a low-carbon future by retiring coal plants and replacing them 

with renewable energy and natural gas plants.

 ■ Continue to reduce methane leaks in our natural gas distribution business by deploying 
new technologies, operational efficiencies and damage prevention initiatives. Focus on 
upstream emissions via supplier and industry efforts.

 ■ Further strengthen our grid to enable more renewable energy and to protect against 

cyber and physical threats.

 ■ Advocate for public policies that advance the innovations necessary to achieve a 

net-zero carbon future – including longer-duration energy storage, carbon capture, 
advanced nuclear, hydrogen and other technologies.

22 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Duke Energy crossed 
a major milestone 
in 2020, surpassing 
40 percent carbon 
reduction from electricity 
generation from 
2005 levels.

A Bold Vision 
for Decarbonization 

The country is at a critical point in 
addressing the important issue of 
climate change. At Duke Energy, we are 
taking aggressive action to address this 
challenge while delivering affordable, 
reliable, and increasingly clean energy.

The company’s focus on decarbonizing 
the generation fleet – with a net-zero 
2050 goal for carbon emissions – 
continues as Duke Energy moves away 
from coal and shifts to more renewables, 
energy storage and other emerging 
technologies. In fact, our transition away 
from coal is the largest in the industry.

The company is deploying significant 
amounts of renewables – investments 
which have already proven beneficial 
and have helped propel North Carolina, 
Florida and Texas to be top states for 
renewable energy in the country.

At the same time, natural gas enables the 
company to accelerate coal retirements 
while providing the dispatchable 
resources needed for the integration of 
renewables as battery storage and other 
technologies continue to advance.

These efforts have only further boosted 
the company’s sizable carbon-free energy 
portfolio, anchored by a nuclear fleet that 
plays a significant role in maintaining 
affordability and reliability for millions 
of customers.

Duke Energy crossed a major milestone 
in 2020, surpassing 40 percent carbon 
reduction from electricity generation from 

2005 levels. For 2020 and 2021, the 
pandemic may skew reported results due 
to reduced energy demand – so there 
may not be a straight line downward to 
our interim goal of at least a 50 percent 
carbon reduction by 2030. But we’re 
poised to hit more significant milestones 
in the years to come.

It’s progress like this that gives us 
confidence as we move forward with our 
goals of achieving at least a 50 percent 
reduction in carbon emissions from 
electricity generation from 2005 levels by 
2030, and net-zero by 2050. 

Our efforts reflect the support we have for 
President Biden’s decision to reenter the 
Paris Agreement.

The following are critical elements for 
Duke Energy’s path to net-zero carbon: 

 ■ Deployment of renewables and energy 

storage at unprecedented rates

 ■ Maintaining our nuclear fleet 

 ■ Transitioning away from coal, with 

support from natural gas

 ■ Development and deployment of 
emerging technologies such as 
longer-duration storage, advanced 
nuclear, carbon capture, and the use 
of hydrogen

 ■ Supportive public policy 

You can read more about Duke Energy’s 
strategy to address climate risks and 
deliver a clean energy future on the 
company’s Global Climate Change page.

23 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Moving Toward a Cleaner Generation 
Fleet and Increased Fuel Diversity 

Energy Efficiency Adapts to 
Evolving Needs

(megawatt-hour output)

2005 1

2020 1, 2

2030E 3

  1%   Hydro, wind and solar
 33%  Nuclear
  6%  Natural gas

60%  Coal/oil

  7%   Hydro, wind and solar
 35%  Nuclear
  37%  Natural gas
21%  Coal/oil

  23%   Hydro, wind and solar
 30%  Nuclear
  38%  Natural gas
9%  Coal/oil

 1  2005 and 2020 data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of U .S . generation 

assets as of December 31, 2020 . 

 2  2020 data excludes 9,221 GWh of purchased power from solar, wind, hydro and 

biomass resources, equivalent to approximately 4 percent of Duke Energy’s output .
 3  2030 estimate will be influenced by customer demand for electricity, weather, fuel and 

purchased power prices, and other factors . 

Duke Energy has a long history of promoting energy 
efficiency – helping customers use energy more efficiently 
and wisely. This also helps the company avoid the need 
for new power plants.

The company exceeded energy efficiency goals by 
achieving a cumulative reduction in customer energy 
consumption of 20,656 gigawatt-hours (GWh) at 
year-end 2020 – equivalent to the annual usage 
of 1.72 million homes. Duke Energy also reduced 
cumulative peak demand by 6,957 megawatts (MW) 
at year-end 2020.

Customer satisfaction with Home and Energy products 
and services continues to be strong, and Duke Energy 
Carolinas leads the Southeast in energy efficiency for a 
fifth straight year, according to a new report from the 
Southern Alliance for Clean Energy.

The company is making it easier for customers to engage 
with it via a customer mobile app and a marketplace 
where customers can buy products and find programs 
that can help them save energy and money. 

While 2020 was a very challenging year for many 
customers, schools in our service area used the 
opportunity to expand and update their facilities to be 
more energy efficient.

Indiana’s Noblesville Schools took advantage of available 
rebates and upgraded lighting to LED flat panels in 
10 schools and their administration building, which will 
result in an estimated 4 GWh saved.

And over the past four years, Wake County Schools in 
North Carolina submitted over 30 projects to improve 
how energy is used in the school system. Sixteen projects 
were finalized in 2020, resulting in 3.3 GWh saved. 

As customers’ energy efficiency needs and expectations 
are changing, Duke Energy is evolving too to help 
customers save energy and money, plus benefit 
the environment.

24 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Renewables Rolling Ahead in 2020

With a goal of doubling Duke Energy’s wind, solar 
and biomass portfolio by 2025, increased activity in 
renewable energy the past 12 months should come as 
no surprise.

The company added more than 700 megawatts (MW) of 
Duke Energy-owned renewable energy capacity in 2020 
– making progress on our 2025 goal of 16,000 MW of 
owned, operated and contracted renewables.

For Commercial Renewables, the company added three 
solar projects, totaling 460 MW, in Texas and Colorado.

For regulated utilities, Florida continues to be a growth 
area for the company. Last year, Duke Energy brought 
a pair of large solar projects totaling almost 150 MW 
online. It also has two others under construction.

In early 2021, Florida regulators approved the company’s 
Clean Energy Connection program, providing a pathway 
for a variety of customers to participate in large-scale 
solar and obtain bill credits in exchange for a monthly 
subscription fee – offering more options for customers to 
support the clean energy transition within our company 
on a voluntary basis. 

Under the program, Duke Energy plans to invest an 
estimated $1 billion in new solar power plants across 
Florida, totaling an additional 750 MW of new solar. The 
first plants will go online in 2022 and more will follow 
through 2024. Overall, 10 more plants are planned.

In North Carolina, the company’s $62 million solar rebate 
program helped more customers than ever go solar. The 
successful five-year program led about 5,500 customers 
to install private solar systems in the state during 2020.

Duke Energy also helped large customers go solar 
in 2020 with its Green Source Advantage program. 
The city of Charlotte, Bank of America and Duke 
University are all pursuing new solar projects under the 
company’s program, which allows large energy users to 
negotiate directly with solar developers on independent 
solar projects.

In South Carolina, the company crafted an agreement 
with the solar business community on how the company 
will compensate customers through net metering. 
Regulators still must approve the measure, but the details 
could be a road map as other states look for a solution 
that works for all stakeholders.

25 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

In Florida, the company is well on its way to install 
50 MW of battery storage with six projects under 
construction in the state in 2021 – improving grid 
reliability and power quality.

A unique project is currently under construction – 
combining solar power and battery storage at John 
Hopkins Middle School in St. Petersburg. It will also serve 
as a microgrid and deliver backup power when the school 
serves as a special needs hurricane evacuation shelter.

Of course, batteries are not the only energy storage 
technology. The company has 2,200 MW of pumped 
storage hydro power. Over the next three years, 
Duke Energy will increase the capacity at its Bad Creek 
facility in South Carolina by 280 MW as it upgrades 
the facility.

Energy Storage Picks Up Momentum

Battery energy storage will play a significant role as 
Duke Energy aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions 
(CO2) from electricity generation at least 50 percent 
below 2005 levels by 2030 and achieve net-zero CO2 
emissions by 2050.

Among several benefits, energy storage increases grid 
flexibility, which helps manage the continued growth of 
intermittent renewable resources on the energy grid.

The company currently has plans for approximately 
375 megawatts (MW) of energy storage across 
our regulated businesses over the next five years, 
representing about $600 million of new investment.

Already, the company has commercial and regulated 
battery projects operating in Indiana, Ohio, North Carolina 
and Texas – and more are planned, with some coming 
online in 2021. 

In North Carolina, the company brought online the 
state’s largest battery last year – a nearly 9-MW facility 
in Asheville.

In South Carolina, an innovative microgrid setup is being 
planned at the Anderson County Civic Center. A 5-MW 
battery will be grid-connected and will provide backup 
power at the facility, which supports several emergency 
service agencies and serves as the state’s largest 
hurricane evacuation shelter. 

26 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Nuclear Essential to Meeting 
Carbon Goals 

Nuclear energy continues as Duke Energy’s largest 
carbon-free power source.

Generating approximately 50 percent of the Carolinas 
electricity, nuclear will continue to be an important energy 
source as the company works toward its goal of achieving 
net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.

An important step in reaching that goal is obtaining 
subsequent license renewal for the nuclear fleet. These 
licenses, renewed by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, will allow the reactors operated by 
Duke Energy in the Carolinas to continue operating for 
an additional 20 years. The application process for 
Oconee Nuclear Station in South Carolina, the largest 
nuclear station, began in 2018 and the application will 
be submitted in 2021.

But the company isn’t stopping there – emerging 
technology initiatives like advanced nuclear, which 
includes a wide range of small modular light-water 
reactors and advanced non-light-water reactor designs, 
are also being explored.

While the company’s existing nuclear fleet provides the 
baseload, carbon-free capacity needed by our customers, 
advanced nuclear will provide an even stronger 
partnership with renewable energy sources like solar 
and wind.

In 2020, the Duke Energy nuclear fleet generated more 
than 73 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity and avoided 
the release of almost 50 million tons of carbon dioxide. 
Duke Energy’s nuclear fleet marked its 22nd consecutive 
year with a fleet capacity factor – a measure of reliability 
– greater than 90 percent. The 2020 fleet capacity factor 
was 94.42 percent.

Advancing New Technologies Needed 
for Net-Zero Carbon 

Duke Energy is investing in innovation and technology 
to better serve customers and produce energy in an 
affordable, reliable and environmentally beneficial way. 

To transition to a net-zero carbon future, the company 
will need to add new and evolving low- and no-carbon 
generation technologies that complement our growing 
portfolio of renewable resources and can be dispatched 
to help meet peak energy demand – for example, during 
cold winter mornings when solar power isn’t available. 

The use of hydrogen might be part of the equation. 

That’s why Duke Energy is teaming up with Siemens 
Energy and Clemson University to study the use of 
hydrogen for energy storage and as a low- or no-carbon 
fuel source to produce energy at the company’s combined 
heat and power plant in South Carolina.

The study includes research on hydrogen production, 
storage, co-firing with natural gas and multiple forms of 
hydrogen production, such as using electrolysis, which 
produces hydrogen from water and has no byproducts. 

27 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Hydrogen also has the potential to store larger quantities 
of energy more efficiently and for longer durations than 
current lithium-ion battery technology.

Hydrogen integration is a possibility at many of 
Duke Energy’s natural gas stations, and the company 
has a proven record of integrating dual-fuel types into 
existing operations.

Starting in 2016, Duke Energy launched co-firing projects 
at the Belews Creek Steam Station, Marshall Steam Station 
and Rogers Energy Complex in North Carolina. In 2021, 
eight units will have the ability to burn natural gas in 
addition to coal – rather than coal only – to reduce carbon 
dioxide and other emissions.  

Other new technologies besides hydrogen will also be 
important. We are leaning in to support and evaluate 
the potential for advanced nuclear; carbon capture, 
utilization and storage; and long-duration energy storage 
technologies through efforts like our partnership with 
TerraPower and GE to demonstrate an advanced nuclear 
reactor, along with pilots of advanced battery chemistries.

Duke Energy is also a founding member and anchor 
sponsor of the Electric Power Research Institute/Gas 
Technology Institute’s Low Carbon Resource Initiative 
– a five-year industrywide effort to accelerate the 
development and demonstration of technologies to 
achieve deep decarbonization.

The Rise of the Green-Enabled Grid

Duke Energy is improving the electric grid, making it 
more resilient and more resistant to outages from severe 
weather, and preparing it to enable cleaner energy options 
and a lower-carbon future.

Today’s electric grid is built upon a foundation of power 
plants that push energy in one direction to homes 
and businesses. But as renewable energy and other 
distributed generation sources expand, managing that 
energy flow becomes more complex. Instead of one-way 
power flow generated at the time customers need it, 
power needs to flow in multiple directions from locations 
across the grid, and often when there isn’t customer 
demand for energy to match.

Duke Energy is seeing substantial growth in renewables 
across the system. For example, in North Carolina in 
2020, grid-connected rooftop solar installations jumped 
by 50 percent, with around 18,000 solar sites now 
connected across the state.

That’s why the company is making improvements now 
to ready the grid for more renewables and distributed 
technologies, and to support the company’s commitment 
to significantly expand cleaner energy and achieve net-zero 
carbon emissions from electricity generation by 2050.

The company is also building a smart-thinking grid that 
intelligently manages the two-way power flow needed 
to sustainably grow solar, wind, battery storage, and 
electric vehicles.

28 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

This technology also provides resiliency 
benefits by automatically detecting 
outages and quickly rerouting power to 
other lines to restore power faster or 
avoid the outage altogether. In 2020, 
smart, self-healing technology helped 
avoid more than 800,000 extended 
customer outages, saving more than 
1.8 million hours of lost outage time. 
The company plans to significantly 
expand the capabilities and benefits of 
this technology over the next few years. 

With grid improvement initiatives 
taking place in every state we serve, 
our goal is to better serve customers 
across a smarter, more resilient, green-
enabled grid that is ready for the energy 
opportunities that lie ahead.

The Path to Eliminating 
Methane Emissions

Duke Energy announced in October 2020 
its goal of reducing methane emissions in 
its natural gas distribution companies to 
net-zero by 2030.

The company has already completed 
an industry-leading step by eliminating 
all cast iron and bare steel main piping 
in its systems, a major contributor to 
methane leakage.

It has deployed new technologies, 
operational efficiencies and damage 
prevention initiatives in its natural gas 
distribution businesses in five states, 
including Piedmont Natural Gas in North 
Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee, 
and the Midwest natural gas business in 
Ohio and Kentucky.

Pilot projects are well underway using 
satellites, fixed-wing aircraft, drones 
and real-time measurement devices to 

pinpoint leaks even faster, increasing 
the measurement and monitoring of 
methane emissions.

Targeting the unintended escape of 
methane when third parties damage 
pipelines, Duke Energy and Piedmont are 
deploying expert technicians to oversee 
high-risk excavations.

To focus on upstream emissions, the 
company is driving its natural gas 
procurement process for gas distribution 
and power generation toward suppliers 
with low methane emissions – striking 
a balance between responsible 
procurement and maintaining affordability 
for customers.

Also, the company joined ONE Future, a 
coalition of natural gas companies finding 
solutions to voluntarily reduce methane 
emissions across the natural gas supply 
chain – with a goal to lower emissions to 
less than 1 percent by 2025.

Getting to the finish line of net-zero 
methane emissions may include the use 
of renewable natural gas. Renewable 
natural gas provides a very beneficial 
offsetting advantage by removing 
methane from the agriculture and waste 
sectors and using it as a fuel source.

Investing in Renewable 
Natural Gas

To help reach our net-zero methane from 
natural gas distribution by 2030 goal, the 
company invested in a minority share of 
SustainRNG, which will design, finance, 
build and operate renewable natural gas 
(RNG) sites in collaboration with dairy 
farmers. Duke Energy can continue 
to invest in individual projects as they 
are developed.

29 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Duke Energy announced 
in October 2020 
its goal of reducing 
methane emissions in its 
natural gas distribution 
companies to net-zero 
by 2030.

RNG is biomethane captured from the breakdown of 
organic waste, including landfills and manure. Once 
processed to remove contaminants and meet pipeline 
quality standards, it has the same properties as 
natural gas.

SustainRNG’s projects will capture methane from manure, 
which would otherwise be released to the atmosphere, 
using advanced generation technology developed by Trane 
Technologies and licensed exclusively to SustainRNG for 
use in the agricultural sector.

SustainRNG is on track to complete its first project in 
2021, with future projects in development. Growing this 
partnership will continue to benefit customers and reduce 
the company’s carbon footprint by bringing more natural 
gas to market in an environmentally responsible way.

RNG also has been added to the company’s compressed 
natural gas (CNG) offerings. 

Through a partnership with Utah-based Bluesource, 
RNG is being used at a Piedmont Natural Gas CNG 
fueling station in Nashville, Tennessee. The Natural Gas 
Business Unit plans to extend RNG to the remainder of 
Piedmont’s 11 publicly accessible CNG fueling stations 
in the Carolinas.

CNG vehicles already are noteworthy for lowering 
greenhouse gas emissions, and by fueling with RNG, 
customers enjoy an additional environmental benefit.

Electrifying the Drive

Because of progress in the electric sector, the 
transportation sector is now the largest source of carbon 
emissions. Growing adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) 
charged by an increasingly green grid will inevitably lower 
carbon emissions. 

It’s a major reason Duke Energy has introduced 
comprehensive initiatives to embrace and encourage the 
transition to greater electrification – paving the way for 
more EVs on the highways.

Starting inside the company, Duke Energy has committed 
to electrifying its own fleet. The company has pledged 
to convert 100 percent of its nearly 4,000 light-duty 
vehicles and 50 percent of about 6,000 combined fleet 
of medium-duty, heavy-duty and off-road vehicles to EVs, 
plug-in hybrids or other zero-carbon alternatives by 2030.

In addition to expanding charging at company facilities 
to support the fleet electrification goal, Duke Energy is 
also installing workplace chargers at all work locations to 
enable employees to drive electric.

In Florida, the company’s Park and Plug pilot has 
installed more than 570 EV public charging stations 
throughout the state. To date, drivers have used the Park 
and Plug network for over 60,000 charging sessions, 
displacing more than 90,000 gallons of gasoline.

In early 2021, Duke Energy Florida filed a settlement, 
which includes permanent programs that will deploy 
charging stations across the state.

30 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Major regulatory hurdles were cleared last year as pilot 
programs were approved in both North Carolina and 
South Carolina.

In North Carolina, a $25 million pilot program will lead 
to the installation of 200 public Level 2 and fast charging 
stations, additional stations at multifamily buildings and 
a school bus electrification pilot that will allow school 
districts to change out diesel buses with electric ones.

In South Carolina, the company will provide up to a total 
of $1,000 for 400 residential Duke Energy Carolinas 
customers who install a Level 2 charging station, provide 
access to their charging data, and manage EV charging 
load to occur during off-peak periods. The company will 
also deploy 60 fast chargers there to expand access to 
fast charging infrastructure in the state.

Another pilot program is awaiting regulatory action 
in Ohio.

In early 2021, Duke Energy announced a major step 
to help large businesses and municipalities with all the 
planning, financing, acquisition and deployment services 
to electrify their fleets. The company, eTransEnergy LLC, 
a new, wholly owned subsidiary, will provide unregulated 
services to assist school districts, transit services and 
companies across the country achieve their economic 
and sustainability goals as they transition to clean energy 
transportation options.

Duke Energy is also excited to have joined the Zero 
Emission Transportation Association (ZETA) as a founding 
member. ZETA is the first industry-backed coalition of its 
kind advocating for 100 percent of vehicles sold by 2030 
to be EVs.

Mindful of Our Water Supply

A prolonged drought could impact electricity generation 
because many traditional power plants require large 
amounts of water for cooling purposes. At the other 
weather extreme, heavy flooding could disable electrical 
substations during major storms.

Deploying water management strategies in an evolving 
future that accounts for multiple scenarios is therefore key 
to the company’s long-term success.

Drought Protection – The company is investing in 
new power generation technologies that greatly reduce 
freshwater use, such as wind, photovoltaic solar and 
natural gas combined-cycle technologies – and using 
nontraditional water sources, like brackish water and 
municipal and industrial wastewater.

In Florida, the Hines Energy Complex, Intercession 
City plant and Osprey Energy Center use reclaimed 
water in energy generation, further reducing our 
freshwater footprint.

Flood Protection – Duke Energy has implemented flood-
mitigation measures to protect substations, including 
installing barriers and relocating certain equipment. This 
helps protect – and keep – essential systems operating 
during severe storms.

Integrated Water Management – Duke Energy is only 
one user of valuable water resources. By collaborating 
with local water utilities, environmental groups and 
recreation enthusiasts on watershed and drought 
planning, the company can address the long-term needs 
of local communities. 

31 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

This collaborative and forward-thinking 
approach to managing regional water 
supplies ensures the sustainability of 
water resources for a growing population 
while meeting energy production needs.

New Milestones in Coal Ash

With all of its coal ash basins removed 
from service systemwide, Duke Energy is 
making strong progress in finalizing the 
disposition of ash. This includes recycling 
it into concrete when doing so makes 
sense for customers and communities 
– an option that safely removes the ash 
from the environment.

Importantly, with the addition of three 
new ash reprocessing facilities that came 
online in late 2020 and early 2021, the 
company now has the capacity to recycle 
more coal ash than its power plants 
produce annually in the Carolinas.

Concrete is stronger when using ash 
as an ingredient, making some of the 
most beautiful buildings in the world 
possible, like the One World Trade Center 
in New York. But excess carbon in the 
ash has to be removed first – too much 
carbon and the concrete would be brittle.

Advanced technology within the three 
reprocessing facilities extracts this excess 
carbon. Notably, carbon from the ash 
itself powers the extraction process, 
resulting in a highly sustainable system. 

And for every ton of ash encapsulated into 
concrete, about 1 ton of greenhouse gas 
emissions is avoided by reducing the need 
to mine natural materials as concrete 
ingredients. Overall, Duke Energy recycled 
nearly 1 million tons of ash in 2020, 
along with 1.4 million tons of gypsum, 
another coal combustion byproduct.

Systemwide, closure work is now 
complete on nearly one-third of 
Duke Energy’s ash basins. In North 
Carolina, state regulators approved 
closure plans for the company’s remaining 
sites in North Carolina, confirming the 
plans are “protective of public health and 
the environment.” 

The company also reached a settlement 
with the North Carolina Attorney 
General, North Carolina Public Staff 
and Sierra Club on safe basin closure 
costs, providing immediate benefits to 
customers and long-term certainty for the 
company and its investors. In Indiana, 
closure work is complete on six basins 
with 16 remaining, three of which are 
nearing completion. And half of the 
company’s South Carolina basins have 
already been excavated, as has the lone 
basin in Kentucky.

Learn more about how we are leading the 
industry in safely closing ash basins.

Overall, Duke Energy 
recycled nearly 
1 million tons of ash 
in 2020, along with 
1.4 million tons of 
gypsum, another coal 
combustion byproduct.

32 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Coal Plant Retirements

Duke Energy is increasingly providing cleaner energy to our customers, shifting to more flexible, lower- and no-carbon sources while maintaining 
reliability and rates below the national averages . Since 2010, we have retired 6,539 megawatts (MW) of older coal capacity, while investing in natural 
gas and renewables . By year-end 2025, we plan to retire an additional 1,922 MW of older coal capacity, which will bring coal plant retirements to roughly 
one-third of our former coal fleet . The remaining coal plant retirements are planned on a glidepath to enable the company to reach its carbon emissions 
reduction goals . 

Retired Coal Units 1 

Planned Coal Unit Retirements

Edwardsport Station

Cliffside Steam Station

Buck Steam Station

W.H. Weatherspoon Plant

Gallagher Station

Cape Fear Plant

Beckjord Station

Dan River Steam Station

H.F. Lee Plant

Robinson Plant

Buck Steam Station

Riverbend Steam Station

Sutton Plant

Beckjord Station

Beckjord Station

W.S. Lee Steam Station

W.S. Lee Steam Station

Miami Fort Station

Wabash River Station

Crystal River Energy 
Complex

Asheville Plant

Total

Location

Ind .

N .C .

N .C .

N .C .

Ind .

N .C .

Ohio

N .C .

N .C .

S .C .

N .C .

N .C .

N .C .

Ohio

Ohio

S .C .

S .C .

Ohio

Ind .

Fla .

N .C .

Units

6, 7, 8

1, 2, 3, 4

3, 4

1, 2, 3

1, 3

5, 6

1

1, 2, 3

1, 2, 3

1

5, 6

4, 5, 6, 7

1, 2, 3

2, 3

4, 5, 6

1, 2

3

6

2, 3, 4, 
5, 6

1, 2

1, 2

51

Total 
capacity 
(megawatts)

Actual  
retirement  
date

Location

Units

Total 
capacity 
(megawatts)

Planned 
retirement  
date

2010

2011

2011

2011

2012

2012

2012

2012

2012

2012

2013

2013

2013

2013

2014

2014

2015
Converted 
to natural 
gas

2015

2016

2018

2020

160

198

113

170

280

316

94

276

382

177

256

454

553

222

543

200

170

163

668

766

378

6,539

Gallagher

Allen Steam Station 2 

Allen Steam Station2

Rogers Energy Complex 
(Cliffside Steam Station) 3 

Gibson Station 4 

Roxboro Steam Plant

Cayuga Station

Roxboro Steam Plant

Mayo Steam Plant

Gibson Station

Crystal River Station

Marshall Steam Station3

Gibson Station

Belews Creek3

East Bend Steam Plant

Edwardsport IGCC

Rogers Energy Complex 
(Cliffside Steam Station)3

Total

Ind .

N .C .

N .C .

N .C .

Ind .

N .C .

Ind .

N .C .

N .C .

Ind .

Fla .

N .C .

Ind .

N .C .

Ky .

Ind .

N .C .

2, 4

2 - 4

1, 5

5

5

3, 4

1, 2

1, 2

1

3, 4

4, 5

1 - 4

1, 2

1 - 2

2

1

6

280

677

421

544

310

1,392

995

1,047

704

1,252

1,410

2,058

1,260

2,220

600

595

844

31

16,609

2021

2021

2023

2025

2026

2027

2028

2028

2028

2034

2034

2034

2038

2038

2041

2045

2048

1 

In addition to coal unit retirements, a number of older oil/natural gas generation units have been 
or will be retired .

 2  Allen units 1-3 must retire by December 31, 2024, per a 2009 settlement agreement with the 

U .S . Environmental Protection Agency .

 3  Coal units that have been or will be retrofitted to run fully or partially on natural gas .
 4  Represents Duke Energy ownership share .

33 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

 
Duke Energy serves as an 
environmental steward 
by monitoring the rivers 
and lakes adjacent to 
its generating facilities, 
including management 
of aquatic species 
across 39 reservoirs in 
the Carolinas.

and removing plants by hand. Since the 
easiest and least expensive way to stop 
hydrilla is to prevent it from taking hold, 
teams also spend time educating boaters 
and lake-front property owners about 
invasive species.

Company scientists do far more than 
control summer weeds. Others take water 
samples, survey the fish population, and 
collect habitat and lake health information 
year-round. The data is used to optimize 
plant operations and ensure compliance 
with state and federal regulatory 
requirements that protect the public and 
the environment.

In fact, Duke Energy’s scientific 
monitoring has been underway for 
60 years in some water bodies, allowing 
the company, governmental agencies 
and other stakeholders to confirm that 
environmental conditions remain healthy 
for aquatic life and human use.

Protecting Aquatic Habitats

Duke Energy serves as an environmental 
steward by monitoring the rivers and 
lakes adjacent to its generating facilities, 
including management of aquatic species 
across 39 reservoirs in the Carolinas. 

For example, from June to October 
each year, Duke Energy environmental 
scientists survey nearly 1,800 miles of 
shoreline from Lake James in western 
North Carolina to Lake Wateree in 
South Carolina for invasive plants like 
hydrilla. If it spreads enough, this weed 
can affect water flow to power plants, 
restrict access to boat ramps and 
swimming beaches, threaten drinking 
water and harm wildlife habitat.

Similar to how land-based kudzu destroys 
forests, hydrilla grows quickly and has no 
native predators – millions of dollars are 
spent annually across the United States to 
slow its spread. 

Since hydrilla appeared in its reservoirs 
in the 1990s, the company has worked 
with management agencies to eradicate 
the plant by introducing predators like 
sterile grass carp, applying herbicides 

34 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

In partnership with 
Texas State University, 
Texas Parks & Wildlife, 
Bat Conservation 
International, Vestas, 
and NRG Systems, the 
technology’s developer, 
researchers tested a 
device that emits high-
frequency sounds on 
16 of the site’s 255 
wind turbines.

It does not harm the bats but since they 
cannot echolocate, they leave the area 
around the turbine’s blades. The sound 
is above human hearing range, dissipates 
quickly and does not impact other wildlife 
or livestock.

Over the course of a two-year study, the 
system was found to reduce bat fatalities 
by 50 percent overall, and by nearly 
80 percent for the hoary bat, a species 
of conservation concern. The results 
were significant enough that Duke Energy 
committed to add the technology to 
all 255 Los Vientos turbines – the first 
commercial-scale installation in the 
continental United States.

Such measures aren’t limited to bats. 
At other wind farms, Duke Energy has 
implemented innovative eagle protection 
systems and facilitated research into 
their effectiveness; one recent study 
demonstrated an 82 percent reduction in 
eagle fatalities. By sharing this third-party 
analysis, the company hopes its leading-
edge approach will help accelerate 
renewable energy growth nationwide.

Accelerating Renewables 
While Reducing Impacts

Duke Energy plans to grow its renewables 
portfolio to 16,000 megawatts by the 
end of 2025. While these clean energy 
sources are emissions-free, they can still 
face environmental hurdles – and the 
company is taking a leading role in getting 
ahead of this challenge.

For example, hundreds of thousands of 
bats die every year at North American 
wind farms. Ultrasonic deterrents were 
seen as one potential solution, but very 
few field studies had been conducted at 
utility-scale facilities. When Duke Energy’s 
environmental scientists learned of a 
promising new technology in need of a 
host site, they offered to facilitate a study 
at the company’s Los Vientos wind farm 
in south Texas.

In partnership with Texas State 
University, Texas Parks & Wildlife, Bat 
Conservation International, Vestas, 
and NRG Systems, the technology’s 
developer, researchers tested a device 
that emits high-frequency sounds on 
16 of the site’s 255 wind turbines. This 
ultrasonic sound essentially disrupts the 
bats’ echolocation capabilities – their 
system for navigation and finding food. 

35 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

2020 electricity generated and 
generation capacity

Duke Energy has a diverse, increasingly 
clean generation portfolio . Over 40 percent 
of the electricity we generated in 2020 was 
from carbon-free sources, including nuclear, 
wind, hydro and solar . Over 37 percent was 
from lower-carbon natural gas, which emits 
about half as much carbon dioxide as coal 
when used for electric generation . And 21 
percent was from higher-carbon coal and 
oil . Taken together, owned and purchased 
renewables are equivalent to 11 percent of our 
MWh generation .

Environmental Performance Metrics

2020 Electricity Generated and Generation Capacity 1 

Electricity Generated 
(net megawatt-hours)

Generation Capacity 
(megawatts)

Total Carbon-Free

Nuclear

Wind 2 

Conventional Hydro2

Solar2

Total Lower-Carbon

Natural Gas

Total Higher-Carbon

Coal

Oil

Pumped-Storage Hydro 3 

Total

Purchased Renewables2 

MWh 
(thousands)

88,597

73,722

6,958

4,101

3,816

77,843

77,843

43,996

43,928

68

-505

209,931

Percent

42.2%

35 .1%

3 .3%

2 .0%

1 .8%

37.1%

37 .1%

21.0%

20 .9%

0 .03%

-0 .24%

100%

MW

13,227

8,907

1,424

1,336

 1,560 

20,348

20,348

17,641

16,622

1,019

2,220

53,436

Percent

24.8%

16 .7%

2 .7%

2 .5%

2 .9%

38.1%

38 .1%

33.0%

31 .1%

1 .9%

4 .2%

100%

9,221 

Equivalent 
to 4%

4,195 

Equivalent 
to 8%

 1  All data, except for purchased renewables, based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating plants as of December 31, 2020 . 

Totals do not add up exactly because of rounding . 

 2  See “Statement Regarding Renewable Energy Certificates” on page 65 .
 3  Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demand and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces .

2020 Electricity Generated 1 

2020 Generation Capacity1

37.1%   Natural gas
35.1%  Nuclear
 20.9%   Coal
   5.1%   Wind/solar
   2.0%    Conv. hydro
 0.04%  Oil

 38.1%   Natural gas
 31.1%  Coal
 16.7%   Nuclear
   5.6%   Wind/solar
   2.5%   Conv. hydro
   1.9%  Oil

 1  Excludes pumped-storage hydro .

Fuels Consumed For Electric Generation 1 

Coal (million tons)

Oil (million gallons)

Natural gas (billion cubic feet)

2008

63 .1

230 .6

163 .4

2018

29 .3

64 .9

610 .3

2019

24 .3

26 .0

567 .1

2020

19.7

19.4

584.9

 1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets as of the end of each calendar year . 

Fuels consumed for 
electric generation

Since 2008, the use of coal and oil as 
generation fuels has significantly decreased . 
These fuels are being replaced by natural gas 
and renewables . 

36 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Performance Metrics 
CONTINUED

Water Withdrawn and Consumed for Electric Generation
(billion gallons)

Withdrawn

Consumed

Consumption intensity (gallons per MWh generated)

2011

5,900

105

456

2018

4,991

84

374

2019

4,657

73

337

2020

4,899

68

325

Scope 1 Emissions

Emissions From Electric Generation 1

CO2 emissions (thousand short tons) 

CO2 emissions intensity (pounds per net kWh)

SO2 emissions (short tons) 

SO2 emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)

NOX emissions (short tons) 
NOX emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)
CH4 emissions (CO2 equivalent) (thousand short tons)

N2O emissions (CO2 equivalent) (thousand short tons)

2005

2018

153,000

105,000

1 .29

1,107,000

9 .3

0 .94

45,000

0 .4

2019

93,000

0 .86

31,000

0 .3

2020

82,000

0.78

27,000

0.3

244,000

63,000

50,000

43,000

2 .1

420 

 731 

0 .6

218

369

0 .5

186

361

0.4

157

300

 1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets as of December 31, 2020 . Totals may not add up exactly due 

to rounding .

Sulfur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (tons) 1  
and Electricity Generation (thousand net megawatt-hours)

 Sulfur dioxide emissions 

 Nitrogen oxides emissions 

 Electricity generation

1,250,000

1,107,000

1,000,000

750,000

500,000

250,000

0

244,000

45,000

63,000

31,000

50,000

27,000

43,000

2005

2018

2019

2020

 1  SO2 and NOX reported from Duke Energy’s electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets .

Electricity 
generation

250,000

200,000

150,000

100,000

50,000

0

Water withdrawn and consumed 
for electric generation

Water withdrawn is the total volume removed 
from a water source, such as a lake or a river . 
Because of the once-through cooling systems 
on many of our coal-fired and nuclear plants, 
almost 99 percent of this water is returned to 
the source and available for other uses . Water 
consumed is the amount of water removed for 
use and not returned to the source . 

Emissions from electric generation

Many factors influence emissions levels and 
intensities, including demand for electricity, 
generation diversity and efficiency, weather, 
fuel and purchased power prices, and 
emissions controls deployed . Since 2005, our 
carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions decreased by 
over 40 percent, sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions 
decreased by over 95 percent and nitrogen 
oxides (NOX) emissions decreased by over 
80 percent . These decreases are primarily due 
to decreased demand for electricity in 2020 
due to the economic downturn caused by the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the addition of pollution 
control equipment for SO2 and NOX in previous 
years, decreased coal generation, increased 
natural gas and renewables generation and 
replacement of higher-emitting plants . 

37 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Methane emissions from  
natural gas distribution

Methane (CH4) is the primary component of 
natural gas, and is a greenhouse gas . We 
work to minimize methane emissions, but 
some is released during pipeline operations 
and maintenance . Duke Energy announced in 
October 2020 its goal of reducing methane 
emissions in its natural gas distribution 
companies to net-zero by 2030 .

Sulfur hexafluoride emissions

Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) is an insulating gas 
used in high-voltage electric transmission 
and distribution switchgear equipment, and 
is a greenhouse gas . We work to minimize 
SF6 emissions, but some is released during 
transmission and distribution operations 
and maintenance .

Environmental Performance Metrics 
CONTINUED

Methane Emissions from Natural Gas Distribution 
(thousand short tons) 1

CH4 emissions (CO2 equivalent) 

2017

175

2018

176

2019

185

2020

196

 1  Methane emissions are calculated by applying EPA emission factors to the miles of pipeline and the number of services, and adding 

component leaks based on survey data .

Sulfur Hexafluoride Emissions from Electric Transmission 
and Distribution 
(thousand short tons) 1

SF6 emissions (CO2 equivalent) 

2017

536

2018

336

2019

526

2020

423

 1  SF6 emissions fluctuations are due to maintenance, replacement and storm repair needs .

Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(thousand short tons)

Power purchases
Estimated CO2 emissions from power purchases for Duke Energy facilities that are not 
served by Duke Energy itself .

2019

5 .8 

2020

4.1  

Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(thousand short tons)

Fuel and energy-related activities (not reported in Scope 1 or 2)
Estimated CO2 equivalent emissions associated with electricity
Duke Energy purchased for resale .

Use of sold products  
Estimated CO2 equivalent emissions from the use of natural
gas that Duke Energy delivered to its end-use customers .

Employee travel
Estimated CO2 emissions associated with employee air and auto travel .

2019

2020

13,400 

14,600 

19,400

18,300

18 .1

5.4

38 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Environmental Performance Metrics 
CONTINUED

Toxic Release Inventory 
(thousand pounds) 1

Releases to air

Releases to water

Releases to land

Off-site transfers

Total

2007

97,969

257

22,052

155

2017

5,226

174

9,728

2,211

120,434

17,338

2018

5,110

520

10,148

3,469

19,246

2019

4,259

162

8,290

3,122

15,832

 1  Data pertain to electric generation facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and where Duke Energy is the responsible reporting 

party . Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding .

Waste

Solid waste

2017

2018

2019

2020

 ¡ Total generated (thousand tons) 1 

 ¡ Percent recycled

Hazardous waste generated (tons) 2 

Low-level radioactive waste (Class A, B and C) 
generated (cubic feet) 3 

109

80%

126

104

79%

281

118

77%

232

108

80%

2,536

148,188

126,123

140,331 

—

 1  Weights are estimated based on volumes where necessary . Excludes Duke Energy Renewables, which has smaller volumes, and 

large nonreplicable projects such as plant demolitions . Piedmont Natural Gas is included beginning in 2017 .

 2  Hazardous waste generation fluctuates mainly due to maintenance projects . For example, in 2020 a very large project was 

completed at one of our power plants . 

 3  Total of Class A, B and C waste disposal as reported to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission . Crystal River Unit 3 is not included in 

these statistics, because it is not part of the operating fleet, and is retired . Data for 2020 will be available later in 2021 . 

Reportable Oil Spills 1

Spills

Gallons

 1  Excludes Piedmont Natural Gas .

2017

46

5,062

2018

32

387

2019

17

140

2020

18

208

Environmental Regulatory Citations 1

Citations

Fines/penalties (dollars)

 1 

Includes U .S . federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties .

2017

10

2018

17

2019

25

$19,797

$533,776

$97,558

2020

13

$581

Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)

Duke Energy’s TRI releases for 2019 were 
down 87 percent from 2007, primarily due to 
the significant investments we’ve made in 
environmental controls for our power plants, 
and decreased coal generation . Variations in 
releases were largely due to coal ash basins 
and their closure operations . These releases 
are expected to decrease significantly as coal 
ash basins are closed . (Data for 2020 will be 
available in August 2021 .)

Waste

Duke Energy met its goal to recycle 80 percent 
of solid waste . We are working on strategies to 
continually improve performance on this goal 
in the future . (This goal excludes Duke Energy 
Renewables, which has a relatively small 
waste stream .) 

Reportable oil spills

Oil spills include releases of lubricating 
oil from generating stations, leaks from 
transformers, or damage caused by weather 
or by third parties (typically because of 
auto accidents) .

Environmental regulatory citations

The increase in the number of citations from 
2018 to 2019 was due mostly to an increase 
in water discharge reporting and compliance 
issues, which have been resolved with 
regulatory authorities .

39 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / ENVIRONMENTAL

Social

Improving the lives of our 
customers and communities . 

Building a safe, diverse and 
engaged workforce . 

40 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Social

2020 Highlights

 ■ Exceeded our internal customer satisfaction metric target by nearly 15 percent. 

 ■ Provided electric rates below the national average in all customer classes and all 

service areas for the seventh consecutive year. 

 ■ Duke Energy and its Foundation provided more than $8 million to COVID-19 relief 
efforts, and more than $2 million was provided by the Duke Energy Foundation to 
social justice and racial equity organizations.

 ■ Our employees and retirees volunteered over 70,000 hours, mostly through 

virtual events.

 ■ Our economic development team helped attract nearly 18,000 new jobs and 

$9.1 billion in capital investment to our service territories.

 ■ Quickly put protocols in place to protect our employees and customers and moved 

approximately 18,000 employees to remote work. 

 ■ Remained one of the electric utility industry’s top leaders in safety performance with a 

total incident case rate of 0.33. 

 ■ Named one of America’s Best Employers for Diversity and one of America’s Best 

Employers for Women in 2020 by Forbes magazine.

 ■ Conducted more than 500 Pathways to Inclusion sessions for employees to share 

ways to make our workplace more inclusive.

 ■ Received a perfect score for the fourth year in a row on the Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation’s 2021 Corporate Equality Index, earning inclusion on the organization’s 
list of Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality.

Challenges and Opportunities

 ■ Continue to engage with stakeholders to achieve positive outcomes on matters 

important to our communities.

 ■ Respond to the accelerating pace of industry transformation and use data, technology 

and insights to be more efficient and bring customers better value.

 ■ Foster a high-performance and inclusive culture built on strong leadership, safety, 

diversity and engaged employees.

 ■ Ensure transfer of knowledge from our workers nearing retirement to other employees. 

41 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Throughout the crisis, 
Duke Energy worked 
diligently to connect 
customers to federal 
funding in efforts to 
help those in need of 
economic assistance.

Being There for Customers 

Delivering customer-focused, innovative 
solutions to meet our customers’ needs 
is at the forefront of everything we do at 
Duke Energy.

This drive was never more evident than last 
year when the COVID-19 pandemic led to 
significant financial hardship for many of 
our customers and communities.

At the start of the pandemic, the 
company launched a sweeping series of 
unprecedented steps to help Duke Energy 
and Piedmont Natural Gas customers, 
including suspending disconnections for 
nonpayment and suspending late payment 
fees and credit card payment fees.

Early on the company reached out to those 
customers with past-due balances, offering 
flexible payment arrangements. We also 
developed a host of convenient new digital 
tools that:

 ■ Enabled customers to self-enroll 

in online interest-free, multimonth 
installment plans

 ■ Allowed our agency partners to provide 
financial commitments electronically 
and, in some instances, process 
payments collectively

 ■ Gave customers a one-stop destination 
for the most up-to-date information 
with a dedicated COVID-19 webpage

 ■ Prepared over 800 employee 

volunteers with the necessary means 
to join our call center employees and 
offer customers one-on-one assistance 
as we resumed our standard billing 
and credit policies

And throughout the crisis, Duke Energy 
worked diligently to connect customers to 
federal funding in efforts to help those in 
need of economic assistance.

The ability to pivot and to do so quickly 
was recognized by our customers 
and resulted in the highest customer 
satisfaction ratings the company has 
experienced in several years, surpassing 
our internal target that measures customer 
satisfaction by nearly 15 percent. In 
addition, Duke Energy’s improvement in 
J.D. Power Customer Service Indices has 
outpaced the industry.

Duke Energy continues to take direct action 
to address customers who are experiencing 
hardships as a result of the pandemic. In 
2021, the company remains focused on 
providing flexible payment policies to those 
customers in need.

42 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Bringing Jobs and Investment to 
Local Communities 

In 2020, Duke Energy’s economic development team 
helped bring nearly 18,000 new jobs and $9.1 billion 
in new capital investment, through 114 projects, to 
local communities in North Carolina, South Carolina, 
Florida, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky – states served by 
Duke Energy’s electric utilities.

Projects included a $450 million investment in 
Rockingham County, North Carolina, where an 
abandoned brewery will be transformed into a pet food 
manufacturing facility, and a similar project in Ohio.

Duke Energy’s economic development team specializes 
in multiple business sectors, including aerospace, data 
centers, advanced manufacturing, automotive, life 
sciences and food/beverage processing.

In addition, the team evaluated 21 properties for 
potential business and industrial development through 
Duke Energy’s Site Readiness Program. The company 
uses the program to partner with local economic 
development agencies to identify potential industrial sites, 
assess the sites’ strengths and weaknesses, facilitate site 
improvements, and market the sites to future businesses.

Since 2005, the Site Readiness Program has evaluated 
312 sites – with 66 “project wins,” generating 
$9.4 billion in new capital investment and more than 
13,000 new jobs.

In 2020, Duke Energy also provided more than $2 million 
to local economic development agencies and initiatives 
to fund job creation and business development projects. 
In addition, Site Selection magazine named Duke Energy 
to its “Top Utilities in Economic Development” list for the 
16th consecutive year.

Duke Energy’s Electric Rates: 
Below U.S. Average

In effect as of July 1, 2020  
(cents per kilowatt-hour (kWh))

Residential

Duke Energy Kentucky  

8.96

Duke Energy Carolinas-NC  

10.70

Duke Energy Indiana  

Duke Energy Ohio 

Duke Energy Progress-NC 

Duke Energy Progress-SC  

Duke Energy Carolinas-SC  

Duke Energy Florida  

U.S. AVERAGE  

Commercial

Duke Energy Progress-NC  

Duke Energy Kentucky 

Duke Energy Ohio  

Duke Energy Progress-SC  

Duke Energy Carolinas-NC  

Duke Energy Indiana  

Duke Energy Carolinas-SC 

Duke Energy Florida  

U.S. AVERAGE  

11.39

11.40

 11.98

12.16

12.21

13.01

13.65

8.65

 8.85

8.98

9.13

9.22

9.47

10.11

10.21

11.30

Industrial

Duke Energy Carolinas-SC  

7.90

Duke Energy Progress-SC  

Duke Energy Kentucky  

Duke Energy Progress-NC  

Duke Energy Ohio  

Duke Energy Indiana  

Duke Energy Carolinas-NC  

Duke Energy Florida  

U.S. AVERAGE  

7.99

8.07

8.11

8.14

8.29

8.35

9.35

9.46

Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average Rates Reports, Summer 2020 
(latest available) .

Notes: Rates are based on the following typical bill assumptions . Residential: 1,000 
kWh per month usage . Commercial: 40-kW demand and 14,000 kWh per month usage . 
Industrial: 1,000-kW demand and 400,000 kWh per month usage . Includes rates for 
vertically integrated utilities only . Certain adjustments made due to computation errors .

43 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Economic Development

Duke Energy works with state and local authorities 
to promote economic growth in our communities, 
helping attract business investment and jobs. 
Duke Energy helped attract approximately 18,000 
jobs and $9.1 billion of investment in 2020. 

$9 .1 billion

Total Capital Investment

18,000

Total Jobs

North Carolina

South Carolina

Indiana

Florida 

Ohio–Kentucky 

CAPITAL INVESTMENT 
$6.1 billion 

CAPITAL INVESTMENT
$646 million

CAPITAL INVESTMENT 
$1.1 billion

CAPITAL INVESTMENT
$365 million

CAPITAL INVESTMENT
$925 million

JOBS
8,038 

JOBS
1,260 

JOBS
5,208 

JOBS
1,522 

JOBS 
1,941

Reliability is a Priority

Safe, reliable power is a high priority for Duke Energy 
and our 7.9 million customers. To help improve reliability 
performance, each year the company sets customer 
delivery and generation reliability targets.

Customer Delivery

Duke Energy began using the customer delivery reliability 
measure in 2019, which takes into account the average 
duration of outages, customers experiencing multiple 
outages and customers experiencing lengthy outages. 
The 2019 and 2020 targets were 100 or higher (higher 
is better). The 2019 result was 144, and the 2020 result 
was 88. We did not meet our 2020 target due to severe 
weather in our service territories.

Generation

Duke Energy has a diverse, increasingly clean generation 
fleet with carbon-free nuclear, hydro, wind and solar; 
lower-carbon natural gas; and higher-carbon coal and 
oil-powered plants. And in 2020, the fleet reliably met 
customer demand.

The nuclear fleet optimized reliability, which is a measure 
of generation reliability along with the cost to achieve 
that reliability, continued a six-year positive trend, with a 
2020 index of 183.97. The fossil/hydro fleet’s optimized 
reliability continued its six-year positive trend, with a 
2020 index of 55.93. The commercial fleet’s renewables 
availability was 94.3 percent, showing solid performance 
and an improvement over 2019.

Generation Reliability

Nuclear optimized 
reliability1, 2   

Fossil/hydro optimized 
reliability1, 2 

Commercial renewables 
availability2

2017

2018

2019

2020

230 .46

198 .49

183 .36

183.97

61 .64

59 .54

57 .83

55.93

94 .6% 95 .3% 94 .0% 94.3%

1   Lower numbers indicate better performance .
2  Based on units operated by Duke Energy and ownership share .

2020
Target

197.38
(lower is 
better)

57.47
(lower is 
better)

95.0%
(higher 
is better)

44 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Duke Energy and its 
Foundation provided 
more than $8 million in 
support of hunger relief, 
local health and human 
services, educational 
initiatives, public utility 
assistance and small 
business relief.

Supporting our 
Customers, Communities 
and Employees

2020 brought an immense number of 
challenges for our country, communities, 
customers and employees. To provide 
relief, the Duke Energy Foundation 
adapted to support those in need 
providing a total of $31.9 million in 
charitable giving.

COVID-19 support

Duke Energy and its Foundation provided 
more than $8 million in support of hunger 
relief, local health and human services, 
educational initiatives, public utility 
assistance and small business relief. 
Initial giving focused on hunger relief, 
such as meals for seniors, children and 
families affected by school closings and 
in support of local health and human 
services organizations.

Giving shifted as needs grew to focus 
on public utility assistance across 
most of our service territory, feeding 
and supporting our critical health care 
workers in the Midwest and Duke Energy 
small business support. In addition, 
the Duke Energy Foundation provided 
more than $550,000 in assistance 
to qualified employees through the 
Relief4Employees program.

Social justice and racial equity

The racial injustice and social unrest 
highlighted the systemic racism and 
inequity many Americans face. The 
Duke Energy Foundation committed more 
than $2 million to social justice and racial 
equity organizations with $1 million in 
employee-directed grants.

Employees from an employee-led 
resource group, Advocates for African 
Americans, and from company Diversity 
and Inclusion Councils worked to identify 
local organizations. One hundred twenty 
organizations focused on reducing 
disparities, civic engagement and policy 
and criminal justice reform across the 
seven states where the company has 
natural gas and electric customers 
received funds.

A key focus of 2020 charitable giving was 
COVID-19 relief and racial equity. The 
Powerful Communities workforce and 
nature grants continued with a focus on 
how to best meet the community needs 
with the flexibility that 2020 demanded.

The company recognizes the needs are 
great for many. Duke Energy continues to 
look for ways to support our customers, 
communities and employees.

45 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Employees Stay Committed 
to Communities 

Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Duke Energy teammates 
were as committed to their communities as ever in 2020 
– providing over 70,000 volunteer hours, mainly through 
virtual events.

Through the company’s signature volunteerism initiative, 
Illuminating Kindness, employees participated in virtual 
volunteer events like creating storm kits (as shown in 
photo), writing cards for first responders and helping 
food banks stay stocked. In recognition for these acts 
of kindness, the company donated $50,000 toward 
customer assistance in honor of our employee volunteers. 

Employees found ways to volunteer throughout the year 
in all seven states Duke Energy serves. In Nashville, 
Tami Sturges had an idea that would help young adults 
find affordable housing.

When her team noticed a house was in the path of a 
pipeline project, she wondered if it could be repurposed 
until it had to be demolished. With a few co-workers and 
help from nonprofit Monroe Harding, which provides foster 
care and housing assistance, they furnished the three-
bedroom house and found tenants to fill it.

In Florida, Duke Energy employees found another unusual 
way to volunteer their time and talent. Eric Latimer, who 
manages the company’s Crystal River Mariculture Center, 
provided the Citrus County Family Resource Center with 
enough fresh fish fillets to feed 1,500 families.

2020 Charitable Giving

$49 .5
million

Total Charitable  
Giving

$31 .9m
Duke Energy Foundation
$7 .2m 
Other company cash contributions 1 and in-kind 
gifts and services 2
$8 .4m 
Cash contributions from employees and retirees

$2 .0m
Estimated value of volunteers’ time

 1 
Includes charitable giving associated with regulatory settlements .
 2  Payment made in the form of goods and services instead of money .

46 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

To respond to the 
challenges created by 
COVID‑19, the company 
quickly mobilized a 
cross-functional team 
to ensure the safety of 
our workforce and that 
we continued to provide 
essential power to 
our communities.

He and other employees helped prepare 
and transport the fish, which were raised 
at the Mariculture Center. The Mariculture 
Center exists to serve an ever-increasing 
role in environmental stewardship, and 
Latimer and his team are always looking 
for ways to help the community – during 
the pandemic, he said, nothing is more 
important than feeding people.

Continuing to Improve 
on Safety

Although the COVID-19 pandemic 
presented a significant challenge in 2020, 
Duke Energy’s proactive response allowed 
our workforce to sustain daily operations 
while continuing to deliver strong 
safety results.

Duke Energy’s total incident case rate 
improved in 2020 to 0.33, the lowest 
in five years. Tragically, one employee 
was fatally injured and another suffered 
a life-altering injury. The company 
will lean on its industry-leading safety 
culture as it continues to strive for zero 
significant injuries.

To respond to the challenges created by 
COVID-19, the company quickly mobilized 
a cross-functional team to ensure the 

Safety Performance Metrics

safety of our workforce and that we 
continued to provide essential power 
to our communities. The team took a 
systematic approach to limiting potential 
exposure to the virus and conducing 
testing and exposure tracking.

Duke Energy implemented workplace 
disinfection and social distancing practices 
and provided workers with personal 
protective equipment, following guidance 
from the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. Employees also leveraged 
technology to minimize personal contact, 
including enabling nearly all customer 
care representatives to work from home 
helping to mitigate the spread of the virus. 
In all, the company implemented 20 new 
guidance procedures to help employees 
and leaders understand and adhere to 
COVID-19 safety measures.

Beyond implementing extensive workplace 
safety measures, Duke Energy provided 
resources and enhanced benefits to 
support our workers’ mental and physical 
health during this challenging year. For 
example, the company offered health care 
coverage for COVID-19 testing, wellness 
coaching and flexible paid time off. It also 
launched an in-house nurse response 
team to guide exposed employees through 
recovery and eventual return to work.

Employee and contractor work-related fatalities

Employee total incident case rate (TICR) 2, 3 

Employee lost workday case rate (LWCR)2, 5 

2017

2

0 .36

0 .15

2018 1

3

0 .43 4 

0 .15

2019 

3

0 .38

0 .14

2020

1

0.33

0.18

 1  2018 is the first year that Piedmont Natural Gas results are included .
 2 
Includes both employees and workforce augmentation contractors .
 3  Number of recordable incidents per 100 workers (based on OSHA criteria) . Top decile in 2019 for employee TICR was 0 .53 (Edison Electric 

Institute survey for companies with more than 7,000 employees) .

 4  TICR excluding Natural Gas Business Unit was 0 .34 . 
 5  Number of lost workdays per 100 workers .

47 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Duke Energy was one 
of the first companies 
in our industry to adopt 
a Human Rights Policy 
that outlines policies 
and practices to ensure 
an ongoing commitment 
to and respect for 
human rights.

In addition, Duke Energy is committed 
to serving as a strong community 
partner, actively working to help ensure 
the communities we operate in are 
valued and respected and treated 
equitably and fairly. The company will 
engage intentionally and proactively 
with stakeholders by listening, 
seeking feedback and responding 
to questions and concerns when 
working on infrastructure projects.

Duke Energy embraces environmental 
justice principles that advance the 
fair treatment and ensure meaningful 
involvement of the communities we serve, 
regardless of race, color, national origin, 
or income. These principles guide how 
we conduct business in our communities; 
whether that is siting or building a 
new facility or developing technologies 
and infrastructure, we do so with the 
community in mind.

As the company transitions to cleaner 
energy, we recognize the importance of 
our power plants to both the communities 
and the local workforce. As we retire 
coal plants, we will strive – as we have 
done in the past – to transition impacted 
employees to new opportunities and 
will work to match communities with 
appropriate resources. (See related article 
“Developing Inside Talent.”)

This will continue to be an important 
conversation as Duke Energy – along 
with all stakeholders – strive for a cleaner 
energy future for all.

Duke Energy’s rigorous approach to health 
and safety will continue in 2021 as it 
looks for additional ways to support our 
workers, customers and communities.

Expanding Support of 
Human Rights

Human rights are the basic rights and 
freedoms to which all humans are 
entitled. The freedom to life, liberty and  
personal security. The right to equality 
and freedom from discrimination and 
degrading treatment.

In April 2019, Duke Energy was one 
of the first companies in our industry 
to adopt a Human Rights Policy that 
outlines policies and practices to ensure 
an ongoing commitment to and respect 
for human rights. Duke Energy respects 
international human rights principles, 
including those identified by the 
United Nations. Duke Energy prohibits 
the use of forced labor, child labor and 
any form of human trafficking.

The company joins many national 
and global businesses that commit to 
mitigating human rights issues through 
educating employees about how to 
identify and report possible human rights 
abuses like human trafficking.

Duke Energy developed the Energy 
Workers Against Human Trafficking 
training course. The course is being 
deployed among field workers, who 
through their extensive work throughout 
our communities, may observe signs 
of human trafficking. In the training, 
workers learn how to recognize the signs 
of human trafficking and report what they 
see to the appropriate authorities.

48 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Our Diversity and Inclusion Journey

This past year taught Duke Energy a lot about listening 
and learning from our employees, customers and 
communities. It brought us closer together and furthered 
us along our journey to be more equitable, inclusive 
and transparent.

Duke Energy’s diversity and inclusion (D&I) foundation is 
built on these key priorities: 

 ■ Leadership commitment and accountability

 ■

Improving the diversity of our workforce and leadership

 ■ Strengthening our culture of inclusion 

Learn more about the actions we are taking in each of 
these areas.

The culture, accountability and support for D&I starts 
at the top with our leadership team. We work hard to 
provide a culture that ensures employees feel welcomed, 
respected, heard and valued – and able to bring the best 
version of themselves to work every day. An empowered 
diverse workforce and inclusive workplace makes us a 
stronger company and provides a competitive advantage 
for connecting with the ever-changing needs of our 
customers and communities.

We believe transparency is an important part of our 
journey and our aspiration is to reach targets that are 
goal markers for D&I progress. We remain focused on 
our goals of increasing the representation of females 
and race/ethnicity in the workforce to 25 percent and 
20 percent, respectively. 

Our diversity data will continue to be noted in the 
Workforce Performance Metrics section of this report to 
follow our progress each year.

The events of 2020 once again illuminated the issue 
of systemic racism and inequity suffered by many 
Americans in the United States. Internally, we listened, 
learned and related to one another through more than 
500 Pathways to Inclusion sessions. These conversations 
were also an opportunity for employees to share ways to 
make our workplace more inclusive.

These conversations sparked the formation of a new 
enterprise level Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council to 
reinforce the work of numerous existing business unit D&I 
Councils and help accelerate our progress on diversity 
and inclusion at Duke Energy. 

Externally, the Duke Energy Foundation committed 
more than $2 million to social justice and racial equity 
organizations with $1 million in employee-directed 
grants. Employees from an employee-led resource group, 
Advocates for African Americans, and from company 
D&I Councils worked to identify local organizations. 
The company will continue to engage employees, local 
organizations and leaders to understand how to be a part 
of the long-term solutions our communities seek.

Much more work is needed to turn actions into results. 
We are committed to this journey and know that 
our success makes us stronger as a company and 
a community.

49 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Developing Inside Talent

The acceleration of digital technology and changes in the 
industry have impacted the way we work. Duke Energy 
is preparing for the future through a focus on developing 
skills and agility across our workforce.

As the COVID-19 pandemic swept the globe, 
Duke Energy paused its external hiring efforts, which 
created a natural emphasis and real-time need to have a 
flexible internal workforce.

At the same time, the company accelerated the launch 
of an internal talent marketplace to leverage short-
term, temporary assignments to provide greater career 
development opportunities for employees. The popular 
program is creating greater flexibility for our workforce.

In fact, more than one-third of employees participating 
in temporary assignments are working outside of their 
normal business unit. Feedback from participants 
expressed support for the program – creating an 
atmosphere where current employees can learn and grow 
within the company.

The company also launched a new online learning 
platform – including learning programs for cybersecurity, 
IT and other important skills. This will help prepare 
employees to take on new roles and opportunities in 
critical areas.

Duke Energy is a strong believer in workforce agility – 
building new skills and competencies and continuing to 
shift the mindset about new ways of working. This will 
provide a competitive advantage going forward.

Learn more about how Duke Energy’s learning and 
development programs prepare leaders and employees to 
meet future challenges.

Net Promoter Score Tracks 
Employee Engagement 

In January 2018, Duke Energy began using the Net 
Promotor Score (NPS), a well-known metric used to 
measure customer loyalty. The company captures 
information through its own proprietary survey. In the 
three years the company has been collecting NPS data, 
the survey has helped us significantly improve customer 
satisfaction by acting upon valuable insights gained about 
what matters most to customers. 

In 2020, we started applying the lessons learned from 
our customer experience team to launch a new employee 
survey using an employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS). 
This new approach will enable us to leverage the success 
of the customer satisfaction program to also improve 
employee engagement. Duke Energy firmly believes 
that how customers feel about the experience of doing 
business with us begins with engaged employees. 

The 2020 employee engagement survey allowed 
employees to make their voices heard, with 63 percent of 
employees participating. We began measuring employees’ 
likelihood to recommend Duke Energy as a place to work 
by asking the eNPS question, “How likely are you to 
recommend working at Duke Energy or Piedmont Natural 
Gas to a friend or colleague?” We now have a solid 
baseline to build upon, allowing us to set a percentage 
improvement objective in the future.

Overall, employees feel proud to work at Duke Energy 
and are motivated to help the company reach its goals. 
Of particular note, 90 percent of employees said their 
immediate manager supports diversity and inclusion in 
the workplace. Employees also identified aligning rewards 
with performance as an improvement opportunity. 

In 2021, the company is enhancing our approach to 
the employee engagement survey and implementing 
ongoing monthly status checks. We will provide 
data-driven insights to our leaders for ongoing employee 
conversations, enabling deeper discussions around 
employee sentiment at the team level. We will also 
continue to develop and implement programs to support 
a new employee engagement framework focused on 
helping employees feel heard, included and enabled to 
be successful in their roles.

50 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

Workforce Performance Metrics

Workforce Statistics

Full- and part-time employees 

Collective bargaining unit members as percent of workforce

Workforce Demographics

12/31/18

12/31/19

12/31/20

29,923

18 .1%

28,649

18 .8%

27,730

18.7%

The company has deployed strategies to increase the diversity of our workforce, including a team that is dedicated to recruiting from historically black 
colleges and universities, community colleges and diverse professional organizations . These strategies also include understanding and mitigating 
potential barriers for underrepresented groups . The COVID-19 pandemic led to an external hiring pause in 2020 and we did not make the workforce 
progress desired . However, progress is being made advancing diverse representation in leadership .  

12/31/18

12/31/19

12/31/20

Workforce Diversity

 ¡ Females as percent of workforce

 ¡ Race/Ethnicity as percent of workforce

Leadership Diversity

 ¡ Females as percent of all leadership1

 ¡ Females as percent of vice presidents and above

 ¡ Females as percent of chief officer roles (COO, CFO, etc .)

 ¡ Race/Ethnicity as percent of all leadership1

 ¡ Race/Ethnicity as percent of vice presidents and above

 ¡ Race/Ethnicity as percent of chief officer roles (COO, CFO, etc .)

1  “All Leadership” includes EEO-1 Job Categories “Executive or Senior Level Officials and Managers” and “First or Mid-Level Officials and Managers .”

Employee Turnover Summary

Turnover as percent of workforce

Percentage of employees eligible to retire in five years 1 
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 10 years 1 

 1  “Eligible to retire” is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least five years of service .

23 .3%

18 .1%

18 .8%

22 .2%

28 .6%

11 .9%

18 .5%

19 .0%

2018

8 .0%

42%

54%

23 .7%

18 .8%

19 .4%

23 .5%

28 .6%

12 .3%

17 .6%

23 .8%

2019

12 .2%

41%

52%

23.3%

18.8%

19.8%

27.2%

30.4%

13.0%

18.5%

26.1%

2020

5.7%

42%

53%

A Multigenerational Workforce

Five Generations of Duke Energy Employees*

Gen X, millennial and Gen Z workers collectively represent about 
73 percent of Duke Energy’s workforce . Traditionalists and baby 
boomers comprise about 27 percent . The company highly values every 
employee from every generation, every background and every way of 
life . Duke Energy workers’ diverse skills, deep knowledge and broad 
experience ensure that customers’ energy needs are reliably met, 
around the clock .

  0.1%   Traditionalists (born before 1946)
  26%   Baby boomers (born 1946-1964)
  41%   Generation X (born 1965-1981)
  30%   Millennials (born 1982-1995)

2%    Generation Z (born after 1995)

* Percentages don’t total 100% due to rounding .

51 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

 
 
 
Workforce Performance Metrics
CONTINUED

Workforce Demographics by Job Category

Duke Energy’s diverse and inclusive workforce meets the energy needs of a growing and similarly diverse customer base . 

Black or 
African 
American

Hispanic or 
Latino

Native 
Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific
Islander

American 
Indian or 
Alaska Native 

Asian

Two or  
more races 

2020 

EEO-1 Job Category 1 

Executive or Senior Level Officials and Managers

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

First or Mid-Level Officials and Managers 

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Professionals

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Technicians

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Sales Workers

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Administrative Support Workers 

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Craft Workers

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Operatives 

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Laborers and Helpers

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Service Workers 

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

Totals by Race

 ¡ Male

 ¡ Female

White

141

103

38

3,416

2,823

593

8,533

6,369

2,164

1,364

1,214

150

66

51

15

1,380

260

1,120

7,174

7,017

157

420

394

26

36

31

5

0

0

0

19

13

6

319

204

115

1,097

586

511

141

107

34

9

4

5

1,029

169

860

658

617

41

45

42

3

12

10

2

0

0

0

4

3

1

79

52

27

314

198

116

31

25

6

1

0

1

200

66

134

127

123

4

4

4

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

760

471

289

0

0

0

4

4

0

3

1

2

1

1

0

0

0

0

4

2

2

3

3

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

15

11

4

5

4

1

49

34

15

371

246

125

15

10

5

0

0

0

19

5

14

32

29

3

1

1

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

492

329

163

 1  Data as of December 31, 2020, as submitted by Duke Energy on its consolidated EEO-1 report to U .S . Equal Employment Opportunity Commission .

52 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / SOCIAL

3

2

1

21

17

4

43

33

10

13

11

2

1

1

0

14

0

14

81

77

4

5

5

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

1

0

29

20

9

157

116

41

21

19

2

0

0

0

105

33

72

108

106

2

2

2

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Total

173

126

47

3,917

3,154

763

10,518

7,549

2,969

1,586

1,387

199

77

56

21

2,751

535

2,216

8,183

7,972

211

477

448

29

48

41

7

0

0

0

22,530

18,262

4,268

3,329

1,752

1,577

181

146

35

423

297

126

27,730

21,268

6,462

Governance

Delivering results with 
transparency and accountability .

53 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Governance

2020 Highlights

 ■ Achieved adjusted earnings per share of $5.12, compared to $5.06 in 2019.

 ■ Swiftly responded to COVID-19 with exceptional cost management, producing 

$450 million in mitigation actions.

 ■ Hosted inaugural Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Day for investors, 

showcasing our clean energy transformation. 

 ■

 ■

Implemented the Hire North Carolina program to maximize the use of locally owned 
and diverse contractors for major construction.

In early 2021, published a report that reviewed the major trade associations to which 
the company belongs and their positions on climate policy.

Challenges and Opportunities

 ■ Deliver value to our stakeholders and grow our business by investing $59 billion in 
capital over the next five years, with an emphasis on investments in the grid and 
cleaner energy.

 ■ Stay abreast of best practices and continue to provide strong corporate governance.

 ■ Continue to be a leader in environmental, social and governance (ESG) transparency in 

our industry.

54 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Effective Governance at the Top 

Effective corporate governance is a critical component 
to the success of Duke Energy’s business strategy. Our 
Board of Directors, led by our Chair, President and CEO 
Lynn Good, provides the leadership and guidance that 
drives sustainable, long-term value for our stakeholders, 
employees, customers and the communities in which 
we serve.

Our Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s 
long-term strategy to provide clean, reliable and 
affordable energy to our customers. As part of this 
oversight, the Board focuses on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) matters, goals and strategies, as 
well as how our company’s performance metrics and 
incentives align with those goals.

The Board looks at the composition of its members 
annually – with a strong focus on diversity, including 
gender, race, background, skills and areas of experience 
– which enhances the quality of the Board’s discussions 
and decisions.

The Board is structured with a strong independent 
lead director role that assists the chair and CEO in 
setting agendas, approves meeting schedules, and 
leads the independent members of the Board in 
executive committee sessions at each meeting, among 
other responsibilities.

All members of the Board, except Good, are independent 
and comprise the six committees: Audit, Compensation 
and People Development, Corporate Governance, Finance 
and Risk Management, Operations and Nuclear Oversight, 
and Regulatory Policy. The committees oversee all 
operational, financial, strategic and reputational risks as 
set forth in their respective committee charters.

For more information about our Board of Directors, see 
the proxy statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders and the corporate governance section of 
our website.

Our Board Composition

Tenure*

4 .7 

AVERAGE YEARS

Age*

63 

AVERAGE YEARS

S
R
A
E
Y

S
R
A
E
Y

1-5

6-10

3

11-15

1

3

50s

60s

70s

2

9

8

Board 
Refreshment*

Gender, Racial and 
Ethnic Diversity*

69%

38%

9 out of 13 director 
nominees were first 
appointed or nominated 
for election in the last 
five years

5 out of 13  
director nominees 
are female or identify 
as a part of a 
minority group

Independence

12 out of 13  
director nominees are independent  
(all directors except chair, president and CEO)

*Information provided for director nominees at the 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders .

55 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

The Board of Directors’ 
Compensation and 
People Development 
Committee added a 
climate-related metric 
to the short-term 
incentive plan in 2021, 
further bolstering the 
company’s commitment 
to decarbonization.

Compensation: Based on 
Performance, Metrics 

Duke Energy maintains a performance-
based, metrics-driven executive 
compensation program, designed to:

 ■ Link pay to performance

 ■ Attract and retain talented executives 

and other key employees

 ■ Emphasize performance-based 

compensation to motivate executives 
and other key employees

 ■ Reward individual performance

 ■ Encourage long-term commitment to 

Duke Energy

 ■ Align executives’ interests with those 

of stakeholders, including shareholders 
and customers

The company meets these objectives 
through a mix of compensation that 
includes base salary, short-term incentives, 
and long-term incentives consisting 
of performance shares and restricted 
stock units.

To support clean energy initiatives, 
Duke Energy measures the performance 
of its nuclear and renewable generation 
assets through a reliability metric under the 
company’s short-term incentive (STI) plan. 

The Board of Directors’ Compensation and 
People Development Committee added a 
climate-related metric to the STI plan in 
2021, further bolstering the company’s 
commitment to decarbonization. The 
metric focuses on incenting Duke Energy’s 
leadership team to advance the company’s 
climate strategy based on relevant criteria 
specific to each senior executive.

Other key components of the company’s 
compensation program include:

 ■ Environmental events metric – to 

ensure the company’s commitment to 
the environment, based on the number 
of reportable environmental events.

 ■ Customer satisfaction metric – to 
prioritize the customer experience 
and customers’ growing demands for 
cleaner energy, based on a composite of 
customer satisfaction survey results for 
each business area.

 ■ Safety metric – to ensure safety 

remains the company’s top priority with 
the goal of an injury-free workplace, 
based on the total incident case rate of 
injuries and illnesses among employees.

Duke Energy regularly reviews its 
compensation program and performance 
metrics with the Board’s Compensation 
and People Development Committee, 
revising as needed.

For more information about Duke Energy’s 
compensation practices, see the 
proxy statement for the 2021 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders.

56 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Duke Energy advanced 
its long-term strategy 
to achieve a clean 
energy future, delivered 
on its commitments 
to customers and 
shareholders and 
positioned the company 
for additional growth in 
the years ahead. 

Strong Results and a Clear 
Financial Vision 

efforts also bolstered the company’s 
earnings growth potential as it delivers 
sustainable value for shareholders. 

In 2020, Duke Energy achieved adjusted 
earnings per share (EPS) of $5.12, 
compared to $5.06 in 2019, representing 
continued growth. Despite the challenges 
presented during the year, Duke Energy 
advanced its long-term strategy to 
achieve a clean energy future, delivered 
on its commitments to customers and 
shareholders and positioned the company 
for additional growth in the years ahead.

The electric, gas and commercial 
renewables businesses delivered positive 
results in 2020, which were supported by 
significant customer growth in our electric 
and gas businesses, rate case activity in 
Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina and 
Florida, and new renewables projects 
placed in service.

In 2020, the company swiftly responded 
to COVID-19 and major storms with 
exceptional cost management, producing 
$450 million in mitigation actions.

The company also took proactive steps to 
support the balance sheet, helping pave 
the way for an increase in the company’s 
five-year capital plan to fund clean energy 
investments, grid improvement projects 
and enhance customer experience. These 

Given 2020 results and a robust 
five-year $59 billion capital plan, the 
company announced its 2021 adjusted 
EPS guidance range of $5.00 to $5.30, 
with a midpoint of $5.15 per share – 
and increased its long-term adjusted 
earnings growth rate to a range of 5 to 
7 percent through 2025, based on the 
2021 midpoint.

Duke Energy remains committed to 
offering an attractive, long-term value 
proposition to its shareholders. 2020 
marked the company’s 14th consecutive 
year of paying an increased dividend to 
its investors – growing 2 percent. The 
company’s dividend yield continues to 
be one of the highest in the industry at 
4.1 percent as of February 9, 2021.

The company also added a fourth 
transaction to its growing list of capital 
raising efforts involving minority-owned 
firms serving in lead underwriting roles – 
a clear demonstration of Duke Energy’s 
commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
Duke Energy Progress (DEP) completed 
a $700 million debt offering with 
seven diverse and minority-owned 
financial firms.

57 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Financial Highlights 
December 31, 2020

(In millions, except per share data) 1 

Total operating revenues

Income from continuing operations

Reported basic and diluted earnings per share (GAAP)

Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share (non-GAAP)

Dividends declared per share

Total assets 

Long-term debt including finance leases, less current maturities 

2018 

$24,521

$2,625

$3 .76

$4 .72

$3 .64

$145,392

$51,123

2019

$25,079

$3,578

$5 .06

$5 .06

$3 .75

$158,838

$54,985

2020

 $23,868

$1,075

$1.72

$5.12

 $3.82

$162,388

 $55,625

 1  See Duke Energy’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, for detailed notes and further explanations .

Earnings per share  
(in dollars)

Reported Diluted

Adjusted Diluted

Dividends declared 
per share (in dollars)

Capital and investment  
expenditures (dollars in billions)

5 .06

5 .06

5 .12

3 .64

3 .75

3 .82

9 .8

11 .4

10 .3

4 .72

3 .76

1 .72

2018

2019

2020

2018

2019

2020

2018

2019

2020

The company also hosted its inaugural Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) Day during 2020 – 
highlighting those important issues to shareholders.

Duke Energy’s total shareholder return – measured as the 
change in stock price plus the reinvestment of dividends – 
for 2020 was 4.8 percent, outperforming the Philadelphia 
Utilities Index (UTY) by approximately 210 basis points. 

Duke Energy is confident in its climate strategy, vibrant 
service area growth, proven capability to control costs 
and consistent work with stakeholders will achieve 
constructive outcomes that benefit a wide range of 
stakeholders. The company is confident in the road 
ahead, focused on delivering strong, long-term returns for 
our shareholders and providing industry-leading service to 
our customers for years to come.

Incorporating Risk Management 

Operating critical infrastructure to deliver clean, reliable 
and affordable energy comes with inherent risk. As 
interest around climate change and the company’s clean 
energy transition continues to grow, Duke Energy is 
leveraging its enterprisewide risk management philosophy 
to help inform and advance our long-term vision.

Duke Energy’s strong risk management culture is 
underpinned by the company’s ability to plan beyond the 
next year – or even five years. The company is looking 
into the next decade to identify, evaluate and mitigate 
risks associated with its net-zero carbon emissions target, 
including physical infrastructure, the transition to cleaner 
energy sources, federal and state energy policies and the 
development of new technologies.

58 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

To manage these risks effectively, the company includes 
climate change considerations into its annual Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) process. The ERM process is 
used to identify potential risks to corporate profitability 
and value and provides a framework to respond in an 
integrated and informed fashion.

The responsibility for managing climate risk is cascaded 
throughout the organization. Business unit leaders across 
the company analyze risks and determine how the 
company can best address near-term and long-term risks. 
The Board of Directors is also integral in reviewing the 
annual enterprise risk assessment and routinely discusses 
climate risk governance. 

Duke Energy incorporates climate, technology and 
economic risks into our long-term planning through 
integrated resource plans for each of our regulated 
electric utility companies. These 10-, 15- or 20-year 
plans (depending on the state) provide options for how 
Duke Energy can continue to serve customers and 
communities in the future.

The filings consider forecasts of potential future 
climate policies, future electricity demand, fuel prices, 
transmission improvements, new generating capacity, 
integration of renewables, energy storage, energy 
efficiency and demand response initiatives. As we prepare 
these proposals, the company incorporates feedback from 
stakeholders and clearly considers risks to reach climate-
focused goals at the state, federal and company level.

Storm Response at Home 
and Elsewhere 

A record hurricane season, winter storms and severe 
weather, and an unprecedented pandemic challenged 
Duke Energy crews and every community that we serve in 
2020. It was clear by March that the pandemic would be 
transformative for Duke Energy’s storm response process. 

A task force immediately went to work revising work 
processes and storm procedures to improve social 
distancing, modify travel and lodging procedures, deploy 
protective equipment, screen and monitor crew health, 
and coordinate storm response operations virtually.

These protocols were quickly put into action when a 
series of storms pummeled the Carolinas and Midwest 
in April, and again when hurricanes Isaias, Zeta and Eta 
struck Duke Energy service areas. This proactive planning 
resulted in no identified employee COVID-19 exposures 
during storm response efforts on our system in 2020.

Smart, self-healing technology systems helped to 
avoid more than 187,000 extended customer outages 
during storms, saving more than 1 million hours of 
lost outage time and helping speed overall storm 
restorations. Duke Energy is significantly expanding this 
technology over the next few years, which automatically 
detects power outages and reroutes power to restore 
power faster.

59 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Smart meters also play a key role in 
improved restoration times. Restoration 
teams were able to successfully ping 
41,000 meters to verify that power had 
been restored after completion of repairs, 
saving around 5,500 truck rolls and 
freeing up resources during major event 
responses in 2020.

In a record year that went beyond 
the standard list of named storms, 
Duke Energy also helped its neighbors 
recover from hurricane impacts. More 
than 3,500 Duke Energy crews and 
contract teams were deployed to assist 
multiple utilities along the Gulf Coast 
and other areas in 2020, providing more 
than 70 days of support and helping 
restore power in communities hit hard by 
extreme weather. 

The company is working hard to prepare 
for the next storm. Duke Energy recently 
completed the installation of protective 
barriers around essential systems in flood-
prone areas of the Carolinas, is continuing 
to upgrade poles and wires in vulnerable 
areas, and has grid strengthening and 
resiliency initiatives underway in all the 
regions we serve.

Diverse and Local Supplier Spending 

(in millions)

Spending with Tier I diverse suppliers 1, 2 

Spending with Tier II diverse suppliers 3 

Total diverse supplier spending

2016
$681

$494

$1,175 

2017

$776

$437

$1,213

Spending with Tier I local suppliers2
 1  Piedmont Natural Gas data from the first three quarters are included in 2016 . Full-year data are included beginning in 2017 .
 2  Tier I represents direct purchases from diverse or local suppliers . 
 3  Tier II consists of spend by Duke Energy suppliers with diverse suppliers/subcontractors .
 4  The decrease in 2020 diverse spend from 2019 was mainly due to lower overall spend .

$3,500

$3,670

Supply Chain Drives Local 
and Diverse Economic Impact 

Duke Energy promotes economic 
development and supports its 
communities through various aspects of 
its operations, including investment with 
suppliers, vendors and contractors.

In 2020, Duke Energy spent more than 
$11.7 billion purchasing goods and 
services to provide electricity and natural 
gas to our customers. Our Supplier 
Code of Conduct describes in detail our 
expectations of suppliers.

Duke Energy also rolled out an innovative 
new program during 2020 – Hire North 
Carolina – to maximize the use of locally 
owned and diverse contractors for 
major construction, extension and repair 
projects that exceed $700,000 in cost.

As part of this program, which is directed 
and overseen by the North Carolinas 
Utilities Commission, Duke Energy 
developed a list of resident contractors, 
including women- and minority-owned 
businesses, in order to expand the local 
contracting source pool for high-value 
work taking place in North Carolina, 
such as managing coal ash, upgrading 
or building plants and substations, and 
improving the grid.

2018

$850

$492

$1,342

$4,180

2019

$1,153

$467

$1,620

$4,940

2020

$895

$387 
$1,282 4 

$4,094

60 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Duke Energy prioritizes 
ethics and integrity in 
all our actions with our 
customers, employees 
and the communities 
we serve.

Hire North Carolina is in alignment 
with and a complement to our supplier 
diversity initiative and our corporate 
responsibility sourcing strategy. We 
improve the vitality of our communities by 
consistently considering local economic 
impact, diversity and sustainability in our 
sourcing selection process. During 2020, 
Duke Energy spent more than $4 billion 
with local suppliers.

Spending with diverse suppliers was 
nearly $1.3 billion, with 30 percent 
of the spending from subcontracting 
by our prime contractors. Through the 
collaborative efforts of internal customers, 
prime contractors and our supply chain 
department, Duke Energy has spent more 
than $1 billion annually with diverse 
suppliers for six consecutive years. 

Local, regional and national outreach 
efforts with educational institutions, 
trade associations, community economic 
development organizations and others 
create awareness of opportunities to work 
with Duke Energy. 

The company presented several virtual 
business opportunity forums during the 
year. It also hosted the annual Energizing 
Powerful Connections (EPC) conference. 
EPC is sponsored by six southeastern 
energy companies and focused on best 
practices and strategies for minority-
owned businesses.

As a testament to Duke Energy’s 
commitment to the equitable inclusion 
of local and diverse suppliers, it earned 
both the African American Chamber of 
Commerce of Central Florida (AACCCF) 
Corporation of the Year, and the National 
Association of Women Business Owners 
(NAWBO) Greater Raleigh Corporate 
Partner of the Year awards.

Maintaining the Focus 
on Ethics

Duke Energy prioritizes ethics and 
integrity in all our actions with our 
customers, employees and the 
communities we serve. This includes 
adhering to our ethics codes for 
directors, employees and suppliers 
and complying fully with all legal and 
regulatory requirements.

New employees are required to complete 
ethics and compliance training in their 
first 30 calendar days on the job. All 
employees also are annually required to 
complete an ethics refresher training, 
acknowledge their responsibility to comply 
with company ethics policies, and confirm 
their obligation to report violations of 
laws, rules or company policies.

61 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

The company continuously reviews 
policies and tightens controls and 
oversight whenever opportunities to 
achieve higher levels of performance and 
accountability arise. By restructuring 
reporting functions, the company’s 
designated chief ethics and compliance 
officer’s responsibilities now include a 
full-time commitment to the ethics and 
compliance program.

2020 marked the end of independent 
oversight by a court-appointed monitor 
and a second independent monitor 
required by the EPA as part of a plea 
agreement stemming from a coal ash spill 
in 2014. The company exited probation 
and debarment without a single violation 
of the agreements during those five years.

In the final report to the EPA, the 
independent monitor observed the 
company’s ethics and compliance 

program was adequately designed to 
prevent and detect non-compliance with 
applicable laws.

Duke Energy was cognizant of the varying 
ethical and security risks associated 
with a work-from-home environment. 
We digitally transformed the employee 
concerns hotline by adding an option 
to report an issue using a smartphone-
friendly form.

Employees utilized the company’s 
hotline to voice both individual and 
societal concerns, and as a result of 
lessons learned, Duke Energy revamped 
ethics training, social media, political 
activity and workplace harassment 
communications to bring a common 
understanding of an inclusive work 
environment despite the polarization of 
our social discourse.

Environmental, Social and Governance Ratings 

To drive continuous improvement, Duke Energy benchmarks its environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices against best-in-class and peer 
companies . The ESG ratings for Duke Energy by various companies are provided below .

Dow Jones Sustainability North 
American Index (DJSI NA)

0-100 (best)
Represents the top 20% of 
companies in sector

73
Duke Energy was included in the 
2019 DJSI NA

77
Duke Energy was included in 
the 2020 DJSI NA

2021 results to be 
announced in September

Scale

2019

2020

2021

MSCI

Sustainalytics

Letter grade and 0-10 (best) 
score

BBB
5 .2

A
6.7

A
6.7

O (best)-100 risk rating 
rank (1=best)

33 .3 risk rating 
45 out of 180 in global 
electric sector

33.2 risk rating
51 out of 180 in global 
electric sector

New results pending

Bloomberg ESG Disclosure Score

0-100 (best)

56 .6 
 (second-highest score for our 
peer U .S . utilities )

57.4  
(third-highest score for our 
peer U.S. utilities)

61.89  
(highest score for our peer 
U.S. utilities)

1 (best rating) -10

ISS Quality Scores 1 

 ¡ Environmental

 ¡ Social

 ¡ Governance

 1  Scores are as of March 1 .

3

4

2

3

2

1

3

3

1

62 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

In 2020, we received 2.6 reports per 
100 employees of breaches of our ethics 
codes compared to our benchmark 
median of 1.9. Of those, 40 percent 
were substantiated resulting in corrective 
action. The company also expects 
company leadership to frequently discuss 
ethical issues with employees.

Learn more about Duke Energy’s ethics 
and employee engagement programs.

Involved in the 
Political Process 

Duke Energy is in the middle of a historic 
period of transformation, as our company 
executes a bold strategy to secure a 
clean energy future for the millions of 
Americans we are proud to serve. 

This transformation requires sound policy 
at the local, state, and federal levels to 
provide the path forward for addressing 
climate change while continuing to deliver 
affordable, reliable, and increasingly 
clean energy.

It is therefore essential for the company to 
engage in public policy discussions – both 
on behalf of Duke Energy and through 
trade associations – to advocate for the 
interests of customers, shareholders, 
employees and communities.

In March of 2021, Duke Energy 
published a report that reviewed the 
major trade associations to which the 
company belongs and their positions 
on climate policy. This report is among 
the first of its kind in our industry. 

DukePAC, a voluntary, nonpartisan 
political action committee, leverages 
the collective financial contributions of 
eligible employees to support political 
organizations and candidates who share 
the concerns and best interests of 
Duke Energy employees and customers. 
In 2020, DukePAC’s total contributions 
were $1,261,320.

Duke Energy’s total reportable federal 
lobbying expenses in 2020 were 
$4,320,000. That amount includes the 
$755,197 federal lobbying portion of 
trade association dues (includes dues 
in excess of $50,000) to support policy 
research and advocacy.

The company also contributed 
approximately $2,045,000 to 
Section 527 organizations created 
to support the nomination, election, 
appointment or defeat of a candidate. 
(For additional details, see Duke Energy’s 
Corporate Political Expenditure Reports.)

63 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Duke Energy is in the 
middle of a historic 
period of transformation, 
as our company executes 
a bold strategy to secure 
a clean energy future 
for the millions of 
Americans we are proud 
to serve.

The company has a 
dedicated cybersecurity 
awareness team focused 
on educating employees 
on increasing threats – 
employing sophisticated 
test phishing emails, 
conducting annual cyber 
responsibility training, 
and creating seminars 
and video resources.

Duke Energy’s Political Expenditures 
Policy was adopted several years ago 
and is reviewed regularly. It sets out the 
principles governing our corporate political 
expenditures and the contributions of 
Duke Energy’s political action committee. 
It also requires a semiannual update on 
political expenditures to the Corporate 
Governance Committee of the Duke Energy 
Board of Directors.

Unwavering Commitment 
to Cybersecurity 

There is no denying that cybersecurity is a 
critical issue facing our country. This past 
year, we saw threats increase in frequency, 
scale and sophistication and bad actors’ 
relentlessness to exploit the global 
COVID-19 pandemic.

As an essential service provider and one 
of the largest grid operators, we recognize 
with great responsibility comes increased 
risk, so we remain laser-focused on 
protecting our teammates, assets and 
operations from cyber events. That remains 
job one for our cybersecurity team as 
we continue to modernize our grid and 
accelerate digital transformation across 
our company.

Duke Energy’s risk mitigation strategy 
is concentrated in three core areas: 
partnership and information sharing, 
multilayered defense approach, and robust 
physical and cyber security standards. 

Duke Energy routinely collaborates and 
coordinates with peer utilities, industry 
partners, government agencies and security 
organizations to share intelligence, lessons 
learned and best practices.

On defense, the company has an incident 
response team and highly skilled cyber 
and physical security professionals 
devoted to this mission 24 hours a day. 
The cross-functional team identifies and 
mitigates security incidents and engages 
organizations across the company as well 
as local, state and federal agencies to 
respond quickly. And recognizing our job 
is never done, we continue to modernize 
our cyber defense tools and processes, 
including the implementation of advanced 
security measures for the operational 
technology found in our substations, power 
plants and grid modernization initiatives.

Lastly, the electric, nuclear power and 
natural gas sectors adhere to a range 
of mandatory regulations as well as 
enforceable cybersecurity standards and 
voluntary guidelines. But we go beyond 
what is required – we’re focused on 
exceeding these standards. To ensure 
we are adequately prepared to identify, 
protect, detect, respond and recover 
from the increasing threats to our critical 
infrastructure, we conduct multiple drills 
each year to test incident response 
plans and ensure employees understand 
their roles.

The company has a dedicated 
cybersecurity awareness team focused 
on educating employees on increasing 
threats – employing sophisticated test 
phishing emails, conducting annual 
cyber responsibility training, and creating 
seminars and video resources. All of this 
helps ensure that Duke Energy plays a 
leading role in the security of our nation’s 
grid and energy infrastructure.

64 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / GOVERNANCE

Statement Regarding Renewable Energy Certificates

Duke Energy’s subsidiary electric utilities generate 
power from solar, hydroelectric and biomass (including 
waste to energy) resources, but do not always retain the 
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) related to such 
generation. The RECs associated with such generation 
may be used to meet statutory or regulatory compliance 
obligations (on behalf of the respective electric utility and 
certain wholesale customers), assigned to customers 
pursuant to retail programs or sold/traded via bilateral 
commercial agreements. Duke Energy’s electric utilities 
also buy power through purchased power agreements 
(PPAs) from solar, wind, hydroelectric and biomass 
(including waste to energy) resources. Under certain 
PPAs for energy from such resources, the electric utilities 

purchase both the energy and the associated RECs. 
Under other PPAs, including some of those entered into 
pursuant to the electric utilities’ respective obligations 
under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 
(PURPA), Duke Energy does not purchase any RECs 
associated with the energy. Under PPAs entered into 
by Duke Energy’s electric utilities pursuant to certain 
retail customer programs, such utilities purchase RECs 
associated with the energy, but conveys the RECs to 
participating customers, or retires such RECs on the 
customers’ behalf. Duke Energy’s subsidiary Duke Energy 
Renewables sells the electricity and/or RECs it generates 
to its customers.

65 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 

Forward-Looking Information 

This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 . Forward-looking statements are based on management’s 
beliefs and assumptions and can often be identified by terms and phrases 
that include “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” 
“should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will,” “potential,” 
“forecast,” “target,” “guidance,” “outlook” or other similar terminology . Various 
factors may cause actual results to be materially different than the suggested 
outcomes within forward-looking statements; accordingly, there is no assurance 
that such results will be realized . These factors include, but are not limited to:

 ¡ The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic;
 ¡ State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including 

costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements, 
including those related to climate change, as well as rulings that affect 
cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures or 
market prices;

 ¡ The extent and timing of costs and liabilities to comply with federal and state 
laws, regulations and legal requirements related to coal ash remediation, 
including amounts for required closure of certain ash impoundments, are 
uncertain and difficult to estimate;

 ¡ The ability to recover eligible costs, including amounts associated with coal 
ash impoundment retirement obligations and costs related to significant 
weather events, and to earn an adequate return on investment through rate 
case proceedings and the regulatory process;

 ¡ The costs of decommissioning nuclear facilities could prove to be more 

extensive than amounts estimated and all costs may not be fully recoverable 
through the regulatory process;

 ¡ Costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, 

investigations and claims;

 ¡ Industrial, commercial and residential growth or decline in service territories 
or customer bases resulting from sustained downturns of the economy and 
the economic health of our service territories or variations in customer usage 
patterns, including energy efficiency efforts and use of alternative energy 
sources, such as self-generation and distributed generation technologies;
 ¡ Federal and state regulations, laws and other efforts designed to promote 

and expand the use of energy efficiency measures and distributed generation 
technologies, such as private solar and battery storage, in Duke Energy 
service territories could result in customers leaving the electric distribution 
system, excess generation resources as well as stranded costs;

 ¡ Advancements in technology;
 ¡ Additional competition in electric and natural gas markets and continued 

industry consolidation;

 ¡ Changing customer expectations and demands, including heightened 

emphasis on environmental, social and governance concerns;

 ¡ The influence of weather and other natural phenomena on operations, 

including the economic, operational and other effects of severe storms, 
hurricanes, droughts, earthquakes and tornadoes, including extreme weather 
associated with climate change;

 ¡ The ability to successfully operate electric generating facilities and 

deliver electricity to customers, including direct or indirect effects to the 
company resulting from an incident that affects the U .S . electric grid or 
generating resources;

 ¡ Operational interruptions to our natural gas distribution and 

transmission activities;

 ¡ The availability of adequate interstate pipeline transportation capacity and 

natural gas supply;

 ¡ The impact on facilities and business from a terrorist attack, cybersecurity 

threats, data security breaches, operational accidents, information 
technology failures or other catastrophic events, such as fires, explosions, 
pandemic health events or other similar occurrences;

 ¡ The inherent risks associated with the operation of nuclear facilities, 
including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks, 
including the financial stability of third-party service providers;

 ¡ The timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and interest rates 
and the ability to recover such costs through the regulatory process, 
where appropriate, and their impact on liquidity positions and the value of 
underlying assets;

 ¡ The results of financing efforts, including the ability to obtain financing on 
favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including credit 
ratings, interest rate fluctuations, compliance with debt covenants and 
conditions and general market and economic conditions;

 ¡ Credit ratings may be different from what is expected;
 ¡ Declines in the market prices of equity and fixed-income securities and 

resultant cash funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans, other 
post-retirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust funds;
 ¡ Construction and development risks associated with the completion of the 
company’s capital investment projects, including risks related to financing, 
obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction 
budgets and schedules and satisfying operating and environmental 
performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from 
customers in a timely manner, or at all;

 ¡ Changes in rules for regional transmission organizations, including changes 
in rate designs and new and evolving capacity markets, and risks related to 
obligations created by the default of other participants;
 ¡ The ability to control operation and maintenance costs;
 ¡ The level of creditworthiness of counterparties to transactions;
 ¡ The ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs;
 ¡ Employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and 

retain key personnel;

 ¡ The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions to Duke Energy 

Corporation holding company (the Parent);

 ¡ The performance of projects undertaken by our nonregulated businesses and 

the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; 

 ¡ The effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting 

standard-setting bodies;

 ¡ The impact of U .S . tax legislation to our financial condition, results of 

operations or cash flows and our credit ratings;

 ¡ The impacts from potential impairments of goodwill or equity method 

investment carrying values; and

 ¡ The ability to implement our business strategy, including enhancing existing 

technology systems .

Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in the company’s 
reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website at sec .gov . In 
light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the 
forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent 
or at a different time than described . Forward-looking statements speak only as 
of the date they are made and Duke Energy expressly disclaims an obligation to 
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of 
new information, future events or otherwise . 

66 | 2020 DUKE ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 

Non-GAAP Financial Information

Non-GAAP Measures 

Adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS)

Duke Energy’s 2020 Sustainability Report references adjusted EPS for the year-
to-date periods ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 of $5 .12, $5 .06 and 
$4 .72, respectively . 

The non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted EPS, represents basic EPS available 
to Duke Energy Corporation common stockholders (GAAP reported EPS), 
adjusted for the per share impact of special items . As discussed below, special 
items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes are 
not indicative of Duke Energy’s ongoing performance . Management believes 
the presentation of adjusted EPS provides useful information to investors, 
as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s 
performance across periods . Management uses this non-GAAP financial 
measure for planning and forecasting and for reporting financial results to 
the Duke Energy Board of Directors, employees, stockholders, analysts and 
investors . Adjusted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses . 
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted EPS is reported basic 
EPS available to Duke Energy Corporation common stockholders . 

Special items included in the periods presented include the following items, 
which management believes do not reflect ongoing costs:

 ¡ Gas Pipeline Investments represents costs related to the cancellation of the 

ACP pipeline and additional exit costs related to Constitution .

 ¡ Regulatory and Legislative Impacts in 2020 represents charges related to 

Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress coal combustion residuals 
settlement agreement and the partial settlements in the 2019 North Carolina 
rate cases . In 2018, the charges related to the Duke Energy Progress and 
Duke Energy Carolinas North Carolina rate case orders and the repeal of the 
South Carolina Base Load Review Act .

 ¡ Severance in 2020 represents the reversal of 2018 costs, which were 

deferred as a result of a partial settlement in the Duke Energy Carolinas 
and the Duke Energy Progress 2019 North Carolina rate cases . In 2018, 
severance charges relate to companywide initiatives, excluding merger 
integration, to standardize processes and systems, leverage technology 
and workforce optimization .

 ¡ Impairment Charges in 2019 represents a reduction of a prior year 

impairment at Citrus County CC and an other-than-temporary impairment 
(OTTI) on the remaining investment in Constitution . For 2018, it represents 
an impairment at Citrus County CC, a goodwill impairment at Commercial 
Renewables, and an OTTI of an investment in Constitution .
 ¡ Costs to Achieve Mergers represents charges that result from 

strategic acquisitions .

 ¡ Sale of Retired Plant represents the loss associated with selling Beckjord, a 

nonregulated generating facility in Ohio .

 ¡ Impacts of the Tax Act represents amounts recognized related to the Tax Act .

Duke Energy’s adjusted EPS may not be comparable to a similarly titled 
measure of another company because other entities may not calculate the 
measure in the same manner .

The following table presents a reconciliation of reported EPS to adjusted EPS for 
2020, 2019 and 2018:

(per share)

GAAP Reported Earnings/EPS

Adjustments to Reported:

  Gas Pipeline Investments

   Regulatory and Legislative Impacts

   Severance

  Impairment Charges

  Sale of Retired Plant

  Costs to Achieve Mergers

  Impacts of the Tax Act

  Discontinued Operations

Adjusted Diluted EPS

Adjusted EPS Guidance

Years Ended December 31,

2020

$1.72

2019

$5 .06

2018

$3 .76

2.32

1.19

   (0.10)

–

–

– 

– 

–

–

–

(0 .01)

–

–

–

–

0 .29

0 .21

0 .25

0 .12

0 .09

0 .03

(0.01)

$5.12

0 .01

$5 .06

(0 .03)

$4 .72

Duke Energy’s 2020 Sustainability Report references Duke Energy’s forecasted 
2021 adjusted EPS guidance range of $5 .00 to $5 .30 per share . The materials 
also reference a preliminary estimate of the 2021 adjusted EPS midpoint of 
approximately $5 .15 . In addition, the materials reference the long-term range 
of 5 to 7 percent through 2025 off the midpoint of 2021 adjusted EPS guidance 
range of $5 .15 . The forecasted adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure 
as it represents basic EPS available to Duke Energy Corporation common 
stockholders (GAAP reported EPS), adjusted for the per share impact of 
special items (as discussed under Adjusted EPS) . Due to the forward-looking 
nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information to 
reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not 
available at this time, as management is unable to project all special items for 
future periods, such as legal settlements, the impact of regulatory orders or 
asset impairments .

©2021 Duke Energy Corporation 193307 4/21

