R e d e f i n i n g     o u R   B o u n d a R i e s

2008|2009  sustainability Report

LEARNING ABOUT SAFETY STARTS EARLY
Tommy Nicoson, line specialist, talks about electric safety with one of our younger customers.

OUR MISSION
We make people’s lives better by providing gas and electric services in a  
sustainable way. This requires us to constantly look for ways to improve, to  
grow and to reduce our impact on the environment.

OUR VALUES
•	 Caring	–	We	look	out	for	each	other.	We	strive	to	make	the	environment	 

•	

and communities around us better places to live. 
Integrity	–	We	do	the	right	thing.	We	honor	our	commitments.	We	admit	 
when we’re wrong.

•	 Openness	–	We’re	open	to	change	and	to	new	ideas	from	our	co-workers,	
customers and other stakeholders. We explore ways to grow our business  
and make it better.

•	 Passion	–	We’re	passionate	about	what	we	do.	We	strive	for	excellence.	 

We take personal accountability for our actions.

•	 Respect	–	We	value	diverse	talents,	perspectives	and	experiences.	We	treat	 

others the way we want to be treated.
•	 Safety	–	We	put	safety	first	in	all	we	do.

CUSTOMER SERVICE – 24/7
Wendy Harvey, customer service representa-
tive, is one of many who respond to customers’ 
questions and concerns in our call centers 
around the clock.

SUSTAINABILITY DEFINED 
•	 The	Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Index	
defines	corporate	sustainability	as	 
“a business approach that creates  
long-term shareholder value by 
embracing opportunities and 
managing risks deriving from 
economic, environmental and  
social developments.”

•	 At	Duke	Energy,	sustainability	means	
doing business in a way that is good 
for	people,	the	planet	and	profits.

a B o u t   t h i s   R e p o R t

This 2008|2009 Sustainability Report 
is the third annual update we’ve 
produced. It builds on our previous 
reports and focuses on the issues that 
we and our stakeholders identify as 
most material: our efforts to reduce  
our environmental footprint, develop 
new technologies for a low-carbon 
future and operate as a sustainable, 
significant and substantial business.

Again this year, our 2008 Summary 
Annual Report and this 2008|2009 
Sustainability Report share a common 
theme: Redefining our Boundaries. 
I encourage you to read both publica-
tions to see the linkage between our 
sustainability and financial plans. 

This report has been organized as 
follows:
•  Jim Rogers’ letter to stakeholders 
highlights the most significant 
developments with our sustainability 
goals over the past year.    

•  Our sustainability plan and progress 
“at a glance” begins on page 12.
•  Summary environmental data are 

on pages 28 and 29.

•  The remainder of the report provides 
more updates organized by our five 
areas of focus.

•  A summary index to the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) indica-
tors is on page 45. A more detailed 
index to the GRI indicators can be 
found at www.duke-energy.com/
environment/sustainability.asp. 
Based on information in this report 
and on our Web site, we believe  
we meet GRI Guidelines Application 
Level B.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
About this Report 

Duke Energy Corporate Profile 

Letter from the Chairman 

Water and Energy 

Duke Energy’s Management  
Approach to Sustainability 

Duke Energy Sustainability  
Plan and Progress at a Glance 
Our plan focuses on those areas that 
are material from a sustainability risk 
and opportunity perspective.

1

2

4

9

11

12

Innovative Products and Services  16
Our customers want products and  
services that keep them competitive  
regionally and globally, yet respond to  
environmental concerns.

Environmental Footprint 
As an energy company, we have a large
impact on the environment and depend
on natural resources for much of our fuel. 

22

Quality Workforce 
Energy companies will be differentiated
by the quality, creativity and customer
focus of their employees.

30

Strong Communities 
Our success is linked to the health and 
prosperity of the communities we serve.

36

Governance and Transparency 
Creating shareholder value and earning  
the trust and confidence of our many  
stakeholders keeps us in business.

42

Global Reporting Initiative 

Independent Review 

45

46

RoBeRta Bowman
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND  
ChIEf SuSTAINABILITY OffICER

New in the 2008|2009 report:
•  To cross-reference information from 
last year’s Sustainability Report or  
offer additional context, we provide  
web links at www.duke-energy.com/sr.  
These topics are underlined in the 
hardcopy version of this report. 

•  Q&As with leaders from two stakeholder 
organizations, as well as Duke Energy’s 
executives in charge of smart grid, 
strategy and human resources.

•  An update on how we interpret sustain-
ability at Duke Energy – what we call 
our “sustainability filter” for actions  
and decisions.

In 2009, we will be updating our  
sustainability plan and measures to  
reflect input from stakeholders and our 
rapidly changing business environment. 

As always, I welcome your comments and 
feedback about this report. You can reach 
me at sustainability@duke-energy.com.

Roberta Bowman
Senior Vice President and
Chief Sustainability Officer
March 31, 2009

A B O U T   T H I S   R E P O R T

1

 
15%**

COMMERCIAL POWER

11%**

DuKE ENERGY 
INTERNATIONAL

*  forecasted 2009 adjusted segment 
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes 
(EBIT) contribution.

**Percent of forecasted adjusted total 

segment EBIT does not include results 
from the operations labeled as Other.

C o R p o R a t e   p R o f i l e

74%**

u.S. fRANChISED 
ELECTRIC AND GAS

2009 ADjUSTED 
SEGMENT EBIT*

U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS 
u.S. franchised Electric and Gas 
(uSfE&G) consists of Duke Energy’s 
regulated generation, electric and gas 
transmission and distribution systems.  
Its generation portfolio is a mix of fuel 
sources – coal, oil/natural gas, nuclear  
and hydroelectric. uSfE&G is Duke 
Energy’s largest business segment.

Electric Operations
•   Owns approximately 27,400 

megawatts of generating capacity
•	 Supplies electric service to approxi-

mately 4 million customers
•	 Serves territories in five states – 

North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, 
Indiana and Kentucky – that total 
about 48,000 square miles with an 
estimated population of 11 million

•	 Operates 150,900 miles of 

distribution lines and 20,900  
miles of transmission lines

Gas Operations
•	 Provides regulated transmission 

and distribution service to approxi-
mately 500,000 customers over a 
3,000-square-mile service territory  
in Ohio and Kentucky

COMMERCIAL POWER
Commercial Power owns, operates and 
manages power plants, primarily in the 
Midwest. Commercial Power also includes
Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), 
which develops, owns and operates gener-
ation sources (including wind assets) that 
serve large energy consumers, municipali-
ties, utilities and industrial facilities.
•  Owns and operates a balanced 

generation portfolio of approximately 
7,550 megawatts (excluding wind 
portfolio)

•   Approximately 4,000 megawatts 
are dedicated to serve regulated 
customers in Ohio

•   At the end of 2008, DEGS had nearly 
400 megawatts of wind energy in 
operation and more than 5,000 
megawatts of wind energy projects  
in the development pipeline

DUkE ENERGY INTERNATIONAL
Duke Energy International (DEI) operates 
and manages power generation facilities 
located in the Central and South American 
countries of Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador,  
El Salvador, Guatemala and Peru. DEI  
also owns equity investments in Saudi 
Arabia and Greece.
•   Owns, operates or has substantial 

interests in approximately 4,000 net 
megawatts of generation facilities
•   About 75 percent of DEI’s generating 
capacity is hydroelectric, and approxi-
mately 90 percent is either currently 
contracted or receives a system 
capacity payment

2

2008 | 2009 RECOGNITION

Duke Energy was again named 
to the Dow jones Sustainability 
Index for North American compa-
nies in the electric utility sector.

fortune magazine ranked Duke 
Energy among America’s Most 
Admired Companies.

Our sustainability efforts also 
earned us recognition by CRo 
(Corporate Responsibility Officer) 
magazine, which named us to its 
100 Best Corporate Citizens List 
for 2009.

plainfield, ind.

Cincinnati, ohio

Charlotte, n.C.

Corporate headquarters
u.s. franchised electric & gas area
major u.s. office location
duke energy international office location

C O R P O R A T E   P R O F I L E

3

l e t t e R   f R o m   t h e   C h a i R m a n

Jim RogeRs
ChAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO

Dear Stakeholders: 

In tough economic times, when every aspect of our 
business is under scrutiny, some might ask whether we 
can afford to focus on sustainability. To that I respond: 
Can we afford not to?

Sustainability – operating our business in a way that 
is good for people, the planet and profits – is, in my 
opinion, no longer optional. It is the strategic and 
decision-making approach we are following at Duke 
Energy to create long-term value.

4

Clearly, the current economic crisis colors 
every aspect of our business. We see 
several parallels from these economic 
problems that inform our approach to 
sustainability, including: 
•  The importance of living within our 
resources – whether financial or 
environmental;

•  The need to address complex issues 
and opportunities simultaneously –  
not sequentially;

•  The value of balanced decisions 

that consider economic, social and 
environmental consequences; and
•  The imperative of financial strength 
to remain a viable, vital corporation.

At Duke Energy, sustainability describes 
the way we work; it is a competency 
that leads to improved risk management, 
efficiency and innovation for today’s 
complex, resource-constrained and 
connected world.

REDEFINING OUR BOUNDARIES   
history tells us there are moments in  
time when conventional wisdom becomes 
unwise and “the way we’ve always  
done it” blinds us to new possibilities. 
With fundamental change happening 
everywhere – politically, economically, 
environmentally and socially – I think  
we are in the midst of one of those  
historic moments now.  

Our experience with sustainability 
strengthens my belief that our nation’s 
energy, economic and environmental 
challenges can and must be solved 
together. With energy as a cornerstone 
of economic recovery, we can provide 
solutions that do double- or triple-duty – 
investing in innovations and infrastruc-
ture that address not just one issue, but 
several. In this report, we share some 
examples of this approach – including 
the smart grid and other advanced energy 
technologies.

 
History tells us there are moments in time when 
conventional wisdom becomes unwise and “the way 
we’ve always done it” blinds us to new possibilities.

Our 2008 Summary Annual Report 
and 2008|2009 Sustainability Report 
again share a common theme: Redefining 
our Boundaries. The theme captures 
our efforts to fundamentally rethink our 
business, explore new technologies and 
help solve some of the world’s most 
pressing problems.  

DUkE ENERGY’S  
SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
Seeing the world through the lens of 
sustainability helps redefine our bound-
aries. Conversations with you – our  
valued stakeholders – have identified  
the most material sustainability risks  
and opportunities we face. Our plan  
has five focus areas: 
•  Provide innovative products and 

services for a carbon-constrained, 
competitive world

•  Reduce our environmental footprint
•  Attract and retain a diverse, 
high-quality workforce

•  help build strong communities 
•  Be profitable and demonstrate strong 

governance and transparency

On the following pages, we provide an 
update on our progress and challenges.

YEAR IN REVIEW
Global climate change continues to be a 
defining issue for our company and our 
world. As one of the largest emitters of 
carbon dioxide (CO2) in the u.S., we take 
the challenge of reducing greenhouse 
gases very seriously.

In last year’s report, Building Bridges 
to a Low-Carbon Future, we reviewed 
our actions to address climate change by:
•  helping our customers and 

communities become the most  
energy efficient in the world; 
•  Decarbonizing our fleet; and 
•  Advocating fair and effective 

climate legislation.

We also shared our aspiration to cut our 
2006 u.S. CO2 emissions in half by 2030 
and the scenarios that emerged from 
that work. We’ve continued to refine that 
analysis based on stakeholder input and 
the signposts we see in this very volatile 
economy. What’s clear is that reducing 
CO2 won’t be cheap or easy, and progress 
may not be linear year-to-year. On page 
24, Doug Esamann, senior vice president 
of strategy and planning, provides an 
update on the 2030 analysis.

Improving Energy Efficiency 
We view energy efficiency as the “fifth  
fuel” to power a low-carbon future, but 
it should be the “first fuel” we invest in. 
That’s why we consider the save-a-watt 
energy efficiency plan a foundation of  
our business and regulatory model for  
the 21st century.

Most utilities still operate under rules 
created decades ago, when our primary 
task was to build generating plants and 
distribution systems to electrify the u.S. 
economy. utilities were rewarded for 
investing in new power plants and related 
equipment – a regulatory approach that 
worked remarkably well. Of course, the 
world has changed a lot since then and  
so, too, must our regulatory model.

under our proposed save-a-watt model, 
the bias to invest in power plants over 
energy efficiency is removed by allowing 
utilities to earn a return on their invest-
ments in energy efficiency based on their 
“avoided costs.”  

I am pleased to report that in December 
2008, the Public utilities Commission 
of Ohio was the first of our five state 
commissions to approve save-a-watt, 
helping to create a level playing field for 
energy efficiency and investing in new 
plants. Regulatory review of save-a-watt 
in Indiana and Kentucky is pending as I 

write this letter. We’ve got more work to 
do in the Carolinas. In early 2009, South 
Carolina regulators rejected our initial 
save-a-watt proposal but asked us to 
return quickly with an alternative program. 
North Carolina regulators approved our 
proposed efficiency programs but asked 
for additional detail on the avoided cost 
model. We intend to respond quickly to 
gain approval of save-a-watt in these 
states as soon as possible.

I feel a sense of urgency in implementing 
save-a-watt for two reasons:
•  Energy efficiency savings are “perish-
able.” Buildings under construction 
today will stand for a half a century 
or more and should be built to the 
highest efficiency standards. The 
same applies to existing structures: 
Less-efficient design and equipment 
results in wasted electricity and related 
CO2 emissions, as well as higher cost. 
Delays in implementing energy-saving 
programs like save-a-watt translate to 
lost opportunities to harvest efficiency 
improvements.

•  Our industry is facing a period of 

rising costs as we build more efficient 
power plants. Programs like save-a-
watt put more control in the hands of 
our customers to better manage and 
reduce their bills.     

Smart Grid
To fully realize the potential of energy 
efficiency, we are planning to invest nearly 
$1 billion over the next five years in smart 
grid technology, subject to regulatory 
approvals. By replacing analog switches, 
meters and controls with new digital, 
two-way devices, we bring intelligence  
and interactivity to electricity. In the  
near-term, that means our customers  
will have more information and control 
over their energy use. And, Duke Energy 
will have more precise, real-time data  
to help optimize our system. 

L E T T E R   F R O M   T H E   C H A I R M A N

5

 
Another	legislative	issue	with	far-reaching	implications	for	our	company	
and	customers	is	climate	change.	I	believe	we	need	to	regulate	CO2 and 
other greenhouse gases, and we need to do it now.

Smart grid technology represents the 
most significant upgrade to our distribu-
tion system since electricity was first 
harnessed, and we think it will lead to 
capabilities and functions that are unimag-
inable today. By mid-2009, we will have 
installed more than 70,000 smart electric 
meters in three states and about 40,000 
digital gas meters in the Midwest. While 
we’re excited about the pace of our smart 
grid deployment, the federal stimulus plan 
may give us opportunities to accelerate 
that deployment. We’re working hard to 
make that happen so that our customers 
can be among the first in the nation to  
use smart grid technology.

We recently opened Envision Centers in 
Kentucky and North Carolina to demon-
strate the potential and promise of smart 
grid technology to our regulators, legisla-
tors and other stakeholders. We are also 
field-testing some of these new technolo-
gies at a subdivision in Charlotte, N.C.

Decarbonizing our Fleet
To meet existing and anticipated renewable 
portfolio standards (RPS), we took aggres-
sive actions in 2008 to build that aspect  
of our business.

Our utilities issued requests for proposals 
for renewable energy, announced several 
contracts, and saw some projects from 
earlier contracts begin generating power. 
for example, a 20-year contract with a 
new wind farm in northern Indiana began 
supplying up to 100 megawatts (MW) of 
electricity to our customers in 2008. We 
signed a long-term agreement to buy all 
of the output from a photovoltaic solar 
energy farm in North Carolina that will 
be among the largest in the country. And, 
we have agreed to purchase power from 
two projects in the Carolinas that convert 
landfill methane gas to electricity. We also 
developed an innovative plan to install 

photovoltaic solar panels on the rooftops 
and land of up to 400 Duke Energy 
residential and business customers in 
North Carolina. This proposal, currently 
being discussed with state utility regula-
tors, would create a solar distributed 
generation network capable of supplying 
about 1,300 homes.

Our commercial business acquired 
wind-developer Catamount Energy in 
September 2008 and completed wind 
farms in Wyoming and Texas. We are also 
a co-owner of the Sweetwater project in 
Texas – one of the largest wind farms in 
the world. Wal-Mart agreed to purchase 
electricity from our Notrees wind farm in 
Texas to power some of its facilities in the 
state. At year-end 2008, we had close to 
400 MW of wind power in operation and  
a wind development pipeline of more  
than 5,000 MW in 14 states.

Part of the challenge with renewables is 
getting the power from the source to the 
customer. We announced a joint venture 
with American Electric Power in mid-2008 
to build and operate a 240-mile high 
voltage transmission line in Indiana that 
will link new and existing generation with 
customers and help reduce transmission 
congestion in the Midwest.

In September 2008, we formed ADAGE, 
a joint venture between Duke Energy  
and AREVA. ADAGE will build biomass 
power plants in the u.S. that generate 
electricity from wood waste. ADAGE  
plans to start construction on its first 
biopower plant in 2010.

when the sun shines and the wind blows – 
they are considered “intermittent” sources 
of electricity. Baseload plants fueled by 
coal and nuclear power are typically the 
lowest-cost power plants that operate 
around the clock.  

I have acknowledged in past reports the 
apparent paradox of advocating climate 
change legislation while building new 
coal plants. About 70 percent of our u.S. 
customers’ electricity was generated with 
coal in 2008, compared to approximately 
50 percent nationally. We simply cannot 
meet our obligation to serve customers 
with affordable, reliable and increasingly 
clean electricity without coal in our fuel 
mix. As a bridge to new technologies and 
a lower-carbon future, we are investing 
approximately $5 billion in two such 
plants – Edwardsport and Cliffside – that 
will replace older, less efficient coal units.

In Indiana, the 630-MW Edwardsport 
integrated gasification combined cycle 
(IGCC) plant was approximately 20 
percent complete at the end of 2008. 
The plant is designed to convert coal 
into a synthetic gas that produces power. 
When Edwardsport begins operating 
in 2012, it will emit less sulfur dioxide 
(SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particu-
lates than the standard coal-fired plant it 
replaces – while providing more than 10 
times the power. And, with the favorable 
geology in the region, we are working to 
demonstrate carbon capture and seques-
tration at Edwardsport – what could be a 
breakthrough technology for a low-carbon 
future.

In last year’s report, we showed the pros 
and cons of different generating sources to 
illustrate the importance of fuel diversity. 
Renewable energy will play a growing part 
in our supply portfolio. But, because solar 
power and wind generation operate only 

Our Cliffside modernization project in 
North Carolina – including the construction 
of a new 825-MW advanced coal unit – 
was about 30 percent complete at the end 
of 2008. Construction began following 
receipt of all applicable state permits. 

6

While the plant’s air permit was subse-
quently challenged, construction remains 
on schedule as we address the legal 
issues. In March 2009, the North Carolina 
Division of Air Quality (DAQ) determined 
that the new unit is a “minor source” of 
hazardous air pollutants, confirming that 
the plant will have among the strictest, 
most effective air-emission controls avail-
able. Once Cliffside unit 6 is completed 
in 2012, the plant will eventually replace 
approximately 1,000 MW of older, higher-
emitting coal units. We will take additional 
actions to make Cliffside unit 6 “carbon 
neutral” by 2018.

We are also adding fuel diversity by 
building two lower-emitting 620-MW 
combined cycle natural gas plants at 
existing sites in North Carolina. Once  
in service, the new plants will displace 
about 250 MW of older coal-fired units,  
as part of the 1,000 MW of higher-
emitting coal units we agreed to retire  
with the Cliffside modernization.

I’ve often said if you’re serious about 
climate change, you need to be serious 
about nuclear power. Duke Energy has  
a track record of safe and efficient nuclear 
operations at our Oconee, McGuire and 
Catawba stations. We continue to preserve 
our options to develop a new 2,234-MW 
nuclear power plant, the William States 
Lee III Nuclear Station, in Cherokee 
County, S.C. While a decision to build  
a new nuclear station is still in the future, 
we have submitted an application to the 
u.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission for 
a combined construction and operating 
license.

Beyond the plants and programs that 
are key to a low-carbon future – energy 
efficiency, gas, nuclear and cleaner coal – 
we are also working hard to improve the 
efficiency of our existing fleet. Today, we 

are the third largest generator of electricity 
among the top 20 u.S. investor-owned 
utilities. Not surprisingly, we are also the 
third largest emitter of tons of CO2 in this 
group. Another important measure is 
carbon intensity – the amount of CO2 by 
weight emitted per unit of energy. Based 
on the latest available 2007 data, eight 
other companies had carbon intensi-
ties higher than Duke Energy. As we add 
cleaner, more efficient power plants in the 
years ahead, carbon intensity will be a 
good way to judge our progress in decar-
bonizing our generation fleet. 

We have also focused on reducing air 
emissions and other waste streams from 
our plants. We are nearing completion 
of a 10-year, approximately $5 billion 
investment in scrubbers and selective 
catalytic reduction units at our coal plants 
to lower NOx, SO2 and mercury emissions. 
Comparing 2008 emissions at the plants 
we operate to 2006, we reduced the  
NOx emissions rate by approximately  
18 percent and the SO2 emissions rate 
by approximately 50 percent.

Legislative Issues
Later in this report, we mention a number 
of legislative and regulatory issues that 
could affect our use of coal. future 
regulations for coal ash ponds. Tighter 
sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides limits. 
New requirements to reduce mercury 
emissions. The long-pending New Source 
Review case. Concerns about mountaintop 
removal of coal. All of these issues are 
important, and represent what I call 
“stroke of the pen” risks.

Another legislative issue with far-reaching 
implications for our company and 
customers is climate change. I believe  
we need to regulate CO2 and other 
greenhouse gases, and we need to do 
it now. We support a cap-and-trade 

system that applies to all segments of the 
economy. By putting a price on carbon, 
companies and consumers alike will be 
able to make more informed investment 
decisions. We also believe we need to act 
with urgency – not panic – and develop a 
policy approach that first slows the growth 
of emissions, then stops the growth and 
transitions to a declining emissions cap. 
We are advocating legislation that is fair 
to consumers in all states, that provides 
funding for investments in technologies 
that will help solve the problem of climate 
change, and that includes adequate  
cost-containment measures to protect  
our economy.

Duke Energy is one of the founding 
members of the u.S. Climate Action 
Partnership (uSCAP) – a group of corpora-
tions and non-government organizations 
committed to legislative action on climate 
change. uSCAP worked for two years to 
create its “Blueprint for Legislative Action,” 
a plan that I believe is both workable and 
fair. It protects consumers by smoothing 
out the energy price increases that will 
result from capping carbon emissions.  
In January 2009, I joined some of  
my uSCAP peers in testifying before 
Congress on these priorities for climate 
change legislation. 

Water and Energy 
The discipline of sustainability trains us to 
look upstream, downstream and around 
corners. It also helps us see the connec-
tions between issues. As part of my work 
with the World Economic forum this year, 
we published a report on the nexus of 
energy and water. We’ve included some 
key points from that report on page 9.  

unlike climate change – a global issue  
that demands global solutions – water 
issues are inherently local. Planning 
energy and water use in tandem will 

L E T T E R   F R O M   T H E   C H A I R M A N

7

become the standard as companies and 
communities manage increasing demands 
on limited water supplies.

grant of $800,000 to energy assistance 
funds that serve low-income residents  
in our service areas.

approximately $4.5 billion in fixed-rate 
debt at a weighted-average rate of  
6.05 percent.

Employee Safety and Development
We share a number of measures of 
employee engagement and satisfaction 
later in this report, but none is more 
personal or meaningful than safety.  

I am pleased to report that our safety 
performance in 2008 was our best ever. 
Despite the record-setting storms that 
hit our service area last year, despite the 
special challenges of large construction 
projects, and despite the distractions of 
this unsettling economy, we completed 
2008 with fewer serious injuries than 
2007 and no work-related employee or 
contractor fatalities. On page 30, you’ll 
read about some of the ways we made 
safety personal within our company  
in 2008.

Talent is often the key differentiator 
between companies, and this is never 
more true than in turbulent times. In 
2008, we continued to develop our 
employees with customized training,  
cross-functional assignments and job 
rotations. Since January 2008, approxi-
mately 40 percent of our top 55 leaders 
have moved to new or expanded roles.

Helping our Customers and Communities
The aftershocks from the economic  
crisis are being felt by our customers,  
our communities and our states. We 
continued to support nonprofits in the 
communities we serve with contributions, 
volunteerism and creative partnerships. 
Total contributions from the company, The 
Duke Energy foundation, our employees 
and retirees exceeded $30 million in 
2008. Additionally, in January 2009,  
our foundation made an emergency  

We are also partnering with state and 
local agencies and economic development 
officials to support economic recovery. If 
history is any indication, recessions are 
typically followed by a rebound in demand 
for electricity. We are convinced that 
investing in energy infrastructure can help 
rebuild our economy – achieving the triple 
goals of putting people to work, reducing 
environmental impacts and increasing 
energy security.

Financial Performance
In 2008, we reported adjusted diluted 
earnings of $1.21 per share, below our 
employee incentive target of $1.27 per 
share. Our total shareholder return was 
down 21.7 percent for the year, but we 
still outperformed the overall markets – the 
S&P 500 declined 37.0 percent and the 
Philadelphia utility Index declined 27.2 
percent. 2008 was also the 82nd consec-
utive year that we’ve paid a quarterly cash 
dividend on Duke Energy common stock.

We took a number of actions to control 
costs, including reducing capital spending.  
And, as we made tough choices, we drew 
on sustainability principles. for example, 
for 2009, we reduced labor costs not 
through layoffs but by freezing base pay  
for our professional workforce. 

Electric utilities are among the most 
capital-intensive of all industries. At  
Duke Energy, we have the potential to 
invest nearly $25 billion over the next 
five years to modernize and grow our 
businesses. Even in this “frozen” credit 
market, the strength of our balance sheet 
gave us access to capital. from Jan. 
1, 2008, to Jan. 31, 2009, we issued 

The Grandchildren’s Test
Over the past year, we’ve seen increased 
interest in sustainability as more and more 
stakeholders view it as a proxy for quality 
management.   

for the third consecutive year, we 
were recognized on the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index for North America. 
We were also pleased to be named one 
of fortune’s Most Admired Companies, 
among the 100 Best Corporate Citizens 
and one of the World’s Most Ethical 
Companies. While these distinctions are 
nice, they don’t compare to the tough 
criteria I call “the grandchildren’s test.” 
Quite simply, what type of world do I leave 
for my grandchildren and for yours? how 
will future generations judge the actions 
we take today? 

Times like these – of unprecedented 
change and uncharted waters – test our 
leadership and our creativity. They also 
test our courage and our conscience.

Sustainability lies at the heart of the  
grandchildren’s test and underpins our 
corporate values.

I invite your feedback on our sustainability 
plans and progress. Your comments help 
us improve our business and redefine our 
boundaries. 

Sincerely, 

Jim Rogers
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer
March 31, 2009

8

w a t e R   a n d   e n e R g y

united states wateR withdRawal Vs. Consumption

water withdrawal
340.7 billion gallons/day

water Consumption
100 billion gallons/day

39%

41%

8% 12%

4%

3%

8%

85%

 Thermal Electric Power

 Irrigation & Livestock

 Domestic & Commercial

 Industrial & Mining

Source: united States 
Geological Survey, 
Cambridge Energy  
Research Associates

Adapted from “Thirsty Energy: Water and 
Energy in the 21st Century,” released in 
February 2009 by the World Economic 
Forum in partnership with Cambridge 
Energy Research Associates

Since the first water wheel was used in the 
Middle Ages to provide energy, water and 
energy have been inextricably linked. The 
relationship between water and energy has 
taken on new importance as the number 
of regions with scarce water supplies has 
increased.

Although water covers nearly three-
quarters of the earth, most is undrinkable 
seawater. Less than 3 percent is fresh 
water, and only a fraction of that is  
available for human use; the rest is  
locked in ice caps and glaciers.

Over the last 100 years, global consump-
tion of fresh water has grown at more  
than twice the rate of the world’s  
population growth. Pressure on limited 
fresh water resources is mounting due  
to increasing population, economic  
growth and pollution.

Water use is differentiated by water 
withdrawn and water consumed:
•  Water withdrawn is the total volume 
removed from a water source such as 
a lake or river. Often, a portion of this 
water is returned to the source and is 
available to be used again.

•  Water consumed is the amount of 
water removed for use and not  
returned to its source.

The pie charts above compare water 
withdrawal and consumption by industry 
segments in the u.S. Agriculture is the 
largest consumer of water. Electric power 
plants account for nearly 40 percent of 
water withdrawal, but consume only a 
fraction of that amount. however, water 
withdrawal data are important, since water 
availability can impact operations and 
siting new power plants.

Thermal electric power plants, including 
coal, natural gas, oil and nuclear, 
represent nearly 80 percent of electric 
generation capacity worldwide. All thermal 
electric plants that use steam turbines 
require cooling to condense the steam 
when it exits the turbine, and water is by 
far the most common source of cooling.

WATER TRADE-OFFS 
The type and design of power plants  
affect the volume of water withdrawn  
and consumed. Two primary types of 
water-based cooling systems are used  
in thermal electric power plants:
•  Once-through cooling systems 

withdraw large quantities of water,  
but return most of it to the source.  
The primary concern with this design 
is the potential harm to aquatic life 
near the plant, which can be caused 
by the mechanisms used to withdraw 
the water, and the higher temperature 
of water returned to the source.

•  Closed-loop systems recirculate cooling 
water and remove excess heat through 
a cooling tower or pond. Although 
closed-loop systems withdraw less 
water than once-through systems,  
they consume more through higher 
evaporation rates.

Other plant systems, including environ-
mental controls, can also affect water 
consumption. for example, adding scrub-
bers on coal plants to reduce air emissions 
increases water consumption, as will 
carbon capture and storage technology. 
hybrid systems to reduce water use 
are in different phases of research and 
development.

Water is becoming a strategic issue  
for the electric industry. Electric utilities 
are turning to renewable energy, energy 
efficiency and new technologies – such 
as integrated gasification combined cycle 
(IGCC) coal plants – to diversify their 
energy supply, and these technologies 
also help decrease water consumption. 
The industry is continuously looking for 
ways to more effectively use existing water 
resources and to create supplemental 
water storage.

A key conclusion from Thirsty Energy: 
Water and energy should be managed  
on an integrated basis. And, unlike issues 
such as climate change that require global 
solutions, water must be addressed region-
ally and locally.

W A T E R   A N D   E N E R G Y

9

INTEGRATED PLANNING AND WATER 
MANAGEMENT IN THE CAROLINAS
In the Carolinas, the power plants on the 
Catawba-Wateree river system and the 
Keowee-Toxaway complex were planned 
using an integrated model for water use 
and energy production. The rivers and 
reservoirs serve as the backbone of our 
generation fleet by providing renewable 
hydropower and cooling water for our  
fossil and nuclear plants. At the same 
time, many of the reservoirs also supply 
public water systems and industrial 
process water. 

The Keowee-Toxaway complex includes 
Oconee Nuclear Station and the Keowee, 
Jocassee and Bad Creek hydroelectric 
stations. Jocassee and Bad Creek are 
pumped-storage hydroelectric stations 
that use the same water over and over 
again, making more efficient use of water 
resources. Both plants use two reservoirs 
to generate electricity: an upper reservoir 
and a lower reservoir. Water stored in 
the upper reservoir is released to spin 
turbines at the base of the dam to generate 
electricity. The water then flows into the 
lower reservoir. During off-peak hours, 
power is used to reverse the turbines and 
pump water from the lower reservoir to the 
upper reservoir for storage until later use.  

Population growth, industry and signifi-
cant declines in rainfall have strained 
the Carolinas’ water supplies in recent 
years. Duke Energy continues to work 
with government, community and private 
sector partners to help manage this critical 
resource. for example:

10

jOCASSEE HYDROELECTRIC STATION
The four-unit Jocassee hydroelectric Station, part of the Keowee-Toxaway complex, is a 
610-megawatt pumped-storage generating plant located in Pickens County, South Carolina.

•  The Drought Management Advisory 
Group, formed as a result of our 
Comprehensive Relicensing Agreement 
for the Catawba-Wateree hydroelectric 
Project, continued to manage the 
response to fluctuating water supply 
levels in the Carolinas in 2008. The 
group – comprised of Duke Energy, 
other large water users and several 
state environmental, geological and 
natural resource agencies – spearheads 
efforts to reduce water consumption 
during periods of drought in the river 
system.

•  We also continue to collaborate 
with the Catawba-Wateree Water 
Management Group, a first-of-its-kind 
nonprofit corporation formed by Duke 
Energy and 17 public water system 
owners along the Catawba. Members 
are working on a variety of projects 
as part of a five-year strategic plan to 
address long-term supply and demand 
issues. for example, a “smart” irriga-
tion pilot program will explore the use 
of new technology to better manage 
lawn watering systems of customers 
living on company-operated reservoirs.

d u k e   e n e R g y ’ s

m a n a g e m e n t   a p p R o a C h   t o   s u s t a i n a B i l i t y

Roles and ResponsiBilities
Chief Executive Officer
ultimate responsibility for the company’s sustainability strategy and  
long-term success

Chief Sustainability Officer
Develops and implements the company’s sustainability strategy and plan

Operating and Functional Executives and Management 
Accountable for applicable sustainability goals and developing  
departmental plans to achieve them

Employees
Implement departmental sustainability plans and identify local sustain-
ability opportunities

plans and initiatiVes
Duke Energy Sustainability Plan
•  Developed based on internal and external inputs
•  Comprised of goals and measures
•  Accountable executive for each goal
•  Annual update via the Sustainability Report

Departmental Planning
Includes initiatives to support corporate sustainability goals
• 
•  Also includes goals and initiatives addressing each department’s 

biggest sustainability challenges and opportunities

•  May be integrated into business and strategic plans rather than a 

stand-alone plan

Employee Plans
•  Personal sustainability practices to improve sustainability on and 

off the job

•  Local sustainability goals may be integrated into annual 

performance management plans

Building sustainaBility knowledge
•		 Online tools and resources 

•	 Communications 

•		 Workshops 

•	 Best-practice sharing 

•		 Recognition

t h e   d u k e   e n e R g y   s u s t a i n a B i l i t y   f i l t e R ©

We’ve begun employee training and education on sustainability to encourage innovation and resource efficiency. We created this “filter” to help 
employees translate the concept of sustainability into their everyday work and decisions.

ConneCtion
understanding the big picture and the  
interrelationships between issues

effiCienCy
using resources as efficiently as possible to  
save money and respect our planet’s limits

BalanCe
Developing solutions that effectively  
address competing interests

gRandChildRen
Anticipating how future generations will  
view the actions we take (or don’t take) today

•		 have we considered the financial, environmental and social impacts 

of this action/decision? 

•		 have we taken potential changes in the external environment, such 

as new regulations, into account? 

•		 have we considered this action/decision in light of our key stake-

holders’ expectations and priorities? have we looked for the connec-
tions between issues?

•		 have we examined it from a life cycle/value chain perspective? 

•		 Does this action/decision help us reduce our use of resources – 

materials, energy, water, etc.? What about our suppliers? Customers?
•		 Does it help us improve our performance on the 3Rs of solid waste 

(reduce, reuse, recycle)? What about suppliers? Customers?
•		 Does this action/decision provide us an opportunity to profit from 

what we might otherwise throw away?

•		 Does this action/decision balance our stakeholders’ competing 

priorities?

•		 Does this action/decision balance “people, planet and profits?” Can 

we develop a win-win-win solution? 

•		 Does it balance short-term and long-term needs?
•		 have we evaluated purchases and performance of suppliers against 

these same questions?

•		 have we looked at this action/decision through the eyes of future 

generations?

•		 Will it stand the test of time?  
•		 Will this action/decision contribute to long-term shareholder value?
•		 Will it benefit, or at least not harm, society and the environment? 

D U k E   E N E R G Y ’ S   M A N A G E M E N T   A P P R O A C H   T O   S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y

11

d u k e   e n e R g y   s u s t a i n a B i l i t y   p l a n   a n d   p R o g R e s s

1

This sustainability plan reflects  
Duke Energy’s commitment to operate 
in a way that is good for people, the 
planet and profits. The plan expands 
on the company’s business strategy 
and values, and focuses on the areas 
that are most material from a corpo-
rate sustainability perspective.

The plan was initially developed 
in 2007 as a five-year plan and is 
refined each year. unless otherwise 
noted, the goals were to be achieved 
by 2012. The progress we have made 
in achieving these goals is summa-
rized here. More information on our 
progress can be found in the following 
pages of this Sustainability Report. 

In 2009, we will be updating our 
sustainability plan and measures 
to reflect stakeholder input and 
our rapidly changing business 
environment.

INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Provide innovative products and services in a carbon-constrained, competitive world

Why it matters: Our customers want products and services that keep them competitive, 
yet respond to environmental concerns.

goal

pRogRess

  Champion energy efficiency as a top 
industry issue and collaborate with 
regulators, customers and other key 
stakeholders to advance innovative 
policies and programs

  Aggressively pursue “smarter grid and 
meter” technologies that can deliver 
significant operational and customer 
benefits

  Expand green power options to customers 

in every state we in which operate

  Keep rates competitive

  Achieve top-quartile customer  

satisfaction in all markets as measured  
by benchmark surveys

The save-a-watt model was approved by Ohio regulators in late 
2008. In early 2009, S.C. regulators rejected save-a-watt but 
asked us to return quickly with a revised plan. N.C. regulators 
approved our proposed energy efficiency programs but asked for 
additional detail on the avoided cost model. Regulatory decisions 
are pending in Indiana and Kentucky.

We continue to deploy equipment for testing and design 
purposes. Ohio regulators approved our plan to move forward 
with smart grid implementation. Planning is underway for our 
four other states. We are also working to encourage and prepare 
for broader use of plug-in electric vehicles.  

We provide green power programs in each of our five states 
except Kentucky, where a program is planned for 2009. Carbon 
offset programs are available in the Carolinas and planned for 
Indiana and Ohio in 2009. Customer participation in these 
programs is currently less than 1%.

Average retail electric rates in each of our five states were below 
national averages in 2008. In Indiana and the Carolinas, our 
rates were below state averages.

While Duke Energy ranks in the top quartile in some markets, 
we are not top-quartile in all markets.

PROGRESS kEY

  Achieved or On Track

  Currently Not On Track

  Year-end Goal Not Achieved

12

a t   a   g l a n C e

2

ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Reduce our environmental footprint

Why it matters: As an energy company, we have a large impact on the environment and depend on natural resources for much of our fuel.

goal

pRogRess

goal

pRogRess

Diversify our fuel mix and address the climate change issue by:

  Promoting u.S. federal 

policy mandating economy-
wide reductions of green-
house gas emissions

  Creating the option to build 
new nuclear (carbon-free) 
generation

  Piloting clean coal technolo-

gies, e.g., integrated 
gasification combined cycle 
(IGCC) technology, CO2 
capture and sequestration

  Securing cost-effective 
sources of renewable 
energy

  Reducing, avoiding and/or 
sequestering at least  
10 million tons of CO2 
equivalents between  
2007 and 2015

We continue to collaborate with key stake-
holders and testify before Congress to advance 
sound climate change legislation.

Our construction and operating license applica-
tion for the William States Lee III Nuclear 
Station in S.C. was accepted for review by the 
u.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 2008.

Construction of our IGCC Edwardsport power 
plant in Indiana is under way. We are studying 
the potential to securely store CO2 underground 
at the site. Our participation in three u.S. 
Department of Energy regional sequestration 
partnerships also continues. 

At year-end 2008, we had over 5,000 MW of 
wind energy under potential development in 
14 states and close to 400 MW of operating 
assets. We have entered into an agreement 
to purchase the output of a large photovoltaic 
solar farm to be built in N.C. and launched 
ADAGE, a joint-venture with AREVA to develop 
biomass power.

Projects implemented in 2007 and 2008 have 
avoided an estimated 712,000 tons of C02 
emissions through the end of 2008. future 
years’ avoided emissions from these and other 
projects will be quantified annually and applied 
toward the goal. Work also continues on the 
2030 aspiration to identify possible actions to 
cut our 2006 u.S. CO2 emissions in half by 
2030.

Continue to focus on safe, reliable and efficient power plant operations by 
achieving:

  A nuclear capacity factor  

of 92.36% in 2008

Year-end performance was 91.50%, just 
under the year-end target, due to refueling 
outages exceeding their schedules. 

  Regulated fossil commercial 

availability of 85.11% in 2008

Year-end performance was 85.30%, 
slightly higher than the year-end target.

  Non-regulated fossil (Midwest 
only) commercial availability  
of 86.32% in 2008

Year-end performance was 81.58%, lower 
than the year-end target, primarily due to 
three extraordinary forced outages. 

Continue and expand our efforts to improve air quality by:

  Reducing nitrogen oxides 

(NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) 
emission rates of the coal-fired 
power plants we operate 10% 
and 35%, respectively, in 2008 
compared to 2006

  Reducing NOx, volatile organic 
compounds (VOC), particu-
late matter (PM) and carbon 
monoxide (CO) emissions from 
our on-road and non-road vehicle 
fleet 35% by 2012 compared 
to 2006

  Continuing to replace older 
natural gas lines, thereby 
reducing the leaks repaired 20% 
by 2012 compared to 2007

  Increasing employee participa-
tion in our transit subsidy and 
telecommuting programs

The NOx emission rate was 18% lower 
and the SO2 emission rate was 50% lower 
in 2008 compared to 2006. 

We finalized our methodology to calculate 
vehicle fleet emissions and compiled 
2006 through 2008 data. We also added 
more fuel-efficient models to our fleet and 
pursued alternative fuel opportunities.

Due to our continuing work to replace 
older natural gas lines, the number of 
leaks repaired was 6% less in 2008 
compared to 2007. We are on track to 
meet the 20% reduction goal by 2012.

Participation in the Charlotte transit 
subsidy nearly doubled to 1,100 while 
participation in the Cincinnati transit 
subsidy remained stable. Participation in 
the @Work telecommuting program grew 
by 65 to 209 at year-end 2008.

[Environmental footprint continued on page 14]

D U k E   E N E R G Y ’ S   S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y   P L A N   A N D   P R O G R E S S

13

3

ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT

[Continued from page 13]

QUALITY WORkFORCE
Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality workforce

Why it matters: Energy companies will be differentiated by 
the quality, creativity and customer focus of their employees.

goal

pRogRess

goal

pRogRess

  Reduce electricity consumption 

at our 13 largest commer-
cial buildings 10% by 2012 
compared to the 2005-2007 
average

We evaluated energy (and water) use 
at our 13 largest commercial buildings 
in 2008 to identify economically viable 
projects. These projects will be imple-
mented over the next 2-3 years in order  
to meet or exceed the 10% reduction  
goal by 2012.

Minimize the amount of waste requiring disposal by:

  Reducing the amount of 

low-level radioactive waste 
(Class B and C) generated at 
our nuclear power plants 25% 
by 2012 compared to the 
2002-2005 average

Increasing the beneficial use 
of coal combustion products 
(excluding structural fills) 10% 
by 2012 compared to 2007

  Measuring solid waste and 

recycling streams in 2008 to 
establish baseline data for goal-
setting purposes

We generated 1,303 cubic feet of 
low-level radioactive waste (Class B and 
C) in 2008, lower than the year-end goal 
of 1,420 cubic feet. We are on track to 
meet the 25% reduction goal by 2012.

The amount of coal combustion products 
beneficially used in 2008 was 2,232 
thousand tons, approximately 9% higher 
than the 2,052 thousand tons benefi-
cially used in 2007 (all figures exclude 
structural fills). We are on track to meet 
the 10% goal by 2012.

We finalized our 2008 baseline data 
and established a goal to increase the 
percentage of solid waste that is recycled 
from 55% to 65% by the end of 2012. 
Our improvement efforts will focus on both 
waste reduction and increased recycling. 

Address long-term water supply issues by:

  Conducting water balance 

surveys to better understand 
how water is currently being 
utilized

Water balance surveys have been 
completed at our 11 major power plants  
in the Carolinas and are being reviewed  
for potential improvement opportunities. 

  Collaborating with other large 
water users and withdrawers 
in the Carolinas as the region 
experiences continued popula-
tion growth and drought 
conditions 

We continue to collaborate with stake-
holders within the Catawba-Wateree River 
Basin to address drought conditions and 
improve long-term water management. 
Our basin-wide approach has been recog-
nized within N.C. as a model approach. 
Dialogue with Savannah River Basin 
stakeholders in S.C. has been initiated. 

  Achieve zero work-related 

fatalities and top decile safety 
performance in total incident 
case rate (TICR) by 2012

  Develop a culture of wellness 

by encouraging, supporting and 
rewarding improved employee 
health and well-being 

  Drive understanding of the  

value of sustainability within  
the company to inspire ideas 
and innovation

We achieved zero work-related fatalities 
during 2008. Our TICR improved to 1.15 
in 2008, beating our year-end target of 
1.19. We are on track to be top-decile in 
TICR by 2012. 

Participation in the Live Well program 
grew to over 3,000 employees at year-end 
2008. Approximately 6,700 employees 
received flu shots and more than 550 
employees joined the company-subsidized 
Weight Watchers program.

A training and education program on 
sustainability has been designed and  
is being implemented in 2009.

Attract, retain and engage a diverse, talented workforce by:

Implementing a more effective 
employee recruitment and  
development plan

  Developing and implementing 
innovative employee programs 
and benefits

  Launching ways to transfer or 

retain critical knowledge

We are partnering with technical and 
community colleges to prepare and recruit 
new employees. A new first-line supervisor 
training program was launched in 2008. 
Employee Resource Groups continue to 
provide development, networking and 
recruiting opportunities.

We implemented high-deductible health 
plan and health savings account options 
to help employees save for future health 
expenses on a tax-favored basis. 

We are using succession planning, entry-
level development programs and process 
documentation to transfer or retain critical 
knowledge.

PROGRESS kEY

  Achieved or On Track

  Currently Not On Track

  Year-end Goal Not Achieved

14

 
 
4

5

STRONG COMMUNITIES
help build strong communities

GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY
Be profitable and demonstrate strong governance and transparency

Why it matters: Our success is linked to the health 
and prosperity of the communities we serve.

Why it matters: Creating shareholder value and earning the trust 
and confidence of our many stakeholders keeps us in business.

goal

pRogRess

goal

pRogRess

Invest over $17 million annually 
in community programs that 
improve the quality of life in our 
communities

Charitable giving from The Duke Energy 
foundation totaled $17.5 million in 2008.

  Provide investors a superior  
and sustainable return on  
their investment

  Provide tools for our communi-

ties to use that will support their 
long-term planning 

We provided sustainability information and 
tools at several conferences and meetings 
of key stakeholders during 2008.

Increase spending with diverse 
suppliers by 5% a year

Implement initiatives to support 
public safety in our communities

Our spending with diverse suppliers was 
$323 million in 2008, a 40% increase 
over the prior year. This growth included a 
significant increase in fuel spending with 
diverse suppliers, partially due to rising 
prices. Even without these fuel purchases, 
our spending with diverse suppliers in 
2008 was still 10% higher than 2007.

To educate the public on how to avoid the 
dangers of electricity and natural gas, we 
distributed nearly 150,000 free individual 
training packets to schools, emergency 
responders and at-risk contractors; ran bill 
inserts and radio ads; and reached more 
than 20,000 individuals with face-to-face 
events during 2008.

Partner to stimulate economic growth in our communities by:

  Attracting 14,400 jobs in 2008   

In this challenging economy, we  
helped attract 12,164 jobs, 84%  
of the 2008 goal.

  Attracting $2.8 billion in capital 

investment in 2008  

We helped attract $2.97 billion in capital 
investment, 106% of the 2008 goal.

  Assure that we have effective 

ethics and compliance programs 

  Regularly benchmark our  

corporate governance practices 
against best-in-class and 
industry peers, and recommend 
revisions as appropriate 

  Assess our supply chain 

(services and products) from  
a sustainability perspective  
and implement appropriate 
follow-up actions

  Communicate clearly and 

frequently with our stakeholders

Even though our stock performance was 
down during 2008, we outperformed the 
overall markets. In 2008, we maintained 
and increased the quarterly dividend 
from $0.22 per share to $0.23 per share 
and took measures to protect the strong 
balance sheet of the company. further, 
we remain committed to growing adjusted 
diluted earnings per share at a compound 
annual growth rate of 5 to 7 percent 
through 2013, assuming a rebound in  
the economy.

We created a Compliance Working Group 
to share best practices and a Business 
Conduct Council to advance the preven-
tion and detection of misconduct across 
the company. Educational materials on 
the Code of Business Ethics were also 
enhanced.

We currently have favorable corporate 
governance ratings from several  
independent organizations. (See p. 43.) 

In 2008, Duke Energy joined several  
other u.S. investor-owned electric compa-
nies to form the Electric utility Industry 
Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. The 
goal of the alliance is to work collab-
oratively with suppliers to reduce the 
environmental impacts of the products and 
services we use and advance sustainable 
business practices.

As is our normal practice, we commu-
nicated and engaged with a wide range 
of stakeholders during 2008, including 
customers, investors, employees, 
suppliers, governments, communities and 
environmental groups. Key topics included 
climate change, energy efficiency, new 
generation and regional water use. 

D U k E   E N E R G Y ’ S   S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y   P L A N   A N D   P R O G R E S S

15

 
 
 
i n n o V a t i V e   p R o d u C t s   a n d   s e R V i C e s

CHALLENGES
•	 Keep	rates	affordable	in	a	rising	cost	environment

•	 Obtain	regulatory	approval	for	models	that	promote	 

energy	efficiency

OPPORTUNITIES
•	 Develop	innovative	and	economical	energy	efficient	products	 

and services

•	 Build	a	smarter	utility	system	

•	 Accelerate	deployment	of	energy	efficiency	and	the	smart	 
grid in light of provisions in the federal stimulus package  
(the	American	Recovery	and	Reinvestment	Act	of	2009)

2008 HIGHLIGHTS
•	 Gained	approval	for	save-a-watt	model	in	Ohio

•	 Conducted	smart	grid	research	and	initial	deployment	 

to test the best combination of technologies 

•	 Opened	smart	utility	labs	in	the	Midwest	and	 

Carolinas	to	showcase	smart	energy	technologies

•	 Partnered	with	automakers	and	other	utilities	to	prepare	 
for broader market interest in plug-in electric vehicles

additional information on our save-a-watt 
filing, but they also approved our proposed 
energy efficiency programs. Regulatory 
decisions in Indiana and Kentucky are 
currently pending.

We believe regulatory approaches like 
save-a-watt that treat investments in 
energy efficiency like investments in 
power plants are a winning model for a 
low-carbon economy. They help customers 
conserve electricity, save money and 
improve the environment – without sacri-
ficing convenience, comfort or reliability.

kEEPING RATES COMPETITIVE
Average retail electric rates in each of  
the five states we serve were below 
national averages in 2008. In Indiana  
and the Carolinas, our rates were below 
state averages.

We had a number of rate actions – or rate 
actions take effect – in 2008. In North 
Carolina, we reduced rates by 5.4 percent 
in 2008 and an additional 2.1 percent in 
2009, based on a 2007 order from the 
North Carolina utilities Commission.

COMPARISON OF AVERAGE ELECTRIC RATES (CENTS PER KILOWATT-HOUR)

10

8

6

4

2

0

North Carolina

South Carolina

Indiana

Ohio

Kentucky

U.S. Avg.

  = Duke Energy  

= State Average 

= National Average

Source: EEI Typical Bills and Average Rate Report, June 30, 2008

ENERGY EFFICIENCY UPDATE
Energy efficiency is an integral part of  
our transition to a low-carbon future.  
We believe the regulatory model must 
change to encourage utilities to sell less – 
not more – electricity.

Most utilities earn returns on capital 
only when they build new power plants. 
under our save-a-watt model for energy 
efficiency, Duke Energy earns a return on 
the savings that are realized by not having 
to build and operate a plant. This is called 
“avoided cost.” If our energy efficiency 
investments don’t save energy – which  
will be verified by an independent third 
party every year – we don’t get paid. 
Save-a-watt creates the incentives we need 
to aggressively pursue energy efficiency as 
an alternative to investing in new plants.

The Public utilities Commission of Ohio 
approved save-a-watt in December 2008. 
In early 2009, South Carolina regula-
tors rejected our save-a-watt proposal 
but expressed a willingness to expedite 
their review of a revised energy efficiency 
plan. North Carolina regulators requested 

16

1“Save-a-watt	represents	a	true	winning	regulatory	approach.	Utility	shareholders	win	
with	returns	earned	on	investments	in	energy	efficiency.	Customers	win	with	lower	
energy costs. The environment wins with reduced greenhouse gas and other emissions. 
And	our	nation	wins	with	a	stronger	economy	and	enhanced	energy	security.”	

– Kateri Callahan, President, Alliance to Save Energy*

We provide billing plans with predict-
able monthly payments to residential and 
small business customers to help them 
manage their cash flows. Customers can 
enroll in a plan that lets them make equal 
payments 11 months of the year, followed 
by a “settle-up” in the 12th month. Our 
Midwest customers also have an option 
of a plan which avoids a settle-up month 
through quarterly adjustments to the bill.

We recognize that people sometimes 
do not pay their monthly electric bill 
for various reasons, including travel or 
illness. Sometimes our customers simply 
forget. We offer a Third-Party Notification 
program to serve as a safety net to help 
prevent electric service interruptions for 
nonpayment. under this program, Duke 
Energy sends a copy of the monthly bill to 
a designated third party of the customer’s 
choosing. While the third party is not 
responsible for paying the bill, he or she 
will be notified if the account becomes 
past due and may be able to help arrange 
for payment.  

Information on state-specific programs to 
help our customers manage their bills is 
available on www.duke-energy.com.

In late 2008, Ohio regulators approved  
the Electric Security Plan for 2009 through 
2011. As a result, customer rates will 
increase 2 percent per year in 2009 and 
2010, and 1 percent in 2011.

We are currently in a rising cost environ-
ment, and the frequency of rate cases over 
the next five years will be higher than in 
prior years. Electric base-rate increases 
are forecasted for 2010, 2011 and 2012 
in the Carolinas; 2009 and 2012 in 
Ohio; 2011 in Kentucky; and 2013 in 
Indiana. We will continue to aggressively 
manage our costs and propose regula-
tory approaches that help smooth out the 
effects of rate increases on our customers.   

HELPING CUSTOMERS  
MANAGE THEIR BILLS
Duke Energy provides a number of 
tools and programs to help customers 
manage their energy use. These services 
are especially important in the current 
economic downturn.

We provide incentives for residential and 
small business customers to become more 
energy efficient. for example, our Smart 
$aver™ program in Ohio provides cash 
incentives to customers who buy high-
efficiency equipment, such as lighting  
and heating and cooling systems. 

We continue to see good results from 
our collaboration with energy-intensive 
commercial and industrial customers. for 
example, under our PowerShare® program, 
large business customers agree to reduce 
their electric consumption during peak 
demand times in exchange for a monthly 
credit. Our Smart $aver program provides 
cash incentives on more than 150 pieces 
of equipment and includes a custom 
option to help customers achieve efficien-
cies through process improvements.

save energy, save money, save the environment

expires 12-14-08

save 40%

this coupon is good for one package 

of either the bright effects 4 pack 

23watt (153972) or the 6 pack 

13watt (46428).

Consumer: Coupon is not redeemable for cash, is nontransfer-

able and cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupon 

or discount. Void if copied, transferred, or sold through any on-

line  auctions.  Good  for  a  single  purchase  of  item  153972  or 

46428  at  any  Ohio  or  Kentucky  Lowe’s®  store.  Not  valid  on 

previous  sales,  installation  fees  or  the  purchase  of  gift  cards. 

©2008 by Lowe’s®. All rights reserved. Lowe’s and the gable 

design are registered trademarks of LF, LLC. Expires 12/14/08.

employee barcode instructions: At any time during this trans-

action, please scan the barcode. Please take the coupon from 

the customer and destroy.

save energy, save money, save the environment

expires 12-14-08

save 40%

this coupon is good for one package 

of either the bright effects 4 pack 

23watt (153972) or the 6 pack 

13watt (46428).

Consumer: Coupon is not redeemable for cash, is nontransfer-

able and cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupon 

or discount. Void if copied, transferred, or sold through any on-

line  auctions.  Good  for  a  single  purchase  of  item  153972  or 

46428  at  any  Ohio  or  Kentucky  Lowe’s®  store.  Not  valid  on 

previous  sales,  installation  fees  or  the  purchase  of  gift  cards. 

©2008 by Lowe’s®. All rights reserved. Lowe’s and the gable 

design are registered trademarks of LF, LLC. Expires 12/14/08.

employee barcode instructions: At any time during this trans-

action, please scan the barcode. Please take the coupon from 

the customer and destroy.

save energy, save money, save the environment

expires 12-14-08

save 40%

this coupon is good for one package 

of either the bright effects 4 pack 

23watt (153972) or the 6 pack 

13watt (46428).

Consumer: Coupon is not redeemable for cash, is nontransfer-

able and cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupon 

or discount. Void if copied, transferred, or sold through any on-

line  auctions.  Good  for  a  single  purchase  of  item  153972  or 

46428  at  any  Ohio  or  Kentucky  Lowe’s®  store.  Not  valid  on 

previous  sales,  installation  fees  or  the  purchase  of  gift  cards. 

©2008 by Lowe’s®. All rights reserved. Lowe’s and the gable 

design are registered trademarks of LF, LLC. Expires 12/14/08.

employee barcode instructions: At any time during this trans-

action, please scan the barcode. Please take the coupon from 

the customer and destroy.

save energy, save money, save the environment

expires 12-14-08

save 40%

this coupon is good for one package 

of either the bright effects 4 pack 

23watt (153972) or the 6 pack 

13watt (46428).

Consumer: Coupon is not redeemable for cash, is nontransfer-

able and cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupon 

or discount. Void if copied, transferred, or sold through any on-

line  auctions.  Good  for  a  single  purchase  of  item  153972  or 

46428  at  any  Ohio  or  Kentucky  Lowe’s®  store.  Not  valid  on 

previous  sales,  installation  fees  or  the  purchase  of  gift  cards. 

©2008 by Lowe’s®. All rights reserved. Lowe’s and the gable 

design are registered trademarks of LF, LLC. Expires 12/14/08.

employee barcode instructions: At any time during this trans-

action, please scan the barcode. Please take the coupon from 

the customer and destroy.

do yoUr part to proteCt oUr environment
Change a Light, Change the worLd.

You can do more to help the environment. When you switch from incandes-
cent to compact fluorescent light bulbs you not only save money, you reduce 
greenhouse gas and landfill waste.

Using CFL bULbs is the environmentaLLy right thing to do.  
aCCording to energy star®, when yoU Use CFL bULbs, yoU:

  save energy. ENERGY STAR qualified CFLs use about 75 percent less energy than 

  save the environment. Because CFL bulbs use less energy, using them reduces your 

  save money. For each incandescent bulb you replace with a CFL bulb, you save 

around $13 a year based on ENERGY STAR data for national residential customer 
use. Replace 10 and your savings grow to $130 annually. 

you can make a difference. save energy, save money, save the environment. 
Visit www.duke-energy.com for more information about the safe handling and recycling 
of CFL bulbs.

By redeeming this coupon, customer agrees that Duke Energy may contact customer regarding additional energy savings programs.  
Printed on paper that is elemental chlorine free and is certified to have come from well-managed forests.

DEA1

standard incandescent bulbs.

DUkE ENERGY jOINS WITH 
RETAILERS ON ENERGY 
EFFICIENT LIGHTING
We’ve joined with 
ENERGY STAR® and 
retailers Wal-Mart, 
Sam’s Club, Lowe’s, 
home Depot, Ace 
hardware and 
Kroger to offer Duke 
Energy customers 
discounts on energy 
efficient lighting 
products. Our retail 
partners sold nearly 
240,000 compact 
fluorescent light-
bulbs (CfLs) to customers who 
took advantage of the program 
in Kentucky and Ohio in 2008. 
Participating stores reported 200 
to 500 percent increases in CfL 
sales as a result of the promo-
tion. The CfLs purchased during 
the campaign have the collective 
potential to save $4.3 million in 
electricity costs each year.

home’s greenhouse gas emissions.

ONLINE ENERGY CALCULATORS
Our online calculators help customers 
estimate their energy usage and 
how much they can save by making 
energy efficiency investments.

*  A Q&A with Kateri Callahan appears in the  

2008 Duke Energy Summary Annual 
Report. The full interview is available on 
our Web site at www.duke-energy.com/ar.

I N N O V A T I V E   P R O D U C T S   A N D   S E R V I C E S

17

 
“Smart	grid,	with	its	digital,	two-way	communication	capabilities,	will	trans-
form	how	we	operate	our	system	–	improving	customer	service,	power	
reliability,	and	the	efficiency	of	our	transmission	and	distribution	system.”

 – Todd Arnold, Senior Vice President, Smart Grid and Customer Systems

BUILDING A SMARTER GRID

PLUG-IN ELECTRIC VEHICLES: THE 
ULTIMATE “SMART” APPLIANCE
Because the transportation sector is the 
second-largest contributor of greenhouse 
gases, we think plug-in electric vehicles 
(PEV) will play an important role in transi-
tioning to a low-carbon future. Widespread 

adoption of PEVs 

can reduce 
vehicle 
greenhouse 
emissions  
by more than 
450 million 

metric tons annually 

by 2050 – the equivalent to 
removing 82.5 million passenger cars from 
the road – according to an Electric Power 
Research Institute and Natural Resources 
Defense Council study. Other benefits 
include reducing dependence on foreign  
oil and improved fuel costs.

PEVs are the ultimate smart appliance. 
They can be charged during off-peak times 
when energy is cheapest. They also have 
the capability to store power that could in 
the future be supplied back to the home  
or power grid as needed.

We are partnering with other electric 
utilities and automakers to define require-
ments for the widespread adoption of 
PEVs. This work includes engineering 
the technical infrastructure, developing 
a pricing structure and designing a new 
customer service model for PEV drivers.

To better understand PEV technology 
and its application to everyday life, we 
converted five of the standard hybrid-
electric vehicles in our fleet to include 
plug-in capability. These automobiles  
are powered by a gasoline engine and  
a rechargeable battery that plugs into  
a standard 110-volt outlet.

deliver	power	–	that’s	all	–	with	 
little communication between the 
utility, the power grid, the meters  
and our customers.

Smart	grid,	with	its	digital,	two-way	
communication capabilities, will 
transform how we operate our 
system	–	improving	customer	
service, power reliability, and 
the	efficiency	of	our	transmis-
sion and distribution system.

Q.   What will smart grid allow us  
to do that we can’t do today? 

A.   We’ll be able to give customers infor-
mation on their daily electric and gas 
usage, which opens the door for new 
energy	efficiency	programs	that	help	
customers conserve power, save money 
and help the environment.

Another	big	benefit	is	that	we	will	 
know when the power is out at a  
home or business without the customer 
having	to	call	us.	Smart	grid	will	also	
help us provide new flexible billing  
and	payment	options.	And,	we’ll	be	
able to handle meter reading as well  
as service connections and disconnec-
tions remotely.

Q.   What is the cost and timeline for  

Duke Energy’s smart grid deployment?

A.   We currently have initial deployments 
under	way	in	North	Carolina,	South	
Carolina	and	the	Greater	Cincinnati,	
Ohio,	area	comprising	approximately	
70,000	smart	electric	meters	and	
40,000	digital	gas	meters.

Pending	regulatory	approvals,	we	 
plan	to	invest	about	$1	billion	over	 
the	next	five	years	in	smart	grid	equip-
ment for homes and businesses in 
our service territories. We’ve received 
approval to begin deploying smart 
grid	technology	in	Ohio,	where	we	will	
install	700,000	smart	meters	over	the	
next	five	years.	We’re	seeking	approval	
to	install	up	to	800,000	smart	meters	
in	Indiana.	We’re	also	making	plans	to	
bring	the	smart	grid	to	the	Carolinas	
and	Kentucky.

Q & A

todd aRnold
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, SMART GRID  
AND CuSTOMER SYSTEMS

The “smart grid” is making headlines a lot these 
days.	The	American	Recovery	and	Reinvestment	
Act	of	2009	–	also	known	as	the	federal	
economic	stimulus	package	–	includes	$11	
billion for the development of a smart power 
grid which could accelerate this new technology. 
In	the	following	Q&A,	Todd	Arnold,	senior	vice	
president of smart grid and customer systems, 
explains what the smart grid is and what it 
means to customers.

Q.   What do we mean by the term “smart grid?”  

A.		 Smart	grid	is	really	about	digital	two-way	
communication	–	between	the	customer	
and	Duke	Energy,	and	Duke	Energy	and	
the power grid. The customer’s meter and 
devices on the grid will provide real-time 
information, and help us improve how  
we deliver energy and how customers 
consume energy.

Duke	Energy’s	smart	grid	initiative	is	part	
of	a	much	larger	effort.	Building	out	a	
nationwide smart grid is an industrywide, 
multibillion-dollar vision for the digital 
modernization of energy delivery in this 
country. You could say, in effect, we’re 
building	out	an	“energy	Internet.”

Q.   How does this differ from the existing  

power grid we have today?

A.   The existing power grid is an engineering 

marvel, but its design is more than a century 
old.	It’s	an	analog-based	system	designed	to	

18

	
	
	
	
THE NExT FRONTIER:  
ENERGY STORAGE
Breakthroughs in large-scale energy 
storage technologies continue to 
present intriguing new opportunities. 
We are testing power storage solutions 
that will enable us to:
•  Better harness intermittent renew-
able energy, like solar and wind
•  use large-scale portable storage 

devices to provide reliable backup 
power during service disruptions

•  use smaller storage devices in 
customers’ homes to help meet 
demand during peak usage periods
•  Support our efforts to maintain the 

stability of the power grid
•  further contribute to a smart 

energy grid in the u.S.

We are conducting two pilots to test 
battery technology in Charlotte, N.C.  
In one pilot, while we are upgrading  
a substation, we are using a zinc 
bromide battery – roughly the size of 
a cargo container – to store energy. 
The battery will discharge power as 
needed to meet customer demand. 
And, because this storage device is 
portable, it can be moved to another 
Duke Energy site once the substation 
has been upgraded.

We are also testing battery storage 
in combination with solar energy at 
another substation site. A large zinc 
bromide battery will store energy from 
solar power arrays or the grid and 
release it to area customers during 
periods of peak demand. Energy 
management systems installed in the 
homes of 50 to 100 customers will  
use real-time data to automatically 
manage power consumption.

We may also use this project to test 
“distributed generation,” which is 

THE FUTURE OF ENERGY IS HERE
We’re using smart grid demonstration 
sites	in	Erlanger,	Ky.,	and	Raleigh,	
N.C.,	to	help	educate	government	
officials,	legislators	and	the	public	
on the technology’s potential. These 
Envision	Centers	feature	a	“smart”	
home complete with solar panels 
and an electric vehicle, an apartment 
complex with advanced meters, and 
a power delivery control center with 
real-time monitoring. Visitors learn how 
smart grid technologies can transform 
our power delivery system and help 
customers	use	energy	more	efficiently.	

We also contributed smart grid 
expertise	to	the	energy	efficient	Cliffs 
Cottage	at	Furman	University	in	South	
Carolina.	The	home	features	an	energy	
management system, solar power 
technology,	high-efficiency	appliances	
and sustainable-material construction. 
Located	in	the	Duke	Energy	Village	on	
campus,	Cliffs	Cottage	was	designated	
a	Southern	Living	Showcase	Home	 
and	featured	in	the	magazine’s	June	
2008	issue.	The	home	is	open	to	the	
public	through	mid-2009,	when	it	 
will	become	the	university’s	Center	 
for	Sustainability. 

electricity produced close to customers, 
rather than at large, centralized power 
plants. Distributed generation – using 
solar energy in this case – holds the 
potential to create reliable “micro” 
power grids in communities and neigh-
borhoods. These micro grids could 
change the way utilities plan to meet 
future load growth.

I N N O V A T I V E   P R O D U C T S   A N D   S E R V I C E S

19

kEEPING THE NATURAL GAS FLOWING
Troy Brown, a mechanic operator I in Glendale,  
Ohio, installs and repairs natural gas pipelines.

GIVING CUSTOMERS  
GREEN POWER OPTIONS
Duke Energy provides options  
to customers who want to 
support the development of 
renewable energy or offset  
their carbon footprints.

gReen poweR and CaRBon offset pRogRams –  
CustomeR paRtiCipation

State Programs 

12/07

12/08

IN GoGreen

Customers

1,156

1,482

Blocks*/Month

3,520

4,432

NC GreenPower

Customers

7,190

7,775

Blocks*/Month

11,884

11,505

384

1,379

n/a

855

255

Customers

Customers

Blocks*/Month

Blocks*/Month

Oh GoGreen  
(launched 7/07)

SC Palmetto Clean Energy  
(launched 2/08)

Customers in the Carolinas, 
Indiana and Ohio can purchase 
blocks of green power each 
month. A green power program 
is planned for Kentucky 
in 2009. Green power is 
electricity generated using 
low or no-carbon renewable 
resources such as solar, wind, 
biomass and water. Purchases 
of green power help advance 
the development of environ-
mentally friendly energy sources 
and avoid the release of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere. By the end of 2008, 
approximately 10,000 Duke Energy customers, less than 1 percent, were enrolled in  
these programs, representing 1.7 gigawatt-hours of green energy purchases per month.

*  One block equals 100 kilowatt-hours of green energy.
**One block equals 500 pounds of carbon reduction.

NC Carbon Offsets  
(launched 7/08)

SC Carbon Offsets  
(launched 8/08)

Blocks**/Month

Blocks**/Month

Customers

Customers

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

39

45

125

188

3

5

Also in 2008, we introduced a program for customers in the Carolinas to purchase offsets 
that reduce or prevent the release of CO2 emissions. As an incentive, Duke Energy offered 
to match the first $4 carbon offset each customer buys – up to $1 million through 2009. 
We plan to launch carbon offset programs in Indiana and Ohio in 2009.

20

ENHANCING GAS SAFETY  
AND RELIABILITY
To improve the safety and reliability 
of	the	natural	gas	system	in	Ohio	and	
Kentucky,	Duke	Energy	implemented	
the	Accelerated	Main	Replacement	
Program	(AMRP)	in	2000.	The	
program’s purpose is to replace cast 
iron and bare steel pipelines (and 
associated	services)	with	plastic	or	
coated	steel	pipe.	In	2008	alone,	the	
AMRP	reduced	the	number	of	leaks	
repaired by 6 percent compared to 
the	previous	year.	The	AMRP,	which	
is	60	percent	complete,	is	on	target	
to	be	finished	by	the	end	of	2010	in	
Kentucky	and	2016	in	Ohio.

POWERING A HISTORIC 
LANDMARk WITH  
RENEWABLE ENERGY
findlay Market, a 19th century 
Cincinnati, Ohio, landmark and 
the state’s oldest continuously 
operating public market, is now 
powered by 21st century renew-
able energy. In 2008, Duke 
Energy and the Ohio Department 
of Development installed 114 
photovoltaic solar panels on the 
roof of the market. By relying  
on solar power instead of 
conventional sources, findlay 
Market prevents more than  
26 tons of CO2 from being 
released each year.

A WELL-COORDINATED EFFORT
Safety is the first consideration during any operation, and effective coordination is the 
second, especially when restoring power after storms. Duke Energy employees and  
contractors meet to review safe work practices and assignments before heading out to 
repair damage caused by hurricane Ike. 

POWER RELIABILITY
We set goals each year to improve power reliability, aiming for fewer outages per customer 
and shorter outages when they do occur. While we met our 2008 goals, severe weather 
hampered our results compared to 2007. however, we remained in the top quartile 
among peer electric utilities in 2008, based on 2007 Southeastern Electric Exchange  
data (the most recent available). We continue to replace equipment and upgrade our  
aging transmission and distribution systems to improve reliability.

outage statistiCs 

Per Customer

Average number of outages* (occurrences)

Average time without power* (minutes)

* Longer than 5 minutes

2006

2007

1.30

164

1.13

133

2008

1.19

153

2008 Goal

1.30

155

HELPING THE MIDWEST  
REBOUND FROM HURRICANE IkE
When the remnants of hurricane Ike hit 
our Midwest service areas – including 
parts of Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky –
in September 2008, approximately 1.1 
million Duke Energy customers lost 
power. historians called the wind storm 
the most damaging Cincinnati had seen 
in a century. The around-the-clock power 
restoration effort, which lasted just over a 
week, involved more than 3,000 workers 
at its peak. Call center representatives 
fielded nearly half-a-million telephone 
calls during this period. In all, our crews 
replaced more than 1,300 broken poles, 
100 miles of power lines and nearly 
1,200 transformers.

In addition to rebuilding the electric 
system, Duke Energy leaders partnered 
with government and emergency manage-
ment agencies to provide emergency infor-
mation, distribute bottled water, clean up 
damage from the storm and direct families 
in need to shelters. Our efforts earned us 
the Emergency Recovery Award from the 
Edison Electric Institute in March 2009.

We learned several important lessons  
from hurricane Ike that have helped  
us respond to subsequent storms:
•  We created a new Major Storm Event 
Organization to speed our ability to 
handle surges in customer inquiries 
resulting from severe weather.
•  We increased the number of storm 
restoration staging areas – where 
personnel and equipment assemble 
to begin repairs – to better distribute 
resources as quickly as possible during 
major weather events.

•  We began using Twitter – a “micro-

blogging” and social networking Web 
service – to communicate power resto-
ration updates to customers via their 
cell phones and computers.

WORkING WITH INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS: CUMMINS
We are partnering with one of our largest customers, Cummins Inc., to help it fulfill its commitment to the EPA Climate Leaders program 
to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas (GhG) emissions. Cummins, a manufacturer of diesel engines and related components, 
recently pledged to cut its total GhG emissions by 25 percent (adjusted for sales) by 2010. Recognizing that such a reduction would 
require aggressive energy efficiency measures, Cummins asked Duke Energy to help assess its facilities, justify capital expenditures on 
energy-saving initiatives and help implement new projects. More than 100 energy efficiency upgrades have yielded substantial energy 
savings in the past year.

I N N O V A T I V E   P R O D U C T S   A N D   S E R V I C E S

21

e n V i R o n m e n t a l   f o o t p R i n t

CHALLENGES
•	 Supply	reliable	and	cost-effective	energy	while	minimizing	 

OPPORTUNITIES
•	 Promote	sound	U.S.	climate	change	policy

our impact on the environment

•	 Reduce	greenhouse	gases	(GHGs)	while	meeting	customers’	 

energy needs

•	 Maintain	momentum	for	renewable	energy	growth	during	 

this economic downturn

•	 Plan	for	new	generation	during	times	of	volatile	fuel	prices

•	 Manage	increasingly	scarce	water	supplies	in	some	regions

•	 Monitor,	influence	and	prepare	for	potential	new	rules	 
associated with clean air, coal ash impoundments and  
mountaintop removal coal mining

•	 Demonstrate	the	need	for	energy	efficiency	 
and multiple power generation options

•	

Increase	our	use	of	renewable	energy

2008 HIGHLIGHTS
•	 Refined	the	scenarios	associated	with	our	2030	 

challenge	to	cut	our	2006	U.S.	CO2 emissions in half

•	 Continued	(Edwardsport)	and	began	(Cliffside)	construction	 

of advanced coal stations

•	 Participated	in	collaborative	efforts	to	promote	 

•	 Conducted	research	on	the	potential	for	carbon	capture	and	

balanced energy policy 

sequestration 

•	 Took	actions	to	reduce	our	GHG	emissions

•	 Grew	our	renewable	energy	business

•	 Continued	to	preserve	the	nuclear	option	by	gaining	U.S.	Nuclear	
Regulatory	Commission	acceptance	for	review	of	our	construction	 
and	operating	license	application	for	the	Lee	Nuclear	Station.

ADVANCING THE DIALOGUE  
ON CLIMATE CHANGE

that could occur in certain regions without 
a fair national cap-and-trade system.

appropriate incentives for both consumers 
and providers.

As one of the nation’s largest 

emitters of carbon dioxide 
(CO2), we recognize 
our special respon-
sibility to be part of 
the solution to global 
climate change. We 
believe climate legisla-
tion is imminent and will 

have far-reaching effects on our economy.

We take a very active role in the global 
dialogue on how to aggressively, but 
responsibly, combat climate change. for 
instance, we support an economywide 
greenhouse gas cap-and-trade system 
that covers all emissions from fossil fuels. 
At the same time, we want to protect 
customers from the electricity “rate shock” 

We believe that new nuclear power plants 
are needed to decarbonize America’s 
electric supply. We also believe the federal 
government should help bring new clean-
coal technologies – particularly carbon 
capture and storage – to market as quickly 
as possible. 

Renewable resources like wind and solar 
energy will also play a greater role in our 
nation’s electricity mix. however, we must 
upgrade the country’s transmission grid to 
bring renewable power from remote areas 
to highly populated regions.

We encourage federal and state commit-
ments to energy efficiency and believe 
energy efficiency programs must include 

Duke Energy’s Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Rogers is a 
leading advocate for responsible climate 
change legislation. Appearing before the 
Congressional Committee on Energy and 
Commerce in January 2009 to present 
the u.S. Climate Action Partnership’s 
“Blueprint for Legislative Action,” Rogers 
said: “Our economy has been increas-
ingly dependent on carbon-based fuels for 
more than 100 years. We will not be able 
to substantially decarbonize quickly or 
easily – but the sooner we pass legislation 
that equally balances the interests of our 
environment, economy and consumers, 
the better off we all will be.”

22

2“What	I’ve	appreciated	in	Washington	is	that	companies	like	Duke	can	be	a	
powerful	voice	for	change,	and	Jim	Rogers’	participation	in	the	U.S.	Climate	
Action	Partnership	and	support	of	its	Blueprint	for	strong	legislation	have	
helped open the eyes of legislators to the urgent need for action.”

– fred Krupp, President, Environmental Defense fund*

UPDATE ON NEW  
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
Because our greatest sustainability 
risks and opportunities are  
in the environmental focus area,  
we developed additional goals in 
2007 to reduce our air, water and 
waste footprints. This is the first  
year we are reporting progress on 
these goals. highlights include:
•  We exceeded our 2008 goal to 
reduce the nitrogen oxides (NOx)
emission rate by 10 percent and 
the sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission 
rate by 35 percent from the coal-
fired power plants we operate, and 
we have set equally aggressive 
targets for 2009. 

•  We finalized our methodology to 
calculate vehicle fleet emissions 
and compiled 2006 through 2008 
data. This will enable us to report 
progress on our goal to reduce 
emissions 35 percent by 2012, 
compared to 2006.

•  We are on track to reduce 

low-level radioactive waste  
(Class B and C) generated at  
our nuclear power plants 25 
percent by 2012, compared  
to the 2002-2005 average.

•  We are also on course to increase 
the amount of coal combustion 
products that are beneficially  
used 10 percent by 2012, 
compared to 2007.  

•  We completed water balance 
surveys to better understand  
water usage at our Carolinas 
power plants, and continue to 
collaborate with stakeholders to 
address drought conditions and 
long-term water management. 

‘STROkE OF THE PEN’ RISkS
Legislation, regulation and litigation can 
change our business at the “stroke of the 
pen.” A number of issues – beyond climate 
change – are capturing headlines or are 
under deliberation that could potentially 
affect our use of coal.

In february 2008, the u.S. Court of 
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit 
(also known as the D.C. Circuit) issued a 
decision vacating the Clean Air Mercury 
Rule (CAMR), which would have limited 
mercury emissions from coal-fired plants 
across the u.S. through a two-phased 
cap-and-trade program beginning in 
2010. Requests for rehearing and u.S. 
Supreme Court review of the D.C. Circuit’s 
decision were subsequently denied. The 
u.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) will now develop mercury emission 
standards for utility units under Section 
112 of the Clean Air Act to abide with  
the D.C. Circuit’s decision. 

In July 2008, the D.C. Circuit issued a 
decision vacating the Clean Air Interstate 
Rule (CAIR) on emissions of sulfur 
dioxide and nitrogen oxides. The federal 
appeals court then reinstated the CAIR in 
December 2008 as an interim solution 
while the EPA develops a new clean air 
program to replace CAIR.

In light of the accident at the Tennessee 
Valley Authority plant in December 2008, 
the EPA plans to develop new regula-
tions for coal ash management, including 
impoundments. These impoundments 
typically hold ash, mixed with water, in 
basins surrounded by an earthen berm. 

Regulations for inspection of these struc-
tures vary by state. We inspect our dams 
with a mix of annual in-depth and monthly 
or periodic (i.e., after a significant rainfall) 
visual inspections. We recently reviewed 
our latest inspection reports to assure that 
all resulting recommendations have been 
or are being addressed.

Another topic in the news recently is 
mountaintop-removal coal mining. Duke 
Energy is obligated by state regulations  
to purchase the most economic and high-
quality coal possible, which may include 
coal from mountaintop mines. We estimate 
that approximately 20 percent of the coal 
we burn comes from mountaintop mines. 
A bill to ban the use of mountaintop-mined 
coal was reintroduced in North Carolina  
in early 2009. Similar bills have been 
introduced in other states and at the 
federal level. 

Litigation over alleged industry violations 
of the New Source Review (NSR) provi-
sions of the Clean Air Act (CAA) continued 
in 2008. Generally, the government 
alleges that projects performed at various 
coal-fired units were major modifications, 
as defined in the CAA. According to the 
government lawsuits, several utilities – 
including Duke Energy – violated the 
Act when they undertook those projects 
without obtaining permits and installing 
the best available emission controls for 
NOx, SO2 and particulate matter. We 
have maintained that no CAA violations 
occurred because the regulations do not 
require permits in cases where the projects 
are routine or otherwise do not result in a 
net increase in emissions.

E N V I R O N M E N T A L   F O O T P R I N T

23

*  A Q&A with fred Krupp appears in the 2008 
Duke Energy Summary Annual Report. The 
full interview is available on our Web site at 
www.duke-energy.com/ar.

2030 CHALLENGE UPDATE

Q & A

doug esamann
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT,  
STRATEGY AND PLANNING

In	the	2007|2008	Duke	Energy	Sustainability	
Report,	we	described	our	challenge	to	cut	our	
2006	U.S.	CO2	emissions	in	half	by	2030.	In	
the	following	Q&A,	Doug	Esamann,	senior	vice	
president of strategy and planning, provides an 
update on that work.

Q:  What has Duke Energy learned from the 

2030 scenarios?

A:   First and foremost, we realized how much 
we	needed	a	specific,	coherent	vision	like	
this to help us navigate to a low-carbon 
future.	Our	2030	framework	is	being	used	
throughout the company.

  We also learned a lot from sharing the work 
with	various	stakeholder	groups.	Some	
said, “You’re not doing nearly enough with 
regard to renewable generation and energy 
efficiency.”	The	revised	2030	scenario	
reflects our new assumptions.

Q:  What needs to change to enable  
Duke Energy to halve its carbon  
emissions by 2030?

A:   Technology and public policy are the 
biggest	drivers	of	change.	Smart	grid	
technology, for example, has the potential 
to allow us to be much better at energy 
efficiency	and	offer	products	that	give	our	
customers more control over their power 
usage	and	costs.	Carbon	capture	and	
sequestration	technology	might	signifi-
cantly reduce emissions. Legislative and 
regulatory changes could also pave the 
way for further growth in renewable energy, 
especially our expanding wind, solar and 
biomass businesses.

  We also need to ensure our stakeholders 
understand the potential cost associated 
with reducing our carbon footprint.

Q:  What will Duke Energy’s path to signifi-
cantly lower carbon emissions look like?

A:		 I	don’t	expect	the	path	to	carbon	

reduction	to	be	linear.	Progress	is	bound	 
to be irregular, since we’re affected by 
variables such as the pace of advances  

in technology, regulatory challenges, 
weather and customer demand for power, 
to name just a few. We have to stick to  
our plan to reduce our carbon emissions 
but be flexible enough to account for  
these uncertainties.

Q:  Which of these variables pose the  

greatest risk to Duke Energy cutting  
its CO2 emissions in half by 2030?

A:   We don’t have federal legislation on 

carbon reductions yet. We don’t know  
what the expected reductions will be,  
what prices will be placed on carbon in  
the marketplace, or if utilities like ours 
will get any allowances to mitigate the 
economic impacts on customers. That’s 
especially important when you consider 
that a large percentage of our business is 
regulated. Without a clear road map, it’s 
difficult	to	tell	state	utility	commissions	 
and customers how much it will cost us  
to reduce carbon emissions, and this 
creates a bias for inaction.

2006 VS. 2030 FUEL MIX TO HALVE C02 EMISSIONS (PERCENT OF MWH GENERATED)

100

80

60

40

20

0

2006 Baseline

2008

2030 Estimate – Original Scenario

2030 Estimate – Refined Scenario

Coal 

Nuclear 

Hydro/Natural Gas/Oil 

Renewables 

Energy Efficiency

For discussion purposes only

TURNING LANDFILL GAS INTO ELECTRIC POWER
Duke Energy is a partner in a new South Carolina landfill gas-to-electricity project, which was selected as the 2008 Project of the Year by 
the National Landfill Methane Outreach Program. The facility, which began operating in September 2008, captures methane gas released 
during the natural decay of trash at Greenville County’s Enoree Landfill. The gas is then converted to electricity – enough to power roughly 
2,000 average-size homes each year. Duke Energy will also purchase electricity from another landfill gas project in Durham, N.C., that will 
begin supplying electricity to approximately 1,600 residential customers in 2009. Capturing methane, a greenhouse gas, and using it as 
fuel is a green alternative to burning it as a waste product.

24

 
In	the	near	term,	coal,	nuclear,	natural	gas	and	renewables	must	
continue to be part of the supply equation as we strive to meet 
growing demand for reliable, affordable and increasingly clean energy.

CLEANER AND MORE  
EFFICIENT: DIVERSIFYING  
OUR GENERATION FLEET
We are committed to diversifying our fleet 
of power plants to meet the needs of a 
low-carbon future. In the near term, coal, 
nuclear, natural gas and renewables must 
continue to be part of the supply equation 
as we strive to meet growing demand 
for reliable, affordable and increasingly 
clean energy. Additionally, we call energy 
efficiency “the fifth fuel” because it reduces 
the need for new generation; the cleanest 
and most efficient power plant is the one 
you don’t have to build.

Making Cleaner Coal a Reality
Approximately half of the electricity gener-
ated in the u.S. is produced with coal. 
As our nation transitions to a low-carbon 
future, we are replacing older, less-efficient 
coal plants with new, cleaner-burning coal 
technologies. In Edwardsport, Ind., we are 
building a state-of-the-art 630-megawatt 
(MW) integrated gasification combined 
cycle (IGCC) power plant. IGCC technology 
converts coal to a synthetic gas that is 
used to produce power. Duke Energy is 
well-acquainted with IGCC technology. 
We were involved with the design and 
construction of the IGCC plant in Terre 
haute, Ind., a Department of Energy 
demonstration project that has been in 
operation since 1994.

When completed in 2012, the 
Edwardsport IGCC plant will be one 
of the cleanest and most efficient coal- 
fired power plants in the world. It will  
emit less sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides 
and particulates than the 50-year old  
plant it replaces – while providing more 
than 10 times the generating capacity.

We will continue to study the potential  
to securely store CO2 in underground 
geological formations at or near the 
Edwardsport site. The combination of 
IGCC and carbon capture and seques-
tration could become a breakthrough 
technology to reduce CO2 emissions. 

In North Carolina, construction of a new 
825-MW advanced cleaner-coal unit is 
underway at the Cliffside Steam Station. 
Cliffside unit 6 will be one of the cleanest 
and most efficient pulverized coal-fired 
units in the nation when it comes on line 
in 2012.

We will retire four less-efficient coal  
units at the site – totaling 200 MW of 
capacity – and an additional 800 MW of 
older coal-fired generation once Cliffside 
unit 6 comes on line. We will take 
additional actions to make Cliffside  
unit 6 “carbon neutral” by 2018. 

The modernization of existing unit 5  
and construction of the new unit 6 
means that more than twice the amount 
of electricity will be generated at Cliffside 
with significantly less emissions of SO2, 
NOx and mercury.

Natural Gas Remains in the Mix
We received regulatory approval in June 
2008 to build two 620-MW combined 
cycle, natural gas-fired generating plants 
in North Carolina. These plants will help 
us modernize our fleet and reduce air 
emissions. Both plants will be located 
at existing power plant sites – the Buck 
and Dan River steam stations. Given the 
economic downturn, we decided in late 
2008 to delay construction of the Buck 
plant for up to one year. Both plants can 
still be available to help meet customer 
demand in 2012.

The Nuclear Solution to Climate Change
Building new nuclear power plants is 
essential to any serious plan to decar-
bonize our nation’s energy supply. Nuclear-
powered generation has a proven safety 
record, operates with a very high degree of 
reliability and emits no greenhouse gases. 

We continue to pursue the option to 
develop the 2,234-MW William States 
Lee III Nuclear Station in Cherokee 
County, S.C. In early 2008, we received 
notice from the u.S. Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission (NRC) that our construction 
and operating license application for the 
station was accepted for review. Based 
on the current NRC schedule, we expect 
to receive this license by 2012. We also 
received orders from the North Carolina 
utilities Commission and the Public 
Service Commission of South Carolina 
concurring that continued development 
of the station is in our customers’ best 
interest.

Most nuclear power plants now operating 
in the u.S. were commissioned during the 
1960s, 1970s or 1980s. Clearly, the costs 
associated with building a new nuclear 
station have risen considerably, and used 
fuel management is a continuing issue. 
Today, used fuel is safely and securely 
stored at each station in spent fuel pools or 
dry canister storage. The federal govern-
ment continues to search for ways to meet 
its obligation to provide centralized storage 
sites for used nuclear fuel. We support 
the adoption of an alternative – used fuel 
recycling, a practice more commonly 
found abroad.

E N V I R O N M E N T A L   F O O T P R I N T

25

ExPANDING OUR  
RENEWABLE ENERGY BUSINESS
We know we will be moving to a 
low-carbon economy, and renewable 
energy will play an increasingly important 
role in that transition. In 2008, we grew 
our wind power business, proposed new 
solar energy projects and announced a 
major biopower joint venture.

An Important Year for Wind Energy
Through a series of strategic acquisitions 
and development projects, we significantly 
expanded our commercial wind power 
business in 2008. By the end of the year, 
we had nearly 400 MW of wind power 
in operation and another 5,000 MW 
in potential development in 14 states, 
primarily in the Central, Western and 
Southwestern regions of the u.S.

We recently brought two wind  
power projects on line:
•  The 29-MW happy Jack 

Windpower Project, in Cheyenne, 
Wyo. (September 2008)

•  Our 59-MW Ocotillo Wind farm 
located in howard County, Texas 
(November 2008)

The Notrees Windpower Project in Ector 
and Winkler counties, Texas, will come 
on line in the spring of 2009. We also 
expect our new 99-MW Campbell hill 
Windpower Project near Casper, Wyo., 
to begin operating by the end of the 
year. Duke Energy remains a 50 percent 
owner of the Sweetwater facility in Nolan 
County, Texas – one of the largest wind 
power projects in the world. In addition, 
we reached an agreement in September 
2008 to purchase 100 General Electric 
wind turbines that will produce 150 MW 
of electricity at various projects beginning 
in 2010.

In our regulated Indiana service territory, 
Duke Energy began purchasing up to 
100 MW of wind power from the Benton 
County Wind farm in April 2008.

Shining a Light on Solar Power
Solar power became an integral part of 
our renewable energy plans in 2008. We 
signed a 20-year contract with SunEdison 

to purchase approximately 16 MW of 
electricity from what will be one of the 
nation’s largest photovoltaic solar farms, 
to be built in North Carolina. The facility 
will generate enough electricity to power 
approximately 2,600 homes.

We also proposed a program to install 
photovoltaic solar panels on the rooftops 
or land of up to 400 of the North Carolina 
homes and businesses we serve. under 
this proposal, Duke Energy would  
compensate these customers for the  
right to install photovoltaic solar panels 
on their property. The electricity generated 
from these “mini power plants” would be 
capable of supplying about 1,300 houses.

Investing in Biopower
In September 2008, we announced 
a partnership with AREVA to develop 
biopower 
plants in the 
u.S. ADAGE, 
the company 
formed by 

this joint venture, will build and operate 
biopower plants that use renewable, 
organic material – often referred to as 
biomass – to produce electricity. ADAGE 
plans to start construction on its first 
biopower plant in 2010.

The American Council on Renewable 
Energy and many federal and state 
environmental agencies consider biopower 
to be carbon-neutral. Duke Energy is 
also exploring the feasibility of incorpo-
rating biomass into the fuel mix at our 
fossil plants and studying the potential 
to convert a conventional fossil unit to 
biomass.

Maintaining Our Legacy:  
Hydroelectric Generation
Duke Energy Carolinas traces its roots back 
to 1904, when the company completed 
its first generating station on the Catawba 
River. The plant used hydroelectric  
power – the first large-scale renewable 
energy source – to bring electricity to the 
region. Today, we are the second-largest 
investor-owned hydroelectric operator in 
the u.S. We also own about 3,000 MW of 
hydroelectric capacity in South America.

POWERING WAL-MART  
WITH WIND ENERGY
We announced an agreement in 
November 2008 to supply wind 
energy to Wal-Mart, the largest retailer 
in the world, for its growing Texas 
market. This deal represents the first 
substantial purchase of wind energy 
by Wal-Mart in the u.S., and one of 
the first sales of power directly from a 
specific wind project to a major retailer. 

Beginning in April 2009, Wal-Mart will 
purchase electricity directly from Duke 
Energy’s Notrees Windpower Project in 
Texas. The site will provide wind power 
to up to 15 percent of 360 Wal-Mart 
stores and other facilities in the state.

26

LEARNING LESSONS  
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
Duke	Energy	is	partnering	with	The	
Nature	Conservancy	to	conduct	
climate change adaptation research in 
North	Carolina’s	Albemarle	Peninsula.	

The	Albemarle	is	rich	with	forests,	
dunes, wetlands and sounds, and it  
is home to the healthiest estuary in 
the	eastern	U.S.	The	ecosystem’s	
peat-rich soils store large amounts  
of	carbon	dioxide.	Unfortunately,	the	
area is being threatened by rising sea 
levels	–	partially	attributed	to	climate	
change	–	that	could	contribute	to	
the	release	of	additional	CO2 into the 
atmosphere.

We	are	contributing	$1	million	over	
three years to help fund research on 
ways to slow saltwater intrusion in the 
Albemarle.	Project	workers	will	plant	
cypress trees to help hold soil in place 
and create oyster reefs to protect the 
shorelines from erosion. They will also 
modify drainage ditches to conduct 
saltwater away from ecologically 
sensitive areas. 

These actions are designed to give the 
Albemarle	time	to	adapt	to	climate	
change	and	reduce	the	amount	of	CO2 
released into the atmosphere. Lessons 
learned from this project could prove 
useful in addressing climate change 
adaptation for coastal ecosystems 
worldwide.

BEAUTIFUL AND FUNCTIONAL
Sunflower plantings provide food for wildlife and also help us reduce the need  
to mow buffer areas around Riverbend Steam Station in Gaston County, N.C.

IMPROVING WILDLIFE HABITAT
In our 2007|2008 Sustainability 
Report, we mentioned that several 
of our properties have been certified 
as part of the North Carolina Wildlife 
federation’s Wildlife and Industry 
Together (WAIT) program. WAIT 
pairs companies with volunteers 
and community groups to develop 
corporate land into natural habitat. 
In 2008, six additional hydroelectric 
stations we operate on the Catawba 
River achieved this distinction, 
bringing the total number of certi-
fied stations in North Carolina to 10. 
Projects included planting wildlife 
food plots, protecting nesting areas, 
and hosting wildlife seminars on site. 

We are also working with community 
groups to protect existing habitats. 
for example, Boy Scout Troop 59 of 
Mt. holly, N.C., is leading a number 
of habitat upgrade projects at our 
Riverbend Steam Station. In 2008, 
the scouts set up a half-mile grassy 
buffer zone along a nearby forest line. 
This enhancement not only provides a 
new sanctuary for birds, it also saves 
on our maintenance costs since we 
now need to mow this parcel only 
once every four years.

In January 2009, the International 
Soil and Water Conservation Society 
(N.C. chapter) recognized our 
environmental management practices 
with its Industrial Conservation 
Award. The society commended 
our work on the replacement of a 
20-mile transmission line in rugged 
and scenic Macon and Graham 
counties in North Carolina. Much of 
the construction project took place on 
u.S. forest Service land with steep 
slopes, trout streams and sensitive 
wetlands. We applied stringent land 
and water guidelines to minimize the 
project’s environmental impact.

The annual Eagle Viewing Days at  
our Cayuga Station near Cayuga, Ind., 
continue to be a popular draw. During 
most years, the area hosts Indiana’s 
largest population of mid-winter 
migratory bald eagles. The colder the 
weather, the more likely the birds 
will be seen. When area lakes and 
streams freeze in the winter, warm 
water discharged from the power 
plant keeps the river near the plant 
ice-free, attracting fish for the eagles 
to feed on. In addition to viewing 
eagles in the wild, the American  
Eagle foundation treats visitors to 
birds-of-prey demonstrations.

E N V I R O N M E N T A L   F O O T P R I N T

27

 
d u k e   e n e R g y   e n V i R o n m e n t a l   p e R f o R m a n C e   m e t R i C s

2.0%

0.9%

2008 net u.s. megawatt-houR geneRation1

27.2%

69.9%

 Coal

 Nuclear

 Natural Gas/Oil

 Wind/Hydro

Total

MWH (thousands)

102,297.4

39,853.7

2,988.0

1,263.3

Percent

69.9%

27.2%

2.0%

0.9%

146,402.4

100.0%

Duke Energy’s carbon dioxide (CO2) 
emissions, measured in tons per year, are 
highly dependent on weather (tempera-
ture) and demand for electricity. Carbon 
intensity, measured in pounds of CO2 per 
net megawatt-hour generated, is primarily 
dependent upon the fuel mix in the 
generation portfolio. We expect our carbon 
intensity to decline as we add cleaner, 
more efficient power plants in the years 
ahead. Sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) emissions and intensity are 
declining due to the addition of a signifi-
cant number of pollution control devices 
on our coal-fired power plants. however, 
these pollution control devices reduce 
overall plant efficiency, which has caused 
our carbon intensity to increase slightly in 
recent years.

More information on our air  
emissions is available at  
http://www.duke-energy.com/ 
environment/air-quality.asp. 

1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets.

emissions

Carbon Dioxide Emissions (thousand tons)2

• u.S.

• Latin America

• Total

2006

2007

2008

*102,300

108,500

105,000

3,000

3,100

2,700

*105,300

111,600

107,700

  u.S. CO2 Emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)

1,380

1,410

1,430

U.S. Sulfur Dioxide Emissions (tons)3

*817,700

*682,300

427,700

  SO2 Emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)

11.0

8.9

5.8

U.S. Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (tons)3

*149,200

*130,500

122,700

  NOx Emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)

2.0

1.7

1.7

*  These historical values differ slightly from what was reported last year and reflect updates or corrections that 

were made after the report was published.

2  CO2 reported from u.S. electric generation and Duke Energy International operations, and based on ownership 

share of stations.

U.S. SULFUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS (THOUSAND TONS)3

900

750

600

450

300

150

0

‘00

‘01

‘02

‘03

‘04

‘05

‘06

‘07

‘08

U.S. NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSIONS (THOUSAND TONS)3

300

250

200

150

100

50

0

‘00

‘01

‘02

‘03

‘04

‘05

‘06

‘07

‘08

3 SO2 and NOx reported from u.S. electric generation based on ownership share of coal-fired generating stations.

28

d u k e   e n e R g y   e n V i R o n m e n t a l   p e R f o R m a n C e   m e t R i C s

fuels Consumed foR u.s. eleCtRiC geneRation4

Coal (thousand tons)

Oil (thousand gallons)

Natural Gas (thousand decatherms)

4   Generating plants owned and operated by Duke Energy

u.s. toxiC Release inVentoRy – tRi (POuNDS)5

2006

46,500

Not Compiled

Not Compiled

2007

46,779

23,018

33,652

2008

45,049

22,232

26,784

Releases to Air

Releases to Water

Releases to Land

Off-Site Transfers

Total

2005

2006

2007

+/– from ‘06

80,172,829

75,751,707

59,583,874

247,542

195,247

223,547

15,234,393

14,223,652

15,592,508

77,123

64,365

91,986

95,731,887

90,234,971

75,491,915

-21%

14%

10%

43%

-16%

5   2008 data will not be available until July 2009. Data pertain to facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and is the 

responsible reporting party.

u.s. Coal ComBustion pRoduCts – CCps (ThOuSAND TONS)

Total CCPs Produced

Sluiced to Ponds6

Disposed in On-Site Landfills/Fills

Beneficially Used (excluding structural fills)

Beneficially Used (including structural fills)

*2006

8,472

3,060

3,426

1,862

3,019

*2007

8,533

2,821

4,229

2,052

3,700

2008

8,554

2,554

3,544

2,232

4,497

*   2006 and 2007 historical values differ from what was reported last year and reflect updates or corrections that were 

made after the report was published.

6   CCPs sluiced to ponds are often dug out and disposed of in landfills or beneficially used in later years

RegulatoRy Citations (INCLuDES DuKE ENERGY INTERNATIONAL)

Citations

fines/Penalties (dollars)

*2006

12

2007

12

2008

16

$8,850

$165,500

$141,657

*   These historical values differ from what was reported last year to reflect changes that have occurred as fines 

have been resolved.

u.s. RepoRtaBle oil spills

Spills

Gallons

2006

75

3,251

2007

79

28,864

2008

66

6,609

Total 2007 TRI-reported releases for Duke 
Energy were down about 16% from 2006, 
mostly due to significant decreases in air 
emissions of hydrochloric acid, hydrogen 
fluoride, and sulfuric acid – which 
normally comprise about three-quarters of 
all TRI releases from our coal-fired plants. 
Start-ups of several sulfur dioxide scrub-
bers in 2007 and lower chlorine content 
coal at some stations dramatically reduced 
acid emissions. Increased use of nitrogen 
oxides controls at several Carolinas stations 
also helped reduce sulfuric acid releases, 
as did continuing sulfur trioxide mitigation 
efforts at Midwest stations.

Coal combustion products primarily 
include fly ash, bottom ash, gypsum and 
a lime/sulfur compound resulting from 
sulfur dioxide removal. We market these 
products for beneficial use in applications 
such as concrete, structural fills, cement, 
wallboard and other construction products, 
and we dispose of the rest in company 
ponds or landfills. We are on track to 
meet our goal to increase beneficial use 
(excluding structural fills) 10 percent by 
2012 compared to 2007.

Of the 16 citations in 2008, no fines 
were associated with 12. The 2008 
and 2007 total fines/penalties figures 
include proposed fines of $85,020 and 
$150,000, respectively, which have not 
been resolved.

Oil spills include releases of lubricating oil 
from generating stations, leaks from trans-
formers or damage caused by third parties 
(typically due to auto accidents).

e n V i R o n m e n t a l   p e R f o R m a n C e   m e t R i C s

29

Q u a l i t y   w o R k f o R C e

CHALLENGES
•	 Continue	improving	employee	and	contractor	safety

OPPORTUNITIES
•	 Become	the	leader	in	safe	work	practices

•	 Compete	with	other	companies	and	industries	for	the	best	talent

•	 Maintain	our	reputation	as	a	preferred	employer	and	attract	top	talent

•	 Manage	a	diverse,	multi-generational	workforce

•	 Leverage	employee	ideas	to	unlock	innovation	and	improve	our	business

2008 HIGHLIGHTS
•	 Achieved	goal	of	no	work-related	employee	or	contractor	fatalities	
and	improved	total	incident	case	rate	by	8%	compared	to	2007

•	 Established	additional	partnerships	with	higher	educational	 

institutions to attract future workers

•	 Expanded	employee	wellness	options,	employee	resource	 

groups and development programs

MAkING SAFETY PERSONAL
We use two key indicators to  
measure safety performance:
•  Number of employee and 

contractor fatalities

•  Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) – 

the number of recordable incidents 
per 100 employees (based on 
Occupational Safety and health 
Administration criteria)

In 2008, we achieved our best year 
ever for employee safety by exceeding 
the company’s goals for both of these 
measures. We had no work-related 
employee or contractor fatalities in 2008. 
Our TICR for the year was 1.15, which 
represented an 8 percent improvement 
over 2007. Although our crews worked 
in some very hazardous conditions – 
including the aftermath of hurricane 
Ike in September – we ended the year 
with 22 fewer recordable incidents than 
in 2007. The company recorded two 
serious employee injuries (severe enough 
to require hospitalization overnight for 
reasons other than for observation), 
compared to 11 in 2007.

When leaders simplify and personalize 
safety, performance improvements often 

follow. for example, Senior Vice President 
of Regulated fossil and hydroelectric 
Generation Barry Pulskamp launched a 
“Safety Never Sleeps” campaign in August 
2008. Every night, Pulskamp reviewed 
the day’s safety performance and sent 
an e-mail to his team of nearly 2,000 
employees. Each safety message focused 
on preventing injuries by reinforcing 
positive behaviors, recognizing individual 
efforts, identifying best practices and 
sharing lessons learned. Pulskamp would 
not go to bed until he sent a safety update, 
ensuring that his e-mail was the first thing 
employees saw when they started work 
the next day.

Our Power Delivery group launched a 
“Six-Day Safety Challenge” in 2008 when 
safety metrics indicated a decline in perfor-
mance from the prior year. A review of the 
numbers indicated that if the 4,000-plus 
workforce could go six days without a 

recordable incident, Power 
Delivery could return to a 
path of continuous improve-
ment toward the goal of 
zero injuries. Power Delivery 
leaders asked employees 
to hold themselves – and each other – 
accountable as they worked toward a  
goal of zero injuries for six straight days. 
After three tries, they succeeded. The 
group’s injury rate for April matched the 
best monthly performance since 2006. 
And, the team went on to set a new  
record in May 2008, cutting the April 
injury benchmark in half.

The focus on making safety personal 
also extends to our international opera-
tions. In 2008, Duke Energy International 
employees adopted a set of Safety 
Behavior Standards that individualize the 
requirements for a safe and productive 
work environment.

safety at duke eneRgy

Work-Related Fatalities

Total Incident Case Rate (TICR)1

Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR)2

2006

4

1.51

0.35

2007

2

1.25

0.26

2008 

0

1.15

0.28

1  Number of recordable incidents per 100 employees (based on OShA criteria)
2   Number of lost work day cases per 100 employees

30

3SAFETY FIRST
(Left	to	right)	Matt	Mullenix,	Terry	
Wehrmeyer	and	John	Thompson,	line	
specialists	in	Terre	Haute,	Ind.,	go	
over safety plans before starting work 
for the day.

ACCOLADES FROM OTHERS
Parenting magazine named  
Duke Energy to its list of the top 40 
family-friendly companies in North 
Carolina for our part-time employee 
benefits program. Companies were 
judged based on their policies and 
programs with regard to health 
benefits, education assistance, 
family care options, leave policies 
and flexible work options.  

for the sixth 
consecutive year, 
Duke Energy 
Egenor – one of 
our Latin American subsidiaries – 
was recognized as one of the best 
companies to work for in Peru. 
The Great Place to Work Institute 
(GPWI) acknowledged the compa-
ny’s excellent working conditions 
and career development path.

And, for the fourth time in recent 
years, Duke Energy Brazil made 
the list of “100 Best 
Companies to Work for 
in Brazil.” This recogni-
tion comes from GPWI 
in partnership with 
Época magazine.

LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
Employee feedback is gathered regularly 
to assist and inform local and corporate 
leaders. In 2008, we conducted a sample 
survey with a cross-section of employees. 
Sixty-nine percent responded to the survey, 
exceeding the 65 percent return rate for 
companies Duke Energy benchmarks 
against. Among the key findings:
•  Employee understanding of the 

company’s strategy, goals and direction 
increased eight percentage points from 
2007. This was an area of manage-
ment attention from last year’s survey.
•  Seventy-six percent of the respondents 
expressed a sense of commitment to 
Duke Energy, up six percentage points 
from 2007.

•  Compared to 2007, more employees 
felt confident in the ability of senior 
management to make the “decisions 
necessary to ensure the future success 
of Duke Energy.”

•  Compensation and rewards are areas 
for improvement, according to those 
who responded to the survey.
•  for the first time, the 2008 survey 
probed employee perceptions of  

Duke Energy’s performance in sustain-
ability. More than two-thirds of the 
respondents agreed that the company 
is working hard to “strike the right 
balance between economic, environ-
mental and social factors influencing 
our business.”

Company leaders regularly meet with 
employees to update them on company 
performance and answer questions. 
These “Open forums” are held in various 
company locations and typically include 
call-in capabilities to broaden employee 
participation.  

In 2008, Jim Turner, president and 
chief operating officer of u.S. franchised 
Electric and Gas, visited with more than 
5,000 employees at various locations and 
power plants to talk about the company’s 
goals and values and listen to employee 
concerns. To continue the dialogue, he 
started an internal blog covering topics 
such as climate change, safety, storm 
response and employee development.

Q U A L I T Y   W O R k F O R C E

31

WORkING TOGETHER TO SERVE CUSTOMERS
(Left to right): Doe-D Mebane, business development and research specialist; Geoff Vontz, mechanic operator I; Bill Phillips, senior recruiting specialist; Scot 
Kellet, technical skills specialist; John Wallace, customer service representative. Duke Energy employees work in offices, in power plants and on electric and 
natural gas crews. They all play important roles in keeping the lights on or gas flowing for our millions of residential, business and industrial customers.

TALENT MANAGEMENT IN TOUGH ECONOMIC TIMES

A:   We want to make sure we attract individ-
uals whose skills match our changing 
business needs and who have the core 
values that have been our bedrock. Having 
diverse voices and opinions increases our 
chances of coming up with truly innova-
tive solutions to complex energy problems. 
Candidates	for	jobs	in	power	generation	
25 years ago worked at fossil, nuclear or 
hydroelectric stations. Today’s candidates 
have those opportunities plus new ones, 
such as working in our renewables or smart 
grid	areas.	I	think	these	expanded	opportu-
nities make it a very exciting time to be in 
the energy industry.

Q:  What’s changed about the way prospective 
employees evaluate a job opportunity?

A:   Today’s entry-level employees judge 

prospective employers in a different light 
than their predecessors. They look for 
companies that have a meaningful mission, 
are good corporate citizens and strive to 
operate	in	a	sustainable	way	–	things	I	
believe	Duke	Energy	offers.

Q:  What are examples of new, innovative 

approaches to attracting talent? 

  We have dedicated a number of part-time 
energy technician positions for students 
who are pursuing an associate degree. This 
arrangement enables them to get classroom 
instruction and on-the-job training at the 
same	time.	It	makes	the	education	more	
affordable for the students and shortens 
their	learning	curve	in	the	workplace.	It	
also allows both parties to determine if 
there’s	a	good	fit	for	a	job.	These	benefits	

are especially important given  
the number of retiring technicians 
we’ll need to replace over the next  
few years.

Q:  Has the economic recession 

resulted in fewer retirements than 
you expected? If so, how have you 
adjusted your workforce strategy?

A:   Yes, we’ve started to see a slight 

decline in the number of retirements. 
As	a	result,	we’ve	slowed	down	–	but	
not	eliminated	–	our	replacement	
hiring. This unexpected develop-
ment, which is obviously tied to the 
economic downturn, has allowed us 
to focus on hiring talent in the most 
critical areas. We’re also pursuing 
ways to better engage and retain our 
current	workforce.	Even	though	times	
are tough, that doesn’t mean our 
talented employees are without other 
options	for	employment.	Good	people	
always have alternatives.

Q:  At the end of 2008, Duke Energy 
announced a decision to freeze 
pay for much of its workforce 
for the coming year. How was 
that announcement received by 
employees?  

Everybody	has	a	story	about	a	
neighbor, friend or family member 
who has suffered from the downturn.  
We announced the freeze on  
merit increases with the intent of 
avoiding	staff	reductions,	and	I	 
think employees understand that 
rationale and appreciate it.

Q & A

JennifeR weBeR
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND  
ChIEf huMAN RESOuRCES OffICER

In	the	following	Q&A,	Jennifer	Weber,	 
Duke	Energy’s	senior	vice	president	and	chief	
human	resources	officer,	shares	her	insights	
on sustainability and managing talent in 
challenging economic times.

Q:  How does the human resources function 
impact Duke Energy’s commitment to 
sustainability? 

A:		 Our	workforce	is	fundamental	to	our	efforts	
to be more sustainable as a company, and 
HR	plays	a	big	role	in	how	we	attract	and	
manage our talent. Talent is a key differen-
tiator and enabler of long-term success.

Q:  How has the nature of employment  

opportunities at Duke Energy changed  
in recent years?

32

	
ATTRACTING, DEVELOPING AND 
RETAINING EMPLOYEES
At Duke Energy, we seek innovative 
ways to attract new talent and provide 
our employees opportunities for profes-
sional growth. here are some of the ways 
we attract, educate and develop our 
workforce:

Developing Tomorrow’s Leaders
We offer a variety of leadership develop-
ment opportunities for employees. In 
2008, we launched new programs to 
equip recently promoted supervisors for 
success in their role. More than 100 
supervisors have completed the programs, 
gaining knowledge on business expec-
tations, values, employment laws and 
supervisory skills and tools. Additionally, 
nearly 60 mid-level managers have taken 
part in a strategic development program 
designed for Duke Energy leaders at the 
university of North Carolina at Chapel 
hill. As part of the program, Jim Rogers 
issues a “CEO Challenge” to participants 
to develop unique solutions to some of the 
most urgent issues facing our business.

Employee Groups
In 2008, we established our newest 
employee resource group – Latinos united 
Cultivating Energy and Service (LuCES). 
These employee resource groups (ERGs) 
offer training and networking opportuni-
ties for employees with common interests 
or experiences. for example, members 
of our Leadership Development Network 
build leadership skills through mentoring 
opportunities, networking sessions and 
specialized training. 

ERGs also help reinforce ties to the 
community and attract diverse candidates 
for future employment. for example, 
members of Duke Energy’s African 
American Network often mentor high 
school students and award merit and 
need-based scholarships for college. 
And, a chapter of our Business Women’s 
Network holds a clothing drive each year 
benefitting low-income women who need 
professional attire for work. These activities 
strengthen ties to the community and open 
new doors for those who might one day 
join our ranks.

Our employees are also involved in local 
chapters of national groups. Women in 
Nuclear (WIN) helps female employees 
broaden their knowledge of the nuclear 
power industry. WIN members frequently 
serve their communities by judging science 
fairs, conducting engineering-related 
workshops or teaching children about 
nuclear power. Similarly, North American 
Young Generation in Nuclear provides 
development and outreach opportunities 
for young professionals in the nuclear field.

Building a Talent Pipeline
Partnerships between Duke Energy 
and technical and community colleges 
also help us recruit new employees. In 
these programs, students learn valuable 
skills for the energy industry, and we 
develop a pipeline of trained technicians. 
Additionally, the skills these students 
acquire reduce training time and costs 
for those we bring on board. Examples 
include:

•  A program Duke Energy supports 
at York Technical College in South 
Carolina prepares students for entry-
level work as power line technicians 
with classroom, lab and field instruc-
tion. A similar Duke Energy-sponsored 
program is being developed at Gateway 
Community and Technical College in 
the Greater Cincinnati area.

•  Instructors at the Catawba Nuclear 
Station in South Carolina recently 
helped launch a radiation protection 
technology program at Spartanburg 
Community College – the first of its 
kind in the nation. This program 
meets a company need for technical 
personnel and provides new job 
opportunities. Duke Energy hired the 
majority of students who graduated 
from the program in May 2008.

Our Commercial Associates Program is 
another strategic hiring initiative that 
recruits graduates from MBA programs  
and rotates them through different depart-
ments and business units. These associ-
ates develop a better understanding of  
the company that will serve them well  
in future leadership positions.

The Web is useful in attracting quality 
candidates for employment. In 2008, we 
expanded the number of avenues we use 
for online recruitment. We also enhanced 
our job application system to allow individ-
uals to register their interest in working for 
Duke Energy, even if an applicable position 
is not yet available.

jAMES B. DUkE AWARDS
Each year, we present the James B. Duke Award to employees who make exceptional contributions to the company and exemplify our 
values. The award – Duke Energy’s highest employee honor – is named after noted industrialist and visionary “Buck” Duke, one of our 
company’s founders. Winners are nominated and selected by their peers. The winners of the James B. Duke Awards for accomplishments 
in 2008 can be found at www.duke-energy.com/about-us/awards.asp.

Q U A L I T Y   W O R k F O R C E

33

woRkfoRCe statistiCs

Full and Part-Time Employees

• united States

• Duke Energy International

Collective Bargaining Unit/Union Members as Percent of Workforce

• u.S. (Members of a Collective Bargaining unit)

• Duke Energy International (Members of a union) 

united states woRkfoRCe demogRaphiCs*

Ethnic Diversity as Percent of Workforce

• White

• Black/African American

• hispanic/Latino

• Asian/Pacific Islander

• American Indian/Alaska Nation

• Not Specified

Females/Minorities as Percent of Workforce/Management

• females as Percent of Workforce

• females as Percent of Management 

•	Minorities as Percent of Workforce

•	Minorities as Percent of Management

As of 12/31/07

As of 12/31/08

18,117

17,045

1,072

25.5%

30.2%

86.6%

11.3%

0.9%

0.8%

0.3%

0.2%

22.6%

17.2%

13.3%

8.0%

18,548

17,429

1,119

25.2%

27.4%

86.7%

11.2%

0.9%

0.8%

0.3%

0.1%

22.6%

15.5%

13.3%

7.9%

* Ethnic diversity and gender data are not captured for Duke Energy International employees.

TURNOVER STATISTICS
The electric utility industry has lower employee turnover than other industries,  
a trend that has been reinforced by the economic downturn.

u.s. employee tuRnoVeR summaRy

Reason

Severance package volunteers

Resignations

Retirements

Employees who were notified they did not have a position in the 
company and elected to leave with a severance package1

Dismissals

Total Turnover

Total u.S. employees

Turnover as a percent of workforce

2007

2008

405

244

218

114

46

1,027

17,045

6.0%

210

304

190

18

96

818

17,429

4.7%

1  Employees whose jobs were affected by restructuring were offered an option to transfer into a “transition pool” 

for a six-month period, during which they could look for another job.

34

kEEPING THE POWER FLOWING
Travis Tate, transmission coordinator, 
helps manage power flow over the nearly 
21,000 miles of transmission lines.

We recognize that the workspace of the future must 
be	flexible,	efficient,	healthy	and	sustainable.

DESIGNING THE WORkPLACE  
OF THE FUTURE
We are planning for fundamental changes 
to the workplace, the workforce and the 
way work gets done in the future. Our 
planning includes more than new technol-
ogies and eco-friendly buildings. It focuses 
on designing a work environment to meet 
the evolving needs of our workforce.

We currently have four generations of 
employees in the workplace. Some 
employees have worked for the company 
for decades, while others have joined only 
recently. Some travel frequently, while 
others report to the same site every day. 
Many are increasingly using technology, 
particularly mobile devices. 

These considerations are helping us 
identify the diverse work styles and needs 
we must plan for in the years ahead. 
for example, employees whose duties 
primarily involve independent problem-
solving require dedicated work space, 
while those who work in teams need a 
more collaborative environment. By identi-
fying these and other work styles, we avoid 
designing a one-size-fits-all approach.

We recognize that the workspace of the 
future must be flexible, efficient, healthy 
and sustainable. As we transition into 
new facilities or renovate existing ones, 
we focus on using space efficiently and 
effectively, minimizing our environmental 
impact and maximizing our employees’ 
ability to be productive. 

for example, office space in our new 
corporate headquarters in Charlotte, N.C., 
is being designed using Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
criteria so that it is energy efficient, highly 
adaptable and suits a variety of work 
styles. The LEED system was developed 
by the u.S. Green Building Council, a 
coalition of which Duke Energy is a corpo-
rate member, that is working to promote 
environmentally responsible and healthy 
work environments. The new building will 
feature advanced energy management  
and water efficiency systems, abundant 
natural light, and highly configurable  
and ergonomic furniture. We’ll continue  
to implement new design and environ-
mental features in the years to come  
as we improve all of our locations.

THE NEW DUkE ENERGY CENTER
Our	new	corporate	headquarters	
is being built using Leadership in 
Energy	and	Environmental	Design	
(LEED)	criteria	recognized	by	the	
U.S.	Green	Building	Council.
(Illustration	by	Risden	McElroy)

LIVE WELL PROGRAM PROMOTES EMPLOYEE HEALTH
Our Live Well program helps employees improve their health and wellness, and supplement their healthcare spending account at the same 
time. Employees who participate in healthy activities, attend seminars, complete online courses or take part in quarterly fitness challenges 
earn points toward contributions to their healthcare spending accounts. Company contributions to these accounts range from $100 
to $250, depending on the number of points earned. At year-end 2008, more than 3,000 employees were participating in Live Well, 
including 800 new participants since mid-year.

Q U A L I T Y   W O R k F O R C E

35

s t R o n g   C o m m u n i t i e s

CHALLENGES
•	 Encourage	economic	development	during	a	recession

•	 Help	the	communities	we	serve	through	the	economic	downturn

OPPORTUNITIES
•	 Use	our	customer	and	community	programs	to	strengthen	the	regions	
we serve, including new energy infrastructure like the smart grid

2008 HIGHLIGHTS
•	 Offered	average	retail	electric	rates	in	each	of	our	five	 

states that were below the national average

•	 Helped	attract	roughly	$3	billion	in	capital	investment	 

and	12,000	jobs	in	our	service	areas

•	 Be	a	catalyst	to	help	transform	regional	economies	for	the	 

21st	century	

•	 Support	the	states	we	serve	in	their	economic	stimulus	plans

•	 Began	deployment	of	the	smart	grid	

•	 Contributed	more	than	$30	million	to	our	communities	

PROMOTING ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT
Duke Energy’s success is directly tied to 
the communities we serve. We work with 
economic development officials in our five-
state service territory to help attract new 
industry and business. We are helping to 
lead economic development efforts focused 
on energy, and are working with state and 
local officials to attract or expand indus-
tries such as aerospace, data manage-
ment, plastics and life sciences.

Despite the economic challenges of 2008, 
Duke Energy’s economic development 
specialists helped state, regional and local 
government officials attract $2.97 billion 
in capital investments and 12,164 new 
jobs to the five states we serve. While the 
results fell short of our target of 14,400 
jobs, we exceeded our goal of $2.8 billion 
in capital investment. These results reflect 
new capital investments and jobs; they 
are not net results that take into account 
business closures and job losses due to 
the economic downturn.

With energy prices a key consideration 
for economic development, we work with 
companies and local officials to provide the 
information they need to evaluate location 
or expansion options. for example:
•  Competitive energy costs helped 

persuade BMW to expand its manufac-
turing facility in Spartanburg, S.C.,  
to produce the X3 sports activity 
vehicle. Construction of BMW’s new 
1.2 million-square-foot facility began  
in the spring of 2008.

•  Cincinnati is the global flavor 
headquarters for Swiss-based 
Givaudan, the world’s largest maker 
of flavors and fragrances, and the 
site of its North American research 
and culinary center. The company is 
expanding its flavor manufacturing 
plant in Boone County, Ky. This  
project will result in $25 million of  
new capital investment.

•  American Titanium Works, a Chicago-
based company, announced plans  
in 2008 to invest $422 million in  
a titanium mini-mill in Laurens  
County, S.C. 

BMW ExPANSION
BMW chose Spartanburg, S.C., for its 
first full manufacturing plant outside 
of Germany and began construction 
on an expansion in 2008. (Photo by 
fred Rollison)

•  EnerDel Inc. will become a Duke 
Energy Indiana customer when its 
new facility goes into operation in 
Noblesville. The company assembles 
lithium-ion battery packs for use in 
hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric 
vehicles.

DUkE ENERGY STAYS IN TOP 10 FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

In September 2008, Site Selection magazine named Duke Energy to its annual list of top 10 utilities in economic develop-
ment for 2007. This is the 10th consecutive year we’ve been recognized for our efforts to encourage and attract business 

expansion in our service areas. The magazine used new capital investments and new jobs created as two criteria in determining its list.

36

4BRINGING SUSTAINABILITY  
TO COLLEGE CAMPUSES
Duke Energy lent its sustainability exper-
tise to colleges and universities at two 
key events in 2008. We teamed with 
The Duke Endowment, a private founda-
tion established in 1924 by Duke Energy 
co-founder James B. Duke, to host the 
Carolinas higher Education Sustainable 
Energy Summit in October. This event 
marked the first in a series of forums 
designed to help colleges and universities 
make their campuses more energy efficient 
and environmentally sound. Duke Energy 
shared information on renewable energy, 
clean transportation, energy measurement 
and “green” lighting solutions. 

We also served as a major sponsor of the 
biennial conference of the Association 
for the Advancement of Sustainability in 
higher Education held in Raleigh, N.C., 
in November. This event drew more than 
1,700 representatives from colleges and 
universities in 48 states and Canada. 

HELPING STUDENTS  
‘GET ENERGY SMART’
We recently teamed with Scholastic, a 
household name in education, to teach 
children about energy efficiency, renewable 
power and environmental stewardship. 
Our new ‘Get Energy Smart’ program will 
initially target third and fourth-graders in 
Ohio, then expand to include children in 
other age groups. We plan to introduce 
the program in the Carolinas, Indiana and 
Kentucky later this year.

The Get Energy Smart program offers 
children opportunities for interactive, 
hands-on learning. for example, students 
who conduct an online energy audit of 
their home will receive a personalized 
report and a free energy efficiency starter 
kit. The kit contains tips and items such 
as compact fluorescent light bulbs (CfLs) 
that can help lower their home’s overall 
energy bill.

LEARNING OUTDOORS
Our Lee Steam Station in South Carolina 
provides an outdoor learning environment 
for teachers at Palmetto Middle School to 
reinforce lessons in science and environ-
mental stewardship. Our local partnership 
was so successful that South Carolina 
education officials announced plans in 
late 2008 to replicate the outdoor learning 
approach throughout the state.

USING DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
Doing business with a diverse network 
of suppliers – including minority, veteran 
or women-owned organizations – helps 
encourage competition and spread the 
benefits of economic development. Duke 
Energy’s spending for goods and services 
from these suppliers totaled $323 million 
in 2008, a 40 percent increase over 
2007. This growth included a significant 
increase in fuel spending with diverse 
suppliers, partially due to rising prices. 
Even without these fuel purchases, our 
spending with diverse suppliers in 2008 
was still 10 percent higher than 2007.

REACHING OUT TO THE 
HEARING-IMPAIRED
Duke Energy won the 2008 “Excellence in 
Accessibility Award” from the Community 
Services for the Deaf in Cincinnati, 
Ohio. This award is presented to an area 
organization that provides a welcoming 
and supportive venue for customers who 
are deaf or hard of hearing. Three Duke 
Energy employees – Becky Brunner, Paula 
Everett and LaVerne Thomas – have been 
providing sign language services to the 
hearing-impaired for more than a decade. 
In addition to assisting customers with 
hearing disabilities, these employees trans-
late the spoken word into sign language 
at company and community events 
throughout the year.

A HAIR-RAISING ExPERIENCE
A	young	visitor	to	the	World	of	Energy	
uses	a	Van	de	Graff	generator,	a	device	
that harmlessly demonstrates the 
effect of static electricity.

WORLD OF ENERGY 
CELEBRATES 40 YEARS
In	1969,	a	typical	home	cost	
$25,000.	You	could	buy	a	new	
car	for	$2,500	and	fill	it	up	
for	35	cents	per	gallon.	Neil	
Armstrong	walked	on	the	moon	
and	Joe	Namath	took	the	New	
York	Jets	to	the	Super	Bowl.	
1969	was	also	the	year	Oconee	
Nuclear	Station’s	visitor	center	
opened	to	the	public.	Initially	
named	the	Keowee-Toxaway	
Visitor	Center	for	the	two	rivers	 
in the region, the center 
welcomed	250,000	visitors	in	
its	first	full	year	of	operation.	In	
1985,	the	name	was	changed	 
to	the	World	of	Energy.

The	center	celebrates	its	40th	
anniversary	in	2009,	making	it	
the second-oldest continuously 
operating nuclear power plant 
visitor center in the country. 
Since	its	opening,	more	than	
three million visitors from all 
50	states	and	countless	foreign	
countries have toured the  
World	of	Energy	to	learn	about	
nuclear power.

S T R O N G   C O M M U N I T I E S

37

2008 COMMUNITY GIVING SUMMARY
Giving back to the community is both a corporate value and a defining element of our 
company culture. With the economic downturn, we believe it is more important than  
ever to contribute to the communities we serve. 

Each year, we total all of the contributions made by Duke Energy, including The Duke 
Energy foundation ($17.5 million in 2008), other cash contributions and in-kind gifts 
and services ($2.4 million); and the cash contributions and the value of our employees 
and retirees’ volunteer time ($10.2 million). Charitable giving from The Duke Energy 
foundation, Duke Energy Corporation and its employees and retirees totaled more than 
$30 million in 2008. This figure is in line with our total charitable giving in 2007 and 
2006, which were $31 million and $29 million, respectively.

2008 GRANTS BY THE  
DUkE ENERGY FOUNDATION
Grants by The Duke Energy foundation are 
awarded by regional contributions councils 
to support three areas of funding: 
•  Community vitality – 
50% ($7.9 million) 
•  Economic development, 

including educational initiatives –  
32% ($5.0 million)

•  Environment and energy efficiency – 

18% ($2.8 million)

We also compare our charitable giving to industry benchmarks. The 2008 total of nearly 
$20 million in foundation and corporate giving is on par with industry benchmarks of  
1 percent of pre-tax net income.

Matching gifts and volunteer grants  
for employees and retirees totaled  
$1.8 million.

2008|2009 FOUNDATION  
GRANT HIGHLIGHTS
•  In 2008, Duke Energy, its employees 
and retirees contributed over $5  
million to united Way agencies in  
the u.S. As a result of our commit-
ment, Duke Energy Carolinas was 
awarded the Corporate Spirit Award 
and Duke Energy Ohio received the  
Top 25 Award from the united Way  
of Greater Cincinnati.

•  To help ease the economic hardship 

faced by many in our five retail states, 
The Duke Energy foundation contrib-
uted an extra $800,000 to low-income 
energy assistance heating funds in 
January 2009. These programs aid all 
residents who are eligible for assis-
tance in these regions – not just Duke 
Energy customers. funds are distrib-
uted through local community action 
agencies, which determine eligibility.
•  At the end of 2008, we announced a 
partnership with Mecklenburg Citizens 
for Public Education to implement the 
New Leaders for New Schools program 
in Charlotte, N.C. This six-year initia-
tive will help Charlotte-Mecklenburg 

Schools recruit and develop more  
than 50 new principals to lead high-
need schools.

•  Duke Energy Ohio pledged support 
to the Cincinnati uSA Partnership  
to support regional economic develop-
ment initiatives, minority business 
expansion, and a biotechnical  
business “incubator.”

In addition to charitable giving of over  
$30 million in 2008, Duke Energy 
invested over $4 million in our communi-
ties in support of regulatory agreements 
and other business initiatives:
•  Duke Energy Carolinas shared its bulk 
power marketing (BPM) profits through 
a series of innovative programs with 
industrial customers, economic devel-
opers and public assistance agencies. 
Contributions from BPM in 2008 
totaled over $2.23 million. This figure 
included $650,000 for low-income 
customer programs such as Share 
the Warmth, Cooling Assistance and 
fan-heat Relief, and approximately 
$1.58 million for the support of educa-
tional initiatives in South Carolina 

through AdvanceSC. While the  
majority of these dollars provided 
services in 2008, a portion is held  
in community funds to be distributed  
in coming years. 

•  Low-income energy assistance 
programs in Ohio (heatShare), 
Kentucky (WinterCare) and Indiana 
(helping hand) received over 
$748,000 from Duke Energy and  
close to $222,000 from employees 
and customer contributions. Programs 
for low-income customers in the 
Carolinas – like Share the Warmth, 
Cooling Assistance and fan-heat 
Relief – are funded from a variety 
of sources, including customer and 
employee contributions (which 
totaled close to $725,000), BPM 
profit sharing and The Duke Energy 
foundation.

•  As part of the Catawba-Wateree 

Comprehensive Relicensing Agreement 
in the Carolinas, we invested more 
than $1.3 million to preserve archeo-
logical resources, improve water 
use and management, and enhance 
aquatic habitat and fish populations.

38

VOLUNTEERISM
While volunteerism is a year-round 
commitment at Duke Energy, we 
conduct an annual Global Service 
Event (GSE) to encourage and recog-
nize community involvement. One of 
the unique aspects of the GSE is that 
it’s a grassroots effort. Employees and 
retirees identify needs in their own 
communities and provide leadership, 
from volunteer recruitment to project 
management. The Duke Energy 
foundation supports these activities 
with grants for project supplies and 
materials.

During the 2008 GSE, approximately 
3,800 employees and retirees spent 
more than 14,000 hours participating 
in about 500 projects in almost 
130 communities. Their efforts 
assisted more than 300 charitable 
organizations.

Supporting state-sponsored “Big 
Sweep” programs is another annual 
tradition at Duke Energy. The purpose 
of Big Sweep is to rid lakes, streams, 
waterways and shorelines of litter. 
Approximately 520 Duke Energy 
employees and local community 
volunteers collected more than 45 
tons of trash during Big Sweep events 
in North Carolina and South Carolina.

In Brazil, Duke Energy supported 
“Cleaning the Paranapanema,” 
organized by the Paranapanema  
River Environmental Defense 
Association. Our employees cleaned 
up a 2.5-mile stretch of the river in 
Sao Paulo. Initially a volunteer project 
sponsored by Duke Energy Brazil,  
the cleanup effort has grown into a 
major community initiative.

HARD WORkERS, ON  
AND OFF THE jOB 
Aaron Daniels, lineperson A in 
Milford, Ohio, helped with the 
Extreme Makeover: home Edition 
project in Cincinnati.

VOLUNTEERS GO  
TO ExTREMES
Duke Energy was a major  
sponsor for two of ABC-TV’s 
“Extreme Makeover: home 
Edition” projects in 2008.  
More than 400 employees  
volunteered for the projects,  
which took place in Cincinnati, 
Ohio and Charlotte, N.C. They  
did construction work, moved 
furniture, cleaned the homes,  
and served refreshments to  
volunteers. Duke Energy also 
made sure the homes were 
equipped with solar hot-water 
systems, energy-efficient 
windows, high-efficiency heating 
and cooling, upgraded insula-
tion and ENERGY STAR®-rated 
appliances.

RiChaRd “stiCk” williams
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, ENTERPRISE 
fIELD SERVICES AND PRESIDENT,  
ThE DuKE ENERGY fOuNDATION

“We strengthen the communi-
ties	we	serve	through	financial	
support, volunteerism and 
civic	leadership.	Our	commit-
ment to our communities is 
demonstrated by the additional 
$800,000	we	contributed	to	
low-income heating assistance 
funds	in	early	2009.	No	less	
important, though, are the 
efforts of employees who take 
time out of their lives to serve 
others in need.”

BRINGING CLEAN ENERGY  
TO THE DEVELOPING WORLD
Duke Energy is a member of e8, an 
organization founded in 1992 to promote 
sustainable energy development in the 
world’s emerging nations. The 10 members 
of e8 are leading electricity companies from 
the G8 nations – the u.S., united Kingdom, 
Canada, Germany, france, Italy, Russia 
and Japan. The e8 companies develop 
projects that bring clean energy to some of 
the 2 billion people around the world who 
still have no access to electricity. Training 
programs are also developed to ensure 
these projects can eventually be turned  
over to, and managed by, the residents in 
these regions.

S T R O N G   C O M M U N I T I E S

39

MEASURING IMPACT: TWO VIEWS

There is a trend in philanthropy  
to measure the impact of giving 
beyond a tally of the dollars. What 
real results were achieved? What 
impact was made?   

This year, we introduce you to two 
leaders of nonprofit organizations  
that have been long-term partners  
of Duke Energy: 
•  Jock Pitts is president of People 
Working Cooperatively (PWC). 
PWC offers home repair and 
energy conservation services for 
low-income individuals in the 
Greater Cincinnati area in Ohio 
and Kentucky.

•  Carol hardison is president of 

Crisis Assistance Ministry (CAM) 
in Charlotte, N.C. CAM provides 
emergency financial assistance, 
clothing and household items  
to those facing financial 
hardships. CAM also distributes 
funds from Duke Energy’s Share 
the Warmth program to help  
heat the homes of low-income 
families during winter.

These Q&As with Jock and Carol 
speak to the real results from  
philanthropy – the lives changed,  
the neighbors helped and the 
communities strengthened.

these people money and allowing  
them to stay safely in their homes. 

Q:  How did Duke Energy and PWC work 
together after Hurricane Ike struck the 
Midwest in September 2008?

A:		 Duke	Energy	gave	PWC	a	significant	grant	
within days of the storm to help with 
immediate home repairs for those in the 
greatest need. The company’s swift action 
speaks	volumes;	Duke’s	first	concern	after	
getting power restored was about helping 
customers recover.

After	the	storm,	we	encountered	people	in	
the	community	who	had	very	significant	
safety issues on their property as a result 
of	storm	damage.	Many	of	the	customers	
PWC	helped	were	elderly,	and	many	were	
disabled. Nearly all of them were afraid 
and	seemed	at	a	loss	for	what	to	do.	I	think	
it was reassuring for them to have experts 
from	PWC	show	up	at	their	door	to	help.	
Duke	Energy	made	that	happen.

Q:  What’s next for the PWC/Duke Energy 

partnership?

A:		 PWC	recently	signed	an	agreement	with	
Duke	Energy	to	provide	energy	conserva-
tion	services	outside	Ohio	and	Kentucky	
for	the	first	time.	Low-income	Duke	Energy	
customers	in	the	Carolinas	and	Indiana	
will	now	have	access	to	PWC’s	energy	
conservation	services.	It’s	all	part	of	the	
plan to repair our communities one home 
at a time.

Q & A

JoCk pitts
PRESIDENT,  
PEOPLE WORKING COOPERATIVELY

Q:  How does Duke Energy contribute  

to PWC’s work in the community?

A:		 Duke	Energy	primarily	supports	our	

energy	conservation	efforts.	PWC’s	typical	
customer	earns	$13,000	a	year	in	house-
hold income. They want to stay in their 
homes, but they don’t have the means to 
keep up with repairs or make their homes 
energy	efficient.	Duke’s	financial	support	
lets us go in and make the improvement 
investments for them. 

Q:  How important is energy efficiency? 

A:		 Energy	efficiency	is	not	only	increasingly	
important; it’s become fundamental. The 
customers	that	PWC	serves	have	diffi-
cultly	affording	food	and	medicine.	Duke’s	
programs are wildly effective at saving 

40

	
The	partnership	between	Crisis	Assistance	
Ministry	and	Duke	Energy	contributes	to	a	
stronger and more sustainable community.

Q:  How has the economic downturn affected 

Crisis Assistance Ministry? 

A:		 We’re	seeing	a	40	percent	increase	in	the	

number of people coming to us for help. 
Many	of	the	families	who’ve	come	through	
our doors in recent months have been 
financially	devastated	by	the	loss	of	a	job	or	
other source of income, and they just can’t 
reduce	their	expenses	fast	enough.	Crisis	
Assistance	Ministry	provides	a	“safety	net”	
to	help	them	adjust	to	their	new	financial	
situation and often prevents them from 
becoming homeless. 

Q & A

CaRol haRdison
PRESIDENT,  
CRISIS ASSISTANCE MINISTRY

Q:  How does the relationship between Crisis 
Assistance Ministry and Duke Energy help 
the community?

A:   There is a tremendous upside to helping 

people avoid being evicted or having their 
power	cut	off.	Oftentimes,	it	helps	them	
keep their job and keep their kids in school. 
You’re helping them keep gas in their car, 
winter coats on their backs, a roof over 
their head, and lights on in their home. 

Q:  What does Crisis Assistance Ministry get 
out of its partnership with Duke Energy?

A:		 In	addition	to	the	funding	that	comes	

from	Share	the	Warmth	and	United	Way,	
we have a number of great volunteers 
who	work	for	Duke	Energy.	They’ve	done	
everything from sorting donated clothes to 
serving on our board of directors to offering 
specialized expertise, like marketing and 
business planning.

In	addition,	simply	having	our	name	 
associated	with	Duke	Energy	lends	
credibility	and	good	will.	In	this	part	of	
the	country,	the	first	thing	you	think	of	
when	you	hear	the	name	Duke	Energy	is	
the	100-plus-year	history	associated	with	
responsible economic development and 
making the region an enjoyable place to 
live, work and play.

Q:  What would the community be like without 

public-private partnerships? 

A:   Without partnerships like ours, the burden 
would shift to government and taxpayers.  
People	can’t	live	in	a	dark,	cold	home.	
People	who	are	not	taken	care	of	by	their	
community often end up in hospitals, jails 
and homeless shelters. This places a huge 
strain on the community.

Private/nonprofit	partnerships	have	a	 
way of taking “one plus one” and getting 
three.	Nonprofits	benefit	from	financial	
support, professional expertise and the 
credibility that results from being partners. 
On	the	corporate	side,	employees	love	
helping	the	community	and	find	it	very	
rewarding to see the instant results of  
their volunteer work.

S T R O N G   C O M M U N I T I E S

41

	
	
g o V e R n a n C e   a n d   t R a n s p a R e n C y

CHALLENGES
•	 Preserve	the	trust	of	our	stakeholders	at	a	time	when	trust	in	 

corporations has eroded

OPPORTUNITY
•	 Differentiate	Duke	Energy	for	its	strong	 

governance and transparency practices

•	 Maintain	our	strong	balance	sheet	despite	economic	uncertainties

2008 HIGHLIGHTS
•	 Provided	quarterly	dividend	payout	for	82nd	consecutive	year	

•	 Outperformed	S&P	500	Index	and	Philadelphia	Utility	Index

•	

Increased	transparency	on	a	number	of	energy	policy	issues,	
including climate change

SUSTAINABLE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
In a year when some companies were forced to close their doors, 
cut their dividends or lay off employees, we were reminded again 
that financial strength is a pillar of sustainability.  

Our financial performance was down in 2008, but we outper-
formed the overall markets. Duke Energy’s 2008 total shareholder 
return declined 21.7 percent, compared to a decline of 37.0 
percent for the S&P 500 and a decline of 27.2 percent for the 
Philadelphia utility Index. Duke Energy also paid a quarterly cash 
dividend on its common stock – for the 82nd consecutive year – 
and increased the quarterly dividend payment from 22 cents to 23 
cents per share.

During the unprecedented tightening of the credit and capital 
markets in 2008, our strong balance sheet allowed us to raise 
capital and maintain our liquidity. from Jan. 1, 2008, through 
Jan. 31, 2009, we issued approximately $4.5 billion of fixed-rate 
debt at a weighted-average rate of 6.05 percent. Additionally, we 

finanCial highlights (IN MILLIONS EXCEPT fOR PER-ShARE DATA)

Total Operating Revenues

$10,607

$12,720

$13,207

2006

2007

2008

Total Operating Expenses

Net Income

Earnings Per Share, Diluted

Dividends Per Share

Total Assets

Long-Term Debt Including Capital 
Leases, Less Current Maturities

$9,210

$1,863

$1.57

$1.26

$10,222

$10,765

$1,500

$1,362

$1.18

$0.86

$1.07

$0.90

$68,700

$49,686

$53,077

$18,118

$9,498

$13,250

*   See 2008 Duke Energy Summary Annual Report “2008 financial highlights”  

for detailed notes and explanations of figures above.

have maintained strong investment-grade credit ratings with a 
positive outlook from S&P and a stable outlook from Moody’s. We 
will continue to maintain our strong balance sheet and liquidity by 
aggressively managing costs.

BUSINESS ETHICS PUT DUkE ENERGY IN GOOD COMPANY

for the second consecutive year, Duke 
Energy was named one of the World’s  
Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere 
Institute. This list recognizes companies 
that demonstrate best practices in business 
ethics, global governance, compliance and 
corporate responsibility.

ALLIANCE FOR SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY
In 2008, Duke Energy joined more than a dozen other u.S. 
investor-owned electric companies to form the Electric utility 
Industry Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. The goal of the 
alliance is to work collaboratively with suppliers to reduce the 
environmental impacts of the products and services we use  
and advance sustainable business practices in the industry’s 
supply chain.

42

5EARNING STAkEHOLDER TRUST
The best way to earn trust is by 
operating with integrity. Trust is  
also built by transparency and clear, 
credible communications.

In addition to our regulatory filings 
and this Sustainability Report, here 
are a few examples of how we 
communicate with stakeholders: 
•  In September 2008, we published 
our Report to Shareholders on 
Climate Change, which summa-
rized information on the science 
of climate change, discussed our 
position on the issue and detailed 
our low-carbon business strategy. 
•  We have contributed to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) for the 
past six years. CDP is an indepen-
dent organization that works with 
companies and shareholders to 
assess the business risks and 
opportunities associated with 
climate change. We are also a 
founding member of The Climate 
Registry, a u.S., Canadian and 
Mexican organization dedicated 
to compiling accurate, complete, 
consistent, transparent and 
validated greenhouse gas 
emissions data from reporting 
entities.

•  The Duke Energy Web site 

includes our Code of Business 
Ethics, governance information, 
operating data, podcasts and other 
resources about our business and 
policy positions. Our site also 
includes a “Contact us” button for 
stakeholders to raise questions or 
submit comments.

POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT
We support our employees’ interest and involvement in politics through Voices In  
Politics (VIP), a grassroots network that educates employees on the political process,  
and DuKEPAC, a voluntary, nonpartisan political action committee.

DuKEPAC encourages participation in the political process and makes contributions 
to qualified candidates for public office. Administrative costs associated with operating 
DuKEPAC are paid by Duke Energy, as permitted by law. Employee contributions, all of 
which are voluntary, go to federal, state and local candidates. DuKEPAC is governed by  
a board of trustees comprised of company employees. Any DuKEPAC member may  
recommend candidates they believe deserve support, but decisions on which candidates 
receive contributions are made by the DuKEPAC board.

dukepaC ContRiButions – 2008

Local & Regional Office

State Office

Federal Office

Indiana

Kentucky

North Carolina

Ohio

Pennsylvania

South Carolina

Other States

Political Parties

Leadership PACs

National Parties

Other

Total

$0

$0

$0

$2,000

$0

$0

$0

$1,600

$0

$0

$0

$75,925

$14,500

$231,250

$46,650 

$5,000

$33,750

$0

$17,100

$14,000

$0

$1,750

$14,500

$4,000

$26,500

$31,000

$3,000

$24,000

$111,000

$0

$80,000

$37,000

$10,000

$3,600

$439,925

$341,000

GOVERNANCE RATINGS
A number of independent organizations evaluate corporate governance. While  
we do not set goals for each rating, we do use them for benchmarking purposes.

goVeRnanCe Ratings

Rating Organization

2006

2007

2008

Scale

The Corporate Library1

• TCL Rating

• Governance Risk Assessment

B

Low

RiskMetrics Group – Corporate Governance Quotient (GCQ)2

•	Index Ranking

•	Industry Ranking

GovernanceMetrics International3

• Overall Global

13.8

30.7

9.0

B

Low

91.1

93.6

9.5

B

Low

82.5

90.1

9.5

*A-f (no E)

*Low, Mod, high

0-100*

0-100*

0-10*

1  As of December 2008. Published with permission of The Corporate Library LLC.
2  As of December 2008. Published with permission of RiskMetrics Group.
3  As of December 2008. Published with permission of GovernanceMetrics International.

* Reflects best rating.

G O V E R N A N C E   A N D   T R A N S P A R E N C Y

43

STAkEHOLDERS

ExPECTATIONS

FULFILLMENTS

Customers

Employees

•  Reasonable costs
•  Reliable supply
•  Good customer service
•  Safe operations
•  Minimal environmental 

impacts

•  Energy efficiency advice
•  Reliable information about 
and prompt response to 
outages 

•  Community involvement

•  Safe workplace
•  Competitive pay and benefits
•  Open communications
•  Career development 

opportunities

•  fair and consistent treatment
•  Strong corporate reputation

Communities

•  Economic development
•  Involvement with 
local initiatives

•  Public safety
•  Employment opportunities
•  Volunteerism
•  Rapid service restoration

•  Strong management systems
•  Efficient cost-control practices
•  Business relations managers’ 

accessibility

•  Customer satisfaction surveys 
•  Environmental stewardship
•  Customer communication 
and Web site information

•  Volunteerism

•  Safe work practice 
policies and training

•  The Portal (online corporate 

information resource)

•  Career training and 

development

•  Benchmarking with 

industry peers

•  Open forums with executives 
•  Confidential ethics hotline
•  Community involvement

•  Business relations managers’ 
involvement in communities

•  Economic development 

assistance

•  Global Service Event and 
other volunteer efforts 

•  The Duke Energy 
foundation grants
•  Cooperative service 

restoration agreements  
with other utilities

STAkEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
AND COLLABORATION
Working with stakeholders helps us 
redefine our boundaries and find new 
solutions. for example, we partnered 
with other organizations in the u.S. 
Climate Action Partnership (uSCAP) 
to help create a “Blueprint for 
Legislative Action” that was presented 
to the new Congress in early 2009. 
Additionally, our work with energy 
efficiency collaboratives in each of 
our five states helped us develop our 
programs and offerings.   

At the right, we summarize some of 
the expectations of our stakeholders 
and how we respond to them. Listed 
below are some of the organizations 
we regularly collaborate with. A more 
complete list can be found in the 
Environment & Sustainability section 
of our Web site.

PARTNERSHIPS AND 
MEMBERSHIPS
Please visit each organization’s  
Web site for additional information.
•  The Aspen Institute
•  Business for Social Responsibility
•  Business Roundtable
•  The Climate Group
•  Clinton Global Initiative
•  Committee Encouraging 
Corporate Philanthropy
•  Global Environmental 
Management Initiative

•  Institute for Electric Efficiency
•  Keystone Center
•  The Nature Conservancy
•  The Pew Center’s Business 

Environmental Leadership Council

•  Resources for the future
•		united States Climate 
Action Partnership

•		World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development

•		World Economic forum
•		World Energy Council

44

STAkEHOLDERS

ExPECTATIONS

FULFILLMENTS

Suppliers

Investors

•  fair dealing
•  Timely payment
•  Opportunities to 

grow their businesses

•  Competitive returns
•  Strong board governance
•  Management accountability
•  Regulatory compliance
•  Strong corporate reputation
•  Transparent reporting

•  Supplier Code of Conduct
•  Competitive bidding process
•  Confidential ethics hotline
•  Minority/women/veterans 
business procurement 
practices

•  Strong financial performance
•  82 years of cash dividends
•  Comprehensive management 

and ethics policies
•  Web site information
•  Investment-grade 

credit ratings

•  Strong balance sheet

Regulators

•  Reasonable cost and 

•  Effective management 

reliable supply

•  Regulatory compliance
•  Transparent reporting
•  Collaborative policy 

development

•  Community involvement

policies  
and systems

•  “No surprises” practices
•  Policy leadership

Non-Government 
Organizations

•  Transparent reporting
•  Accessibility
•  Problem-solving engagement
•  Research and policy leadership

•  Partnerships and collabora-
tives on several issues and  
at various levels

•  Annual sustainability and 

financial reports

•  Joint research projects
•  Stakeholder dialogues

GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
is an internationally accepted frame-
work for reporting on an organiza-
tion’s economic, environmental and 
social performance. It is intended 
for use by organizations of any size, 
regardless of geographic location or 
purpose.

Our Sustainability Report is not 
organized according to the GRI list  
of approximately 120 indicators  
but addresses many of the indicator 
topics. We provide a detailed 
response to all of the GRI indicators 
on our Web site at www.duke-energy.
com/environment/sustainability.  

With this report and our online  
information, we believe we meet  
GRI Guidelines Application Level B.

Standard Disclosures
Inside front cover, 1-15, 42-44

Economic Indicators
15, 23-24, 36-41

Environmental Indicators
9-10, 13-14, 22-29

Product Responsibility Indicators
12, 16-21, 29

Labor Practices and  
Decent Work Indicators
14, 30-35

Human Rights Indicators
Please see our detailed index at  
http://www.duke-energy.com/ 
environment/sustainability/ 
human-rights-indicators.asp

Society Indicators
5-8, 15, 23, 25, 29, 38, 43

G O V E R N A N C E   A N D   T R A N S P A R E N C Y

45

 
 
 
 
 
 
i n d e p e n d e n t   R e V i e w

This is the third year that Duke Energy has 
invited Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR) to conduct an independent review 
of the company’s annual Sustainability 
Report. In addition to highlighting the 
strengths and areas for improvement we 
see in the 2008|2009 report, we reflect 
on the progress in Duke Energy’s reporting 
practices since 2006 and how future 
reports can address a changing business 
and world. It should be noted that our 
review neither verifies nor expresses an 
opinion on the accuracy, materiality, or 
completeness of information provided in 
this report.

Significant strengths and  
achievements include:

•	 Capturing	the	complexity	and	

dynamism of ‘sustainability.’ This 
year’s report confronts the changing, 
and increasingly inter-related, 
landscape of sustainability issues 
for Duke Energy and the consequent 
evolution of the company’s sustain-
ability activities. It highlights the 
emerging issue of water scarcity (p.9) 
and the re-prioritization of economic 
development and financial strength in 
light of the economic crisis, discusses 
new challenges and opportunities, and 
shares a commitment to revise the 
sustainability goals in response. We 
look forward to hearing how Duke is 
applying systems thinking to sustain-
ability and adapting efforts to address 
dynamic social and environmental 
trends.

•	

Insight	into	sustainability	implemen-
tation and culture. The summary 
of management approach (p.11) 
responds directly to last year’s recom-
mendation to share how Duke Energy 
is ‘building a culture of sustainability’ 

for all employees; its enhancement 
constitutes leadership practice in 
reporting.

•	 Tone. We have consistently been 

impressed by the open, direct, and 
authentic voice in Duke Energy’s 
reports. Accessible language, clear 
explanations of complex topics, and 
straightforward acknowledgement of 
challenges and criticisms create a 
balanced and effective report. We  
hope to see this best practice continue.

In future reports, we encourage  
Duke Energy to strive to:

•	 Clearly	track	the	evolution	of	material	
issues and stakeholder expectations. 
Duke Energy’s new business ventures 
in wind, solar, biomass, plug-in 
vehicles, and smart grids raise new 
sustainability questions and will 
transform the company’s relation-
ships with stakeholders. how will the 
company tackle security and privacy 
concerns about smart grid technology? 
how will the role of customers change 
with distributed solar generation? 
Going forward, we recommend that the 
company more explicitly show readers 
how ‘material’ issues and stakeholder 
expectations are changing over time.

•	 Continue	to	strengthen	stakeholder	
voices. We were pleased to see 
Duke Energy incorporate internal and 
external stakeholder views into the 
report with quotes and Q&As, adding 
texture and insight. however, we hope 
to see the company push the envelope 
with more critical perspectives and 
greater alignment of stakeholder voices 
across both the sustainability and 
annual reports.

•	 Reflect	more	on	cumulative	impact. 

In the sustainability plan’s third year of 
implementation, we would like to see 
more reporting of trends and evalua-
tion of cumulative (as well as annual) 
impact of Duke Energy’s sustain-
ability efforts. These reflections as 
well as inclusion of future targets will 
provide a more comprehensive view of 
achievement. 

•	 Articulate	the	impact	of	sustainability	
on the bottom line. We encourage 
Duke Energy to take on the challenge 
of measuring – and communicating – 
the business impact of sustainability 
efforts. Doing so will further concretize 
the link between sustainability and 
business success for both internal 
and external stakeholders, and focus 
resources on activities with the greatest 
sustainability and business impact. 
Both are particularly critical during a 
time of economic stress. 

2009 promises to be a watershed year for 
the future of energy at home and abroad: 
imminent climate legislation and substan-
tial government investment in energy 
infrastructure in the u.S., and increasing 
momentum for concerted international 
action on climate change suggest funda-
mental changes are on the horizon. Next 
year, we look forward to continuing to 
hear how Duke Energy is working with 
stakeholders to ask – and answer – ‘what 
should the future of energy look like?’

Julia Nelson
Manager, Energy & Extractives
Business for Social Responsibility
March 30, 2009

46

 
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS
2008 Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Duke Energy’s 2008|2009 Sustainability Report references 2008 adjusted 
diluted EPS of $1.21. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP (generally 
accepted accounting principles) financial measure, as it represents diluted 
EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for the per-share impact of 
special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the 
Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and 
credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular 
basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of 
derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately, as 
such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory 
accounting used in Duke Energy’s hedging of a portion of the economic 
value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. 
The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in 
fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodi-
ties (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both 
purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to 
the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets 
are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that 
excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge 
contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the 
financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic 
value of the underlying hedged asset. The most directly comparable GAAP 
measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing 
operations, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-
market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. 
The following is a reconciliation of reported diluted EPS from continuing 
operations to adjusted diluted EPS for 2008.

Diluted EPS from continuing operations, as reported 
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations, as reported 
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items, as reported 
Diluted EPS, as reported 
Adjustments to reported EPS: 
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations 
Diluted EPS from extraordinary items 
Diluted EPS impact of special items and  
  mark-to-market in Commercial Power (see below) 
Diluted EPS, adjusted 

2008
$1.01
0.01
0.05
1.07

(0.01)
(0.05)

0.20
$1.21

The following is the detail of the $(0.20) in special items and mark-to-
market in Commercial Power impacting adjusted diluted EPS for 2008:

Pre-Tax 
(In millions, except per-share amounts)  Amount 
$  (44) 
Costs to achieve the Cinergy merger 
(214) 
Crescent project impairments 
Emission allowances impairment 
(82) 
Mark-to-market impact of economic hedges (75) 
Total Adjusted Diluted EPS impact 

Effect 

Tax  2008 Diluted
EPS Impact
$17            $(0.02)
(0.10)
(0.04)
(0.04)
           $(0.20)

83 
30 
27 

2008 Employee Incentive Target Measure
Duke Energy’s 2008|2009 Sustainability Report references the company’s 
2008 employee EPS incentive target. The EPS measure used for employee 
incentive bonuses is primarily based on adjusted diluted EPS. The 
materials also reference the forecasted range of growth in adjusted diluted 
EPS through 2013 (on a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, basis). 
Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure, as it represents 
diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for the per-share impact 
of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in 
the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges 
and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular 
basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of 
derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately, as 
such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory 
accounting used in Duke Energy’s hedging of a portion of the economic 
value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. 
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS 
is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations, which includes the 
impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic 
hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking 
nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information 
to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is 
not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items 
or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods. 

Forecasted 2009 Adjusted Segment EBIT 
Duke Energy’s 2008|2009 Sustainability Report includes a discussion 
of forecasted 2009 adjusted EBIT for each of Duke Energy’s reportable 
segments as a percentage of forecasted 2009 adjusted total segment EBIT. 
forecasted 2009 adjusted segment and total segment EBIT amounts are 
non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT 
adjusted for the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts 
of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items 
represent certain charges and credits which management believes will 
not be recurring on a regular basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect 
the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in 
GAAP earnings immediately, as such derivative contracts do not qualify for 
hedge accounting or regulatory accounting used in Duke Energy’s hedging 
of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in 
the Commercial Power segment. The most directly comparable GAAP 
measures for adjusted segment EBIT and total segment EBIT are reported 
segment EBIT and total segment EBIT, which represent segment results 
from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-
market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. 
Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for 
2009, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP 
financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to 
project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.

G O V E R N A N C E   A N D   T R A N S P A R E N C Y

47

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOkING INFORMATION
This report includes forward-looking state-
ments within the meaning of Section 27A of 
the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. forward-
looking statements are based on management’s 
beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking 
statements are identified by terms and phrases 
such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” 
“estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” 
“could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” 
“will,” “potential,” “forecast,” “target” and similar 
expressions. forward-looking statements involve 
risks and uncertainties that may cause actual 
results to be materially different from the results 
predicted. factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those indicated 
in any forward-looking statement include, but 
are not limited to: state, federal and foreign 
legislative and regulatory initiatives, including 
costs of compliance with existing and future 
environmental requirements; state, federal and 
foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives and 
rulings that affect cost and investment recovery 
or have an impact on rate structures; costs and 
effects of legal and administrative proceedings, 
settlements, investigations and claims; indus-
trial, commercial and residential growth in Duke 
Energy’s service territories; additional competi-
tion in electric markets and continued industry 
consolidation; political and regulatory uncer-
tainty in other countries in which Duke Energy 
conducts business; the influence of weather 
and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy’s 
operations, including the economic, operational 
and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts 
and tornados; the timing and extent of changes 
in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign 
currency exchange rates; unscheduled genera-
tion outages, unusual maintenance or repairs 
and electric transmission system constraints; 

the performance of electric generation and 
of projects undertaken by Duke Energy’s 
non-regulated businesses; the results of 
financing efforts, including Duke Energy’s ability 
to obtain financing on favorable terms, which 
can be affected by various factors, including 
Duke Energy’s credit ratings and general 
economic conditions; declines in the market 
prices of equity securities and resultant cash 
funding requirements for Duke Energy’s defined 
benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthi-
ness of counterparties to Duke Energy’s transac-
tions; employee workforce factors, including 
the potential inability to attract and retain key 
personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke 
Energy’s business units, including the timing 
and success of efforts to develop domestic and 
international power and other projects; construc-
tion and development risks associated with the 
completion of Duke Energy’s capital investment 
projects in existing and new generation facilities, 
including risks related to financing, obtaining 
and complying with terms of permits, meeting 
construction budgets and schedules, and satis-
fying operating and environmental performance 
standards, as well as the ability to recover costs 
from ratepayers in a timely manner; the effect of 
accounting pronouncements issued periodically 
by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the 
ability to successfully complete merger, acquisi-
tion or divestiture plans. 

In light of these risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions, the events described in the 
forward-looking statements might not occur or 
might occur to a different extent or at a different 
time than Duke Energy has described. Duke 
Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly 
update or revise any forward-looking state-
ments, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise.

CONTACT INFORMATION
We welcome your comments and 
questions about this report. Send  
any feedback to:

Roberta Bowman 
Senior Vice President and  
Chief Sustainability Officer
526 South Church Street
Mail Code: EC06B
Charlotte, NC 28202
sustainability@duke-energy.com

www.duke-energy.com/sr

PRINTING INFORMATION
This report was printed in the uSA  
on Neenah Environment PC100,  
which is made from 100% post-
consumer recycled fiber. 

This fSC-Certified paper meets 
the highest standards of the forest 
Stewardship Council (fSC) for  
responsible forest management.  
The fSC is an international nonprofit 
organization that supports environ-
mentally appropriate, socially 
beneficial and economically viable 
management of the world’s forests.

This paper is made with 100% 
Green-e Certified renewable energy 
and is manufactured free of chlorine 
chemistry.

48

PAINTING FOR A CAUSE
Chad	Fulton,	corporate	security	coordinator,	
in	Cincinnati,	Ohio,	paints	over	graffiti	as	
part	of	our	annual	Global	Service	Event.

CATAWBA NUCLEAR STATION
Nuclear	power	has	been	a	part	of	Duke	Energy’s	fleet	for	more	than	30	years.	The	combined	 
generating	capacity	of	the	seven	nuclear	units	we	operate	is	approximately	7,000	megawatts.

exploRing new ways to do Business in a way 
that is good foR people, the planet and pRofits

Duke Energy
526 South Church Street
Charlotte, NC 28202

www.duke-energy.com

