2006|2007 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OUR PATH FORWARD

2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

2007 DUKE ENERGY
CHARTER

our charter

We are Duke Energy, a leading energy 

In conducting our business, we value:

company focused on electric power and gas 

• Stewardship – A commitment to health, 

distribution operations in the Americas. We 

safety, environmental responsibility and our 

energize our communities and enhance the 

communities

quality of life for the people who live there.

• Integrity – Ethically and honestly doing what 

we say we will do

Our purpose is to create superior and 

• Safety – A relentless commitment to working 

sustainable value for our customers, 

safely and looking out for the safety of our 

employees, communities and investors 

co-workers and others with whom we do 

through the production, delivery and 

business

sale of energy and energy services.

• Respect for the Individual – Embracing  

diversity and inclusion, enhanced by 

To be successful in 2007 and beyond,  

openness, sharing, trust, teamwork and 

we must:

involvement

• Establish the identity and culture of the  

• High Performance – Achieving superior 

new Duke Energy, unifying our people, 

business results, stretching our capabili-

values, strategy, processes and systems

ties and valuing the contributions of every 

• Optimize our operations by focusing on 

employee

safety, simplicity, accountability, inclusion, 

• Win-Win Relationships – Having relation-

customer satisfaction, cost management  

ships which focus on the creation of value  

and employee development

for all parties

• Achieve public policy, regulatory and legisla-

• Initiative – Having the courage, creativity 

tive outcomes that balance our customers’ 

and discipline to lead change and shape the 

needs for reliable energy at competitive 

future

prices with our shareholders’ expectation  

of superior returns

We will be successful when:

• Invest in energy infrastructure that meets 

• Our investors realize a superior return on their 

rising customer demands for reliable energy 

investment over time

in an energy efficient and environmentally 

• Our customers, suppliers and communities 

sound manner

benefit from our business relationships

• Achieve 2007 financial objectives and  

• Every employee starts each day with a sense 

position the company to meet future  

of purpose, and ends each day safely with a 

growth targets

sense of accomplishment

ON THE COVER 
Main Image: Path located on the Latta Plantation 
Nature Preserve near Charlotte, NC. 
Photo courtesy of Thomas Wyche.

Inset Images: (Top to bottom)

Michelle Morris, Power Delivery Work Center 
Dispatcher, enters data into the line crew  
dispatch system.

Catawba Nuclear Station.

Avery Cockerl, Carolinas Distribution Line  
Technician, at a substation near the Duke Energy 
Little Rock Operations Center in Charlotte, NC.

ABOUT THIS REPORT

This is Duke Energy’s first sustainability report. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

It highlights our past progress, presents the 

challenges and opportunities we face and  

About This Report …………………………… . 1

offers our view of the future. 

We based the content of this report on the 

Duke Energy Corporate Profile ....................... 2

interests of environmental groups and other 

Key Terms…………………….. ..................... 3

non-government organizations, investors, 

academic institutions and large customers. 

A Message from the Chairman ...................... 4

We believe that our community partners and 

industry peers will also find this report useful. 

A Message from the Vice President

of Sustainability .......................................... 6

To provide an independent assessment of this 

report, we contracted with Business for Social 

2007 Sustainability Plan.............................. 8

Responsibility (BSR, at www.bsr.org) to review 

and comment on its scope and content. BSR’s 

Products and Services ................................ 10

opinion is on page 32.

This document presents our 2006 results 

  Climate Change Position ......................... 18

Environmental Footprint ............................. 14

within our sustainability framework for the 

future. We also provide historical information 

Quality Workforce ...................................... 20

where consistent data for Duke Energy and its 

recent merger partner, Cinergy, were available. 

Strong Communities .................................. 24

While this report was not structured to conform 

Governance and Transparency .................... 28

to the 2006 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 

  Global Reporting Initiative Index .............. 30

guidelines, a broad index to GRI indicators can 

  Stakeholder Matrix ................................. 31

be found on page 30. A more detailed index 

to the GRI indicators can be found on our Web 

Independent Review .................................. 32

site at www.duke-energy.com/environment/

sustainability.asp. With the information on our  

Web site, we believe we meet GRI Application 

Level B.  

The theme of this sustainability report is “Our 

Path Forward,” and we are, indeed, moving 

ahead. We hope you’ll join us as we navigate 

the important environmental, economic and 

social issues of our time. 

Wetlands at Cayuga Station in Indiana.

1

DUKE ENERGY
CORPORATE PROFILE

  C o r p o r a t e   H e a d q u a r
r
  F r a n c h i s e d   E l e c t
  O f fi c e   L o c a t
  M a j o r

t e r s  
i c   &   G a s   Te r
i o n

t o r y  

r

i

I n d i a n a

P L A I N F I E L D

O h i o

C I N C I N N A T I

K e n t u c k y

C H A R L O T T E

t h   C a r o l

i n a

N o r

S o u t h   C a r o l

i n a

  O f fi c e   L o c a t
i n   A m e r

i o n  
i c a n   H o l d i n g

  M a j o r
  L a t

In 2006, Duke Energy completed a number 

which develops, owns and operates electric 

of strategic actions. These included a 

generation sources that serve large energy 

merger with Cinergy in April, the creation 

consumers, municipalities, utilities and 

of a joint venture with Morgan Stanley 

industrial facilities. We expect this business 

Real Estate Fund and the spinoff of 

unit to generate approximately 7 percent of 

our natural gas pipeline business. The 

forecasted 2007 ongoing total segment EBIT. 

company’s current businesses include:

It includes:

• U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas –  

generation, most of which is dedicated  

which operates in North Carolina, 

to regulated customers.

•  8,100 megawatts of unregulated  

South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and 

Kentucky. This is our largest business 

•  Duke Energy International – which encom-

segment and our primary source of 

passes our international electric generation 

earnings growth. We expect this 

operations located in Central and South 

business unit to generate approxi-

America. We expect this business unit 

mately 80 percent of forecasted 

to generate approximately 10 percent of 

2007 ongoing total segment 

forecasted 2007 ongoing total segment EBIT. 

earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT).  

It includes:

It includes:

•  A $16 billion retail rate base

•  3.9 million electric customers

•  4,000 megawatts of generation, primarily 

hydroelectric power, in six countries: 

Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, El Salvador, 

S A O   P A U L O

•  500,000 gas customers in Ohio and 

Guatemala and Peru.

Kentucky

B U E N O S   A I R E S

•  47,000 square miles of service territory

•  Crescent Resources – which is an effec-

• 28,000 megawatts of regulated generation

tive joint venture with Morgan Stanley Real 

• 126,OO0 miles of electric lines.

Estate Fund, manages land holdings and 

M E X I C O   C I T Y

G U A T E M A L A   C I T Y

S A N   S A L V A D O R

L I M A

M e x i c o

M E X I C O   C I T Y

G u a t e m a l a

G U A T E M A L A   C I T Y
E l

  S a l v a d o r

S A N   S A L V A D O R

2

t e r s

C o r p o r a t e   H e a d q u a r

i c e   L o c a t

i o n

M a j o r

  O f

f

F r a n c h i s e d   E l e c t

r

i n   A m e r

L a t

W h o l e s a l e   G e n e r a t

i c a n   A s s e t s

i o n   P l a n t

i c   a n d   G a s   S e r v i c e   A r e a

develops high-quality commercial, residen-

•  Commercial Power – which owns and 

tial and multi-family real estate projects in 

operates unregulated power plants, primarily 

10 states, primarily in the southeastern and 

in the Midwest. Almost all of the results 

southwestern United States. We expect this 

for this business come from sales to retail 

business unit to generate approximately 3 

customers in Ohio under that state’s Rate 

percent of forecasted 2007 ongoing total 

Stabilization Plan. Also in this segment is 

segment EBIT. 

Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), 

E c u a d o r

P e r u

L I M A

B r a z i

l

S A O   P A U L O

A r g e n t

i n a

B U E N O S   A I R E S

 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY TERMS

reliable, cost-effective and environmentally 

RepResentative affiliations  

Actions – not words – are the true measure of 

responsible manner. The company’s energy 

and paRtneRships

a company’s character. But words often help 

planning decisions are guided by a comprehen-

• Alliance to Save Energy

put the actions into perspective. We offer this 

sive Integrated Resource Plan (IRP), which is 

• American Association  

summary of key terms frequently used in this 

submitted to our state regulators.

report. More extensive descriptions can be 

found on our Web site.

The IRP process evaluates all reasonable 

of Blacks in Energy

• American Red Cross

• Business Roundtable

resource scenarios, including supply-side 

• Business for Social Responsibility

Sustainability

options (electric generation) and demand-side 

• Catalyst

Duke Energy has adopted the Dow Jones 

options (actions to reduce electric demand).  

• Center for Corporate Citizenship  

Sustainability Index definition to describe our 

In many states, the IRP process considers the 

at Boston College

approach to sustainability: “Corporate sustain-

environmental costs and effects of electricity 

ability is a business approach that creates 

supply and transmission decisions. Cost- 

• The Conference Board

• Edison Electric Institute

long-term shareholder value by embracing 

effective energy efficiency and renewable 

• Electric Power Research Institute

opportunities and managing risks deriving  

energy alternatives are also considered in  

• EPA Natural Gas Star Program

from economic, environmental and social 

the IRP process. 

developments.”

PROOF OF PROGRESS

• Global Environmental  

Management Initiative

• INROADS

Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change

When it comes to sustainability, our path 

• The Keystone Center

The greenhouse effect is a naturally occurring 

forward is clear. Here are several indicators  

• Massachusetts Institute of Technology: 

phenomenon, keeping the earth hospitable to 

of our progress: 

Joint Program on the Science and Policy 

life by trapping heat. Carbon dioxide and many 

•  We are committed to greatly increasing our 

of Global Change

other gases exhibit “greenhouse” properties. 

spending on energy efficiency programs for 

• National Action Plan for  

Some of them occur naturally while others are 

customers, subject to appropriate regulatory 

Energy Efficiency

exclusively man-made.

treatment.

• National Association of Manufacturers

•  We are installing pollution controls at our 

• National Council of Teachers  

Recent research – accepted by a growing 

generating stations that will cut sulfur dioxide 

of Mathematics

majority of scientists and policymakers –  

and nitrogen oxides emissions by 70 percent 

• National Minority Supplier  

indicates that human activity has increased 

compared to 1997 levels.

Development Council

the concentrations of these greenhouse gases 

•  We are implementing new safe workplace 

• The Nature Conservancy

and contributed to the rise in global average 

policies and programs.

• NatureServe

temperatures. To avoid the worst effects of 

•  We are a significant partner in economic 

• Pew Center on Global Climate Change 

climate change, greenhouse gas concentrations 

development projects throughout our  

• ORC Worldwide

in the atmosphere need to be stabilized, then 

service areas.

reduced.

•  We continue to deliver electric and gas 

• Resources for the Future

• TODOS: Mathematics for All

Integrated Resource Planning

•  We created value for our investors with 

One of Duke Energy’s greatest challenges is 

a total shareholder return in 2006 that 

• U.S. Climate Action Partnership

•University of Michigan: Graham  

meeting our customers’ energy needs in a 

exceeded leading industry indicators.

Environmental Sustainability Institute

service at prices below the national average.

• United Way

3

A MESSAGE FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN

Welcome to Duke Energy’s first sustainability 

•  How can we provide a sustainable return on 

report. 

our shareholders’ investments?

Sustainability is shorthand for our business 

ThE NEW ENERGY EqUATION

philosophy; simply put, we believe that 

These questions get to the heart of what we 

responsible actions lead to long-term success. 

call the “new energy equation,” which can be 

Sustainability is more than good corporate 

solved in part through our focus on sustain-

citizenship. It’s about pursuing our vision of 

ability. Achieving the new energy equation will 

tomorrow while serving our stakeholders well 

require us to balance the needs of all our stake-

today. It’s also about facing challenges honestly 

holders and challenge conventional wisdom 

and head-on, without sacrificing profitability. 

with new thinking and innovation. With that in 

mind, here’s how we’re currently addressing 

This sustainability report gives you a closer look 

each of these complex issues:

at some of the broader issues – beyond finan-

cial performance and business strategy – that 

Energy and the Environment – Providing the 

Duke Energy confronts. Here we report on our 

energy we need while protecting the environ-

environmental performance, our safety record, 

ment is one of the most critical issues of our 

the investments we make in our communities 

time. Duke Energy is committed to devel-

and the values that underlie all of our actions. 

oping more efficient electric generation with 

LIvING OUR vALUES

fewer emissions, including the greenhouse 

gases that contribute to global warming. We 

Our company’s business values are closely 

are strong advocates for energy efficiency, as 

linked to performance in all areas. Duke 

shown by our participation in organizations 

Energy’s charter, which precedes this letter, 

such as the National Action Plan for Energy 

describes our purpose, our objectives, our 

Efficiency and the Alliance to Save Energy. I am 

values and our measures of success. Our Code 

also a founding member of the U.S. Climate 

of Business Ethics, posted on our Web site, 

Action Partnership, a coalition of business and 

guides employees to do the right thing when 

environmental leaders who advocate taking 

they contend with tough ethical decisions.

swift action on federal legislation that will put 

mandatory limits on greenhouse gas emissions 

As a company, we face challenging decisions 

in all economic sectors. 

as well:

•  How do we meet our customers’ growing 

Safety – 2006 was a failure for Duke Energy in 

demand for energy, while reducing our 

this very important area. Four people died due 

environmental footprint?

to accidents on the job. The only acceptable 

•  How can we keep our employees and 

goal is zero fatalities – and we have put finan-

contractors safe?

cial incentives in place for all employees if we 

•  How can we attract and retain the right kind 

reach that goal in 2007. In addition, we have 

of new talent? 

set a goal based on our injury rate, with finan-

•  How can we help our communities thrive in 

cial penalties for management if we fall short of 

a changing economy?

that threshold. Employees and contractors will 

Jim Rogers has had a varied 
career, serving as a reporter, a 
consumer advocate, an attorney 
specializing in utility issues 
and now as a utility executive. 
Throughout his career, he has 
been a strong voice for sustain-
ability.

4

be safer at work and at home only if we change 

the merger with Cinergy. We are keeping the 

our mindset and our behavior. We simply must 

promises of that merger by achieving econo-

do a better job in this important area. 

mies of scale and sharing those savings with 

our customers and investors. The company’s 

A quality Workforce – Employees are the 

financial performance, detailed in our Summary 

foundation of our company, and they should 

Annual Report, is achieved within a broader 

share in the rewards of our success. The 

framework of personal and corporate ethical 

bright, talented people that we hope to attract 

behavior. We comply with both the letter and 

to Duke Energy expect a company committed 

the spirit of the laws that govern our operations.

to sustainability; they’re looking for companies 

that want to make a real difference in people’s 

A TEST OF TIME

oUR ResponsiBilitY

lives. Our goal is to have employees of all ages 

As a grandfather of seven, I believe there is  

A child’s hand within an adult’s  

and backgrounds who want to work for an 

one sure test of our success: How will our 

organization that values their contributions, 

grandchildren view our actions in the future? 

supports their development and helps them 

Years from now, will they know we took the 

find balance in their work and personal lives.  

right steps to improve our environment, our 

symbolizes the responsibility 

we have to leave our world a 

better place. The five fingers 

also help reinforce the five 

communities and our quality of life? Will they 

focus areas of our sustainability plan.

Strong Communities – Helping our commu-

believe we made the right ethical decisions, 

nities thrive and grow is important to Duke 

treated our employees fairly and gave 

Energy. We have a long tradition of community 

customers their money’s worth? Or will they 

support and partnership in the Midwest and 

wonder why we didn’t do more? By antici-

Carolinas. Our wide-ranging economic develop-

pating our future generations’ answers to those 

ment efforts help create new jobs. Business 

questions, we’ll make better decisions that will 

relations managers throughout our service terri-

stand the test of time.

tory serve as two-way channels of information 

about community needs and the programs we 

You can find more information about our 

have in place to meet them. We provide finan-

company’s sustainable approach to doing 

cial support to countless worthwhile causes, 

business on our Web site, www.duke-energy.

and our employees and retirees volunteer in 

com, where you can also contact us if you  

virtually every community we serve.  

have questions or concerns. Thank you for  

your interest in our ongoing commitment to 

A Sustainable Return – Our obligation to 

sustainability.

shareholders means investing their dollars 

wisely and accepting accountability for 

achieving our goals. We have reduced much 

Sincerely,

of our company’s risk by divesting some of our 

more volatile businesses, including our trading 

and marketing operations and much of our 

wholesale electric generation. Duke Energy’s 

Jim Rogers

strategy today focuses on our regulated power 

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

business, which was greatly expanded in 

March 26, 2007

5

A MESSAGE FROM THE 
VICE PRESIDENT OF SUSTAINABILITY

Jim Rogers’ letter outlines the greatest 

Duke Energy prior to their 2006 merger. We 

challenges facing our company. Our response 

also analyzed the feedback from the Dow Jones 

to those challenges helps to make the business 

Sustainability Index – a leading independent 

case for sustainability: Companies that succeed 

benchmark of excellence in sustainability 

in the long-term are those that effectively 

performance.  And, we did a lot of listening.  

manage environmental, economic and social 

We listened to our many external stakeholders. 

risks and opportunities. 

We listened to leaders in sustainability. We 

listened to our employees. And we listened to 

Sustainability issues dominate the competi-

our conscience. 

tive landscape wherever we do business. We 

depend on natural resources to fuel our power 

SUSTAINABILITY IS A JOURNEY

plants. The price of electricity and natural gas 

Sustainability at Duke Energy is a journey, not 

affects our customers’ competitiveness and 

a destination. Different parts of our company 

our regional economies. And, we are a major 

begin this journey at different mile markers.  

employer and partner in the communities we 

Some areas have been on the path of sustain-

serve. For those reasons, we believe that if 

ability for years, while others are just beginning.   

Duke Energy doesn’t have a sustainability plan, 

we don’t have a business plan. 

For example, we have long recognized that 

as we increase power plant efficiency, we 

SETTING OUR PATh FORWARD

reduce costs and emissions per kilowatt-hour. 

My responsibility at Duke Energy is to help 

That’s why improving power plant efficiency 

translate the concept of sustainability into 

has been an objective of ours for many years.  

action. Our approach is characterized by 

But, as a newly merged company, we are just 

research and analysis, integrating sustainability 

beginning to bring together our environmental 

into our business, focusing on what matters 

performance data and identify opportunities for 

most, and establishing clear accountabilities, 

improvement. In the future, our goals will be 

goals and measures.  

more quantifiable.

In developing the sustainability plan for Duke 

ADDING vALUE FOR STAKEhOLDERS

Energy, we began with our corporate vision 

Part of our mission is to make sustainability a 

and values, our business strategy, and the 

core competency at Duke Energy – something 

sustainability commitments of Cinergy and 

that is not only “nice to do,” but something that 

Roberta Bowman on the 
campus of the new  
Charlotte Research Institute  
at the University of North  
Carolina – Charlotte. Duke 
Energy was the lead contributor 
to the Institute, supporting  
our commitment to economic 
development and training 
workers for the challenges  
of a global economy.

6

adds real value. We know that the companies 

REPORTING OUR PROGRESS

that achieve their sustainability objectives are 

This first Duke Energy sustainability report 

those that align their words with actions and 

sets the baseline for measuring future perfor-

make sustainability part of the company’s 

mance. Consistent with the company’s scope, 

operations and culture.

most of the emphasis in this report is on our 

U.S. operations. Duke Energy’s policies and 

WhAT MATTERS MOST

corporate programs, however, also apply to our 

Sustainability is a big word and its scope can 

international business. 

be overwhelming. There are few areas of our 

business that don’t touch on sustainability 

We have placed more information on our Web 

in some way. Duke Energy’s approach is to 

site at www.duke-energy.com/environment/

concentrate our efforts where we have the 

sustainability.asp, and we intend to add new 

greatest impact and risk. In financial and legal 

content throughout the year. I hope you will 

terms, it’s called “materiality.” We prefer simpler 

visit the site for more details and let us know 

words: what matters most.  

what you think. 

FOCUS AREAS

Our journey to sustainability follows a path 

Our five focus areas were initially shaped 

forward. As with any journey, we know we’ll 

by our own priorities, and then refined with 

encounter some twists and turns along the 

external stakeholder input:

way, and even an occasional roadblock. But, 

•  Provide innovative products and services  

we also expect that this path forward will lead 

for a carbon-constrained, competitive world

us to important new discoveries – ideas and 

•  Reduce our environmental footprint

innovations that we can’t even imagine today. 

•  Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality 

We look forward to reporting our progress in the 

workforce

•  Help build strong communities

years ahead.

•  Be profitable and demonstrate strong  

Sincerely,

governance and transparency

As you’ll see on the following pages, each  

focus area is supported by specific goals and 

Roberta Bowman

objectives that will guide our actions over the 

Vice President, Sustainability  

next five years.

and Community Affairs

March 26, 2007

Duke Energy has been named one of 

North America’s leading companies in a 

measurement of financial, environmental 

and social performance. We are a member 

of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 

North America (DJSI NA), which tracks 

leading companies for their sustainable 

approach to business. The DJSI NA list 

contains 112 companies selected from the 

largest 600 North American corporations. 

Duke Energy was the only “multi-utility” 

named to the list in 2006.

7

2007

sustainability plan

This sustainability plan reflects Duke Energy’s commitment to 

in the future. We have listened to and incorporated feedback from 

conduct our business in a way that creates long-term benefits for  

our stakeholders into this plan. The plan does not endeavor to  

our stakeholders, our environment and our company. It recognizes 

cover every sustainability initiative at Duke Energy – and there 

and addresses the key economic, environmental and social oppor-

are many. Instead, we focus on those areas that matter most from 

tunities and risks facing our industry today and in the future. This 

a sustainability risk and opportunity perspective. We will report 

plan expands on the company’s business strategy and values. Unless 

progress against these goals in this annual sustainability report  

otherwise noted, our intent is to achieve the goals in this plan by 

and other public venues.

2012. We expect to refine the goals with more quantifiable measures 

Area of Focus

Goals

PRODUCTS & SERvICES
Provide innovative products and  
services for a carbon-constrained,  
competitive world

•  Champion energy efficiency as a top industry issue and collaborate with regulators, customers 

and other key stakeholders to advance innovative policies and programs 

•  Aggressively pursue “smarter grid and meter” technologies that can deliver significant 

operational and customer benefits

Why it matters:

Our customers want products and services 

•  Expand green power options to customers in every state we operate

•  Keep rates competitive and achieve top quartile customer satisfaction in all markets as 

that keep them competitive regionally and 

measured by national benchmark surveys

•  Diversify our fuel mix and address the climate change issue by:

• Promoting U.S. federal policy mandating economy-wide reductions of greenhouse gas 

emissions

• Creating the option to build new nuclear (carbon free) generation

• Piloting clean coal and other innovative technologies, e.g., advanced integrated gasification 

combined cycle technology, geological carbon dioxide sequestration

• Securing cost-effective alternative sources of energy 

• Reducing, avoiding and/or sequestering at least 10 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalents 

over the next eight years (2007-2014)

•  Continue to focus on safe, reliable and efficient power plant operations

•  Model energy efficiency internally

•  Deliver on our commitment to significantly reduce nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide emissions 

by completing remaining projects to install state-of-the-art emission reduction technologies

•  Develop the next generation of environmental goals in 2007 – considering air, water, waste and 

land management – to further reduce our footprint

globally, yet respond to environmental 

concerns.

ENvIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Reduce our environmental footprint

Why it matters:

As an energy company, we have a large 

impact on the environment and depend  

on natural resources for much of our fuel.

8

(Left to right) The Energy Explorium is an interactive center  
located at McGuire Nuclear Station, which allows visitors to  
learn about energy.

Belews Creek Steam Station, located on the Dan River near Belews 
Creek, NC is one of our largest coal-fired generating stations.

Annual wood duck banding on wetlands at East Bend Station  
near Union, KY tracks migration routes and helps provide valuable 
biological information.

Area of Focus

Goals

qUALITY WORKFORCE
Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality 
workforce

Why it matters:

Energy companies will be differentiated  

by the quality, creativity, and customer  

focus of their employees.

•  Achieve zero fatalities and top decile safety performance in total incident case rate (TICR) 

•  Develop a culture of wellness by encouraging, supporting and rewarding improved employee 

health and well-being

•  Attract, retain and engage a diverse, talented workforce by:

•  Implementing a more effective employee recruitment and development plan

•  Developing and implementing innovative employee programs and benefits, e.g., alternative 

work locations

•  Launching ways to transfer or retain critical knowledge given that approximately 40 percent 

of the workforce will be eligible to retire in the next five years

•  Drive understanding of the value of sustainability within the company to inspire ideas and 

innovation

STRONG COMMUNITIES
Help build strong communities

Why it matters:

Our success is linked to the health and  

prosperity of the communities we serve.

•  Partner to stimulate economic growth in our communities by attracting 12,500 jobs and $2.4 

billion in capital investment in 2007

•  Invest over $15 million annually in community programs that improve the quality of life in our 

communities

•  Implement tools for our communities to use that will support their long-term planning 

•  Develop and implement strategies to address future water issues that will arise from continued 

population growth in the Carolinas

•  Increase spending with diverse suppliers by 5 percent a year 

•  Implement initiatives to support public safety in our communities

GOvERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY
Be profitable and demonstrate strong 
governance and transparency

Why it matters:

Creating shareholder value and earning  

the trust and confidence of our many  

•  Provide investors a superior and sustainable return on their investment

•  Assure that we have effective ethics and compliance programs

•  Regularly benchmark our corporate governance practices against best-in-class and industry 

peers and recommend revisions as appropriate

•  Assess our supply chain (services and products) from a sustainability perspective and  

implement appropriate follow-up actions 

stakeholders keeps us in business.

•  Communicate clearly and frequently with our stakeholders

9

PRODUCTS & SERVICES
Provide innovative products and services for a carbon-constrained, competitive world

ChALLENGE

OPPORTUNITIES

•  Develop innovative and economical  

•  Build the utility of the future through a 

energy efficient products and services  

combination of innovation, new technology 

to help customers remain competitive  

and efficient demand-side management

in an increasingly global and energy- 

•  Ensure constructive rate treatment for effec-

intensive economy

tive approaches that meet customer demand

GOALS

•  Champion energy efficiency as a top  

•  Pursue “smarter grid and meter” technologies

industry issue

•  Expand green power options for customers

•  Collaborate with regulators, customers  

•  Keep rates competitive and achieve top 

and other key stakeholders to advance 

quartile customer satisfaction

innovative policies and programs

ENERGY EFFICIENCY –  

OUR COMMITMENT TO  

ThE FIFTh FUEL

ENERGY EFFICIENCY

Demand for electricity in the United 

In October 2006, Duke Energy created a new 

States is expected to increase by 50 percent by 

department that is focused on energy efficiency.  

2030, according to the Department of Energy.  

The group is charged with:

In addition to coal, nuclear, natural gas and 

•  Understanding the many factors that affect 

renewable energy, we believe energy efficiency 

electricity usage; and

will become the “fifth fuel” to meet that growing 

•  Creating energy efficiency programs and 

demand. 

services that benefit our stakeholders.  

Relying on finite fossil fuels for all of our energy 

We’re also working with state utility commis-

needs is simply not a sustainable solution.  

sions, other utility companies and legislative 

With the right combination of technology, 

staff to design new laws and regulations that 

regulatory support and customer acceptance, 

place energy efficiency on an equal footing 

energy efficiency can benefit our customers,  

with investments in power plants. This new 

our investors and the environment. 

regulatory treatment would provide us with an 

s
e
c
i
v
r
e
s
&
s
t
c
u
d
o
r
p

10

 
 
incentive to explore and invest in new efficiency 

BUILDING A CONSENSUS  

eneRGY savinGs tips

programs and projects, and give our customers 

FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY

Duke Energy offers a variety of services 

universal access to cost-saving energy efficiency 

Nationally, Duke Energy is playing a leading 

to help customers reduce their energy 

measures.  

role with programs and policies that drive 

bills. Depending on the state of residence, 

energy efficiency. In 2006, Jim Rogers co-

we offer audits in the home or online. 

Our efforts have already been successful in 

chaired the development of the National Action 

Customers can also learn how to use 

one of the states we serve. Energy efficiency 

Plan for Energy Efficiency (NAPEE). Sponsored 

appliances more efficiently, construct an 

programs approved by the Kentucky Public 

by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 

energy efficient home or compare costs  

Utility Commission in 2006 have reduced 

and the Department of Energy, NAPEE was the 

of energy efficiency alternatives. Visit 

demand by over 12,800 megawatt-hours, 

joint effort of 50 gas and electric utilities, utility 

www.duke-energy.com for our latest  

or enough power to serve more than 1,000 

regulators and other organizations to create a 

energy savings tips.

homes each year. In our rapidly growing 

sustainable national commitment to energy 

Carolinas region, Duke Energy has committed 

efficiency. Visit www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/

to invest 1 percent of revenues on energy 

actionplan/leadership.htm for more information.

efficiency programs, once appropriate regula-

tory treatment is in place.  

We’ve also taken this national vision to the 

state level, hosting NAPEE-inspired statewide 

energy efficiency summits in the states we 

serve. We conducted collaborative summits in 

Kentucky and Indiana in 2006 and will hold 

summits in North Carolina, South Carolina and 

Ohio in 2007.

11

PRODUCTS & SERVICES

UTILITY  
COMMUNICATIONS

EFFICIENT BUILDING SYSTEMS

RENEWABLES

PHOTOVOLTAIC 
PANELS

INTERNET

CONSUMER PORTAL 
& BUILDING ENERGY 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

DISTRIBUTION 
OPERATIONS

ADVANCED 
METERING

CONTROL INTERFACE

DYNAMIC 
SYSTEM CONTROL

DATA  
MANAGEMENT

©Copyright 2006 Electric Power Research Institute, Inc.

PLUG-IN HYBRIDS

DISTRIBUTED 
GENERATION  
& STORAGE

SMART  
END-USE  
DEVICES

paRtneRinG With the epa

ThE UTILITY OF ThE FUTURE

use, helping us better tailor our operations and 

The Environmental Protection Agency 

One of the most exciting developments in 

planning to customer demand. We are piloting 

(EPA) partnered with Duke Energy to 

electricity distribution and use is bundled in 

smart meters in 2007 and expect to have them 

complete a complex metering and control 

what we call the “Utility of the Future.” Just 

in nearly all customers’ homes and businesses 

system at the agency’s Research Triangle 

as automobiles and manufacturing have been 

in five to seven years.

Park facility in North Carolina. The agency 

transformed by the digital revolution, we are 

tried several vendors and technologies, 

beginning to apply advanced technology to  

Increased Reliability, Decreased Cost

but Duke Energy was the only one to 

our electric system.

design and deliver a viable solution. The 

Utility of the Future concepts will make us a 

more efficient company in many ways. All the 

EPA can now monitor energy usage and 

The graphic above illustrates what the new 

various components of the energy delivery 

billing for electricity, natural gas, fuel oil 

“digital grid” might look like and how it will 

system will be linked through real-time commu-

and water at its various buildings on the 

serve our customers and communities.  

nications. State-of-the-art technology will help 

site, resulting in lower costs and improved 

us pinpoint outages and make repairs more 

understanding of usage patterns. 

harnessing New Technology  

quickly. The ultimate goal is to provide greater 

New technologies will drive fundamental 

reliability – with less environmental impact –  

changes in the way electricity is generated, 

at a lower cost to our customers. 

priced and used. Customers want to manage 

their energy use more closely, and “smart 

Visit the residential or business customer 

meters” will provide real-time price information.  

portions of our Web site for more information 

These advanced meters will also tell us when, 

on energy savings and management.

where and how much power our customers 

12

Comparison of Average Electric Rates*

6.0

5.9

6.0

5.4

6.8

6.4

7.4

7.0

6.6

5.5

8.4

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

h
w
k

r
e
p

s
t
n
e
C

Indiana 

Kentucky 

North Carolina 

Ohio 

South Carolina 

United States

 Duke Energy 

 Statewide 

 United States

*Source: EEI Typical Bills and Average Rates, Summer 2006.

CUSTOMER SATISFACTION

There are also several external measures of 

sheddinG liGht on  

What drives customer satisfaction in our 

customer satisfaction, including J.D. Power  

eneRGY savinGs

business? Our customers tell us it’s two things:  

and Associates’ 2006 Electric Utility Residential 

Duke Energy partnered with 

the cost of our product and the reliability of  

Customer Satisfaction Study. In that survey, 

Alexandria and Ludlow, 

our service. 

Duke Energy achieved top-quartile perfor-

mance in the Carolinas and third quartile  

Duke Energy’s electric rates, on a cents per 

in the Midwest. 

kilowatt-hour basis, continue to be competi-

tive in our five-state service area. Nationally, 

We were not successful in achieving our 2006 

as indicated on the chart above, our rates 

reliability goals. Our average service interrup-

Kentucky mayors and 

local retailers to help 

customers save money 

by purchasing  

ENERGY STAR® 

compact fluores-

are more than 20 percent below the national 

tion duration and frequency levels were:  

cent light bulbs (CFLs). Through a special 

average. 

discount offer, customers were able to buy bulbs 

2006 Results

Actual

Goal

that normally cost $5 for as little as 99 cents.  

Our customer satisfaction results in 2006 

were mixed. In surveys of several thousand 

customers, 82 percent rated their overall  

satisfaction with Duke Energy as an 8, 9 or  

10 on a scale of 1 to 10, exceeding our goal  

of 76 percent.

Average time without 
power* per customer

Average number of 
outages* per customer

* Longer than five minutes

164 min.

138 min.

Customers will save on energy bills, too: CFLs 

use up to 75 percent less energy than standard 

1.3

1.2

incandescent bulbs.

Improving reliability performance is a key 

objective in 2007.

13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Reduce our environmental footprint

ChALLENGES

•  Ensure reliable and cost-effective energy 

supplies for customers while minimizing  

our impact on the environment

•  Help address and meet the challenge  

of reducing greenhouse gases

of gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel for our 

service trucks and cars. We create waste 

streams in the process of generating electricity. 

And, our transmission and distribution systems 

are made of wood, steel and aluminum. Given 

our company’s reliance on these materials, it 

is essential that we use natural resources as 

efficiently as possible.  

OPPORTUNITY

•  Share our expertise, ideas and leadership to 

demonstrate that the new energy equation 

can be solved through multiple supply and 

Duke Energy has developed a comprehensive 

environmental, health and safety policy and 

management system to guide our actions. As  

demand options

a result, we:

GOALS

•  Promote U.S. federal policy mandating 

economy-wide reductions of greenhouse  

gas emissions

•  Establish processes to ensure compliance 

with environmental laws and regulations

•  Set goals and measure performance

•  Engage with stakeholders to advance mutual 

environmental objectives

•  Proactively manage public policy issues such 

•  Create the option to build new nuclear 

as climate change

(carbon free) generation

•  Pilot clean coal and other innovative  

technologies

•  Secure cost-effective alternative sources  

of energy 

•  Reduce, avoid and/or sequester at least 10 
million tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) equiva-
lents over the next eight years (2007-2014)

•  Continue to focus on safe, reliable and 

efficient power plant operations

•  Model energy efficiency internally

•  Deliver on our commitment to reduce 

nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide emissions

•  Develop next generation environmental  

goals in 2007 to further reduce our footprint

OUR IMPACTS ON ThE ENvIRONMENT

Like any business, our operations leave an 

•  Emphasize environmental stewardship.

REDUCING AIR EMISSIONS
Emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) and mercury from coal-fired 

power plants continue to be a major focus  

area for lawmakers, regulators and the public.  

Duke Energy has taken, and continues to take, 

aggressive action to reduce its emissions:  

•  Between 1998 and 2011, we are investing 

nearly $5 billion in controls to reduce our 
SO2, NOx and mercury emissions.

•  By 2010, we project that both our SO2 and 
NOx emissions will be about 70 percent 

lower than they were in 1997.

•  The technologies we’re installing to reduce 
SO2 and NOx also significantly reduce 
mercury emissions. Our current estimate 

environmental footprint. We use natural 

places mercury removal at between 70 and 

resources such as coal, uranium, natural gas, 

80 percent. We will report further on the 

oil and water to generate electricity for our 

effectiveness of these controls to reduce 

customers. We also use tens of thousands 

mercury emissions when we have more data.

Engineered wetland to treat 
wastewater at Marshall Steam 
Station, near Terrell, NC.

14

environmental footprintENvIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE

We continue to install pollution control equipment on our electric generating plants. NOx emissions have declined sharply as shown below, and 
SO2 is expected to show a similar decline as more “scrubbers” come into service. 2010 data is projected. 

Sulfur Dioxide Emissions (Tons)

Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (Tons)

900,000

800,000

700,000

600,000

500,000

400,000

 300,000

 200,000

 100,000

0

350,000

300,000

250,000

200,000

150,000

100,000

  50,000

0

‘97 

‘98 

‘99 

‘00 

‘01 

‘02 

‘03 

‘04 

‘05 

‘06 

‘10

‘97 

‘98 

‘99 

‘00 

‘01 

‘02 

‘03 

‘04 

‘05 

‘06 

‘10

SO2 and NOx reported from electric generation only, and based on ownership share of  
stations. Combustion turbines not equipped with continuous emission monitors and  
facilities operated but not owned by Duke Energy Generation Services are not included.

Sulfur Dioxide Emissions (Tons)*

Coal Consumption (Tons)

2006 net MeGaWatt-hoUR GeneRation  

2005

2006

Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (Tons)*

2005

2006

844,500

812,600

160,400

148,600

*  SO2 and NOx reported from electric generation only, and based on 
ownership share of stations. Combustion turbines not equipped 
with continuous emission monitors and facilities operated but not 
owned by Duke Energy Generation Services are not included.

Approximately 70 percent of the electricity  

Duke Energy produces for customers comes 
from coal, so CO2 releases are unavoidable. 
By using nuclear energy instead of coal for a 

portion of our generation, Duke Energy has 

avoided the release of approximately 1.1 billion 
tons of CO2 since the three nuclear stations 
entered service.

Carbon Dioxide Emissions (Tons)*

2005

2006

107,400,000

105,400,000

*  Emissions are for U.S. and Latin American electric generation 

facilities.

2006

46,500,000

peRCentaGes BY fUel*

2006 Coal Combustion Byproducts (Tons)

Beneficial Reuse

Land Disposal or Pond Stored

2,870,000

1,990,000

Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD)*

670,000

*  FGD material is primarily a mixture of lime, fly ash and calcium 

sulfite created by the SO2 scrubber process.

2005 Toxic Release Inventory* (Pounds)

Releases to Air

Releases to Water

Releases to Land

Off-Site Transfers

Total

80,172,829

247,542

15,234,393

77,123

95,731,887

C

B

A

B

C

D

D

A

  Coal 

104,929,426 

  Natural Gas/Oil  2,578,213  

  Hydro 

  Nuclear 

867,996 

40,422,697 

70.7%

1.7%

0.6%

27.0%

*  2006 data will not be available before July 2007. Data pertains 

to Duke Energy ownership share of facilities.

*  Data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of all 

facilities.

2006 Regulatory Citations*

13 Citations with $12,713 paid in fines/penalties

*  Includes Notices of Violation and similar infractions of permits or 

licenses at facilities operated by Duke Energy.

2006 Oil Spills (Gallons)

75 Spills 

3,251

More information on our air emissions is available at www.duke-energy.com/environment/air-quality.asp.

15

 
 
 
 
 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT

Cliffside station

Duke Energy proposed 

building two new 800-

megawatt power plants using 

supercritical coal technology 

at our Cliffside Station in North 

Carolina. This is the most envi-

ronmentally efficient pulverized 

coal technology available today, 

typically burning 10 percent less 

coal than conventional units and 

emitting significantly less sulfur 

dioxide and nitrogen oxides.

ThE NEED FOR  

NEW BASE LOAD  

GENERATION 

•  Implementing a variety of demand-side 

measures for large and small customers  

•  Adding combustion turbines to provide peak 

power when needed during hot summer days 

It’s been many years 

or cold winter mornings

since Duke Energy has 

•  Buying power from other generators when 

had to build a new 

“base load” power 

cost and reliability conditions are favorable. 

plant – that is, a 

While these measures have delayed the  

plant that operates 

need for new generation, they cannot offset 

continuously. 

entirely the rising demand for electricity. 

In fact, the last 

Regulated utilities are required by law to  

base load station 

meet the energy needs of their customers. 

In March 2007, we received the for-

Zimmer Station in 1991. In the Carolinas, it 

option. In the fast-growing Carolinas, 40,000 

mal Order from the North Carolina Utilities 

has been over two decades since the Catawba 

to 60,000 customers join our system each 

Commission, which authorized building 

Nuclear Station entered service in 1986. 

year. Our service areas in Indiana, Kentucky 

one of the two units. The Commission 

and Ohio are adding 11,000 to 16,000 

built in the Midwest was the 

“Running out of power” simply is not an  

also accepted our commitment to invest 

We’ve been able to meet rising demand for 

customers a year. 

1 percent of our revenues in the Carolinas 

electricity without building new base load 

for energy efficiency, subject to appropri-

power plants by:

Forecasts indicate that our customers in 

ate regulatory treatment, and our plan to 

•  Making our existing stations more efficient 

the Carolinas will need an additional 2,120 

retire older, less efficient units.

at producing power, despite adding pollu-

megawatts by 2011, increasing to an 

tion control equipment that requires more 

additional 6,120 megawatts by 2021. For 

Cliffside’s cost estimates were based 

electricity

perspective, Duke Energy Carolinas’ generating 

on two units, and we still need an air 

•  Working closely with large customers to 

capacity is currently about 20,000 megawatts.

permit for this project. We are studying 

reduce their electric consumption during 

the economics to determine whether we 

times of high demand 

should proceed with the Cliffside project 

or consider other alternatives, includ-

ing natural gas-fired plants. We won’t 

make a decision until we have a clearer 

understanding of the overall costs, as well 

as the conditions of the air permit.

New Resource Requirements* (Megawatts)

Year

2011

2016

2021

Indiana

Carolinas Kentucky

Ohio

275

612

797

2,120

4,180

No new generation is planned at this time

Plans are being reviewed

6,120

*  Figures represent cumulative totals to maintain a 15% reserve margin (Indiana) or 17% reserve margin (Carolinas) that may come from  

purchases, company-owned assets, and/or additional demand-side management.

16

Wind poWeR

In September 

2006, Duke 

Energy Indiana 

entered into a 

20-year power 

purchase agreement with Benton County 

Wind Farm LLC to purchase the electric-

ity produced by a 100 megawatt wind 

power facility to be constructed in Benton 

County, Indiana. This project will add a 

clean, renewable energy source to Duke 

Energy’s portfolio, help boost the local 

economy and encourage innovative ways 

to generate power within the state. This 

agreement paves the way for the first sig-

nificant wind power project and long-term 

purchase of wind power in Indiana. 

LEvERAGING  

ALL FIvE FUELS

Even with the aggressive 

actions our company and 

customers have taken, we 

will need all five fuels – coal, nuclear, natural 

gas, renewables and energy efficiency – to 

(Above) Gibson Station, near Mt. Carmel, IL, shows steam 
from its SO2 scrubbers. The cooling pond is in the middle 
ground and the Cane Ridge Wildlife Area is in the foreground. 
The two islands provide nesting habitat for the federal  endan-
gered Interior Least Tern.

(Left) Cayuga Station, near Cayuga, IN hosts Eagle Viewing Days 
one weekend each year. This event draws up to 2,000 visitors for 
an opportunity to see this American icon in its natural setting.

meet customer needs. As an outcome of the 

ENvIRONMENTAL STEWARDShIP

Integrated Resource Planning process, we are 

Every action counts in reducing our environ-

considering several options, each with its own 

mental footprint; no effort is too small. In 

implications for the company’s environmental 

addition to improving local habitats, many of 

footprint:

our environmental stewardship projects provide 

•  Constructing a nuclear power plant in South 

our customers and communities with opportu-

Carolina

nities to experience nature. Here are just two 

•  Constructing a modern, state-of-the-art 

examples: 

hYBRid BUCket tRUCks

pulverized coal-fired plant at our Cliffside 

•  Cane Ridge Wildlife Area – Over 450 acres 

Duke Energy is among the first utilities in 

Station in North Carolina

adjacent to the Gibson Station cooling pond 

the nation to test diesel-electric service 

•  Constructing an integrated gasification 

were converted into an exceptional wildlife 

combined cycle (IGCC) plant that transforms 

habitat, becoming one of the most successful 

coal into a synthetic gas to produce electricity 

conservation efforts in the Midwest.

at our Edwardsport Station in Indiana

•  Nature Trails, Butterfly Gardens and Wildlife 

•  Building or buying additional natural  

Food Plots – With the help of area garden 

gas-fired plants

clubs, civic groups, Boy Scouts and Girl 

•  Designing additional energy efficiency and 

Scouts, all three nuclear stations in the 

conservation measures 

Carolinas – and several other Duke Energy 

•  Pursuing renewable (wind, solar or biomass) 

facilities – host natural areas to support  

power plant technologies where feasible.

local wildlife.

trucks. Three hybrid trucks are being 

tested for fuel economy and emissions-

reduction benefits. Independent tests 

show the hybrid trucks may provide 40 to 

60 percent fuel savings and reduced air 

emissions because the vehicles can oper-

ate the buckets in electric-only mode.

More information is available at  

www.duke-energy.com/environment.

17

ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT

2004 U.s. GReenhoUse Gas eMissions
By sector (Million Metric Tons CO2 Equivalent)*

CLIMATE ChANGE AND  

lishing necessary price signals for the market-

DUKE ENERGY’S CALL TO ACTION

place. Prices would also provide clear financial 

F

A

E

D

B

C

A

B

C

D

E

F

  Residential 

391.1  

  Electricity Generation  2,337.8  

  Transportation 

  Industry 

  Agriculture 

  Commercial 

1,955.1 

1,377.3 

491.3 

459.9 

6%

32%

28%

20%

7%

7%

* Source U.S. EPA. Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and 

Sinks: 1990-2004. April 15, 2006.

Greenhouse gas emissions come from  

many sources. This chart shows that the  

largest contributors to total U.S. emissions  

are the electric generation, transportation  

and industrial sectors. 

As the third largest consumer of coal in the 

incentives to more aggressively develop 

U.S., Duke Energy is taking a leadership role  

technologies to reduce greenhouse gases. To 

in addressing global climate change.

permit the economy to adjust to the changes 

ahead, legislation should first focus on slowing 

OUR ThREE-PRONGED APPROACh

the growth of greenhouse gas emissions and 

Our approach to greenhouse gases and climate 

later transition to a declining national cap.

change has three components:

•  Promoting mandatory greenhouse gas  

Congress should adopt economy-wide climate 

reduction regulations

change legislation as soon as possible based on 

•  Voluntarily reducing our greenhouse  

the proven cap and trade approach used in the 

gas emissions

Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and more 

•  Advancing technological innovations

recent regulatory programs. This will provide 

the necessary regulatory framework our nation 

Policy Leadership – Duke Energy supports 

needs to ensure utilities like Duke Energy can 

passage of federal legislation mandating 

make the best long-term decisions on behalf of 

economy-wide regulation of greenhouse gas 

our customers and the environment. 

emissions. We believe Congress should act now 

to establish a market-based program that would 

cap greenhouse gases emitted from all U.S. 

voluntary CO2 Reduction – Duke Energy 
believes it is important to continue reducing 

sources, including power generation, industrial 

greenhouse gas emissions even before these 

and commercial sources and the transportation 

sector. Climate change is a global issue; there-

fore, it would be counterproductive for each 

emissions are regulated. Our goal is to reduce, 
avoid and/or sequester 10 million tons of CO2 
equivalent emissions by 2014. We will be 

state in our country to pass its own legislation 

investing $3 million per year on various types 

with different requirements and incentives.

of greenhouse gas reduction projects to achieve 

this goal.  In the past, we have invested in 

A national cap-and-trade program is our 

wind and solar power demonstrations, refores-

preferred approach. This type of program would 

tation, power plant improvements and lighting 

set a price for greenhouse gases, thereby estab-

upgrades, among other projects.

18

 
We are convinced that voluntary actions are 

with other companies and the Electric Power 

CliMate ChanGe poliCY paRtneRship

not enough – a mandatory policy is needed to 

Research Institute (EPRI) to evaluate the use 

As a founding corporate sponsor, Duke Energy 

address climate change in a fair and economi-

cally sound manner. More information about 

our commitment is at www.duke-energy.com/

environment/climate-change.asp.   

Technological Innovation – New technology 

of chilled ammonia to permanently capture 
and remove CO2 from flue gas. The goal is to 
continue using coal as a secure and affordable 
fuel for electric generation while reducing CO2 
emissions.

pledged $2.5 million to support climate change 

policy research at Duke Uni-

versity. The Climate Change 

Policy Partnership (CCPP), 

formed in August 2005, 

includes corporate partners, 

will play an important role in achieving the 

Duke Energy is also partnering with Southern 

the Nicholas School of the Environment and  

country’s climate change objectives. We are 

Company on a potential new nuclear station 

Earth Sciences, the Nicholas Institute for 

supporting research and development on 

in Cherokee County, SC. Additionally, we 

Environmental Policy Solutions and The Center 

both supply-side and demand-side options.  

are actively involved in the NuStart Energy 

on Global Change. More information is at  

We have plans to build state-of-the-art coal 

consortium, which will develop first-of-a-kind 

www.nicholas.duke.edu/institute/ccpp/.

and nuclear plants, and have been awarded 

engineering for new nuclear reactors. 

significant federal investment tax credits for 

our Edwardsport Integrated Coal Gasification 

SUPPORT FOR RESEARCh  

project and our Cliffside supercritical pulverized 

AND DEvELOPMENT

coal project. 

Much of Duke Energy’s research is done collab-

oratively. In 2006, we invested approximately 

In addition, Duke Energy is involved in three 

$12.5 million in research on power generation, 

of the seven Department of Energy regional 

power delivery and environmental sciences. 

carbon sequestration partnerships. Our East 

The largest portion of our research budget – 

Bend Generating Station in Kentucky was 

approximately $10 million – went to EPRI.  

chosen as a Phase II geologic sequestra-

Founded in 1973, EPRI is an independent, 

tion project for the Midwest Regional Carbon 

nonprofit center for public interest energy and 

Sequestration Partnership. The purpose of the 

environmental research; its members represent 

project is to investigate the safety and effective-

over 90 percent of the electricity generated in 

ness of carbon sequestration.

the U.S. For every dollar we invest in EPRI, 

Because geologic sequestration is not feasible 

collaborative research and knowledge.  

in many parts of the U.S., we are working 

Duke Energy receives about $30 worth of 

19

QUALITY WORKFORCE
Attract and retain a diverse, high-quality workforce

yworkforce

ChALLENGES

OPPORTUNITIES

t
i
l

a
u
q

•  Improve employee and contractor safety  

•  Become the leader in safe work practices 

•  Compete with other companies and indus-

•  Maintain our reputation as a preferred 

tries for the best talent

employer and attract top talent by providing 

high-quality training, competitive benefits 

and a safe, satisfying work environment

GOALS

•  Achieve zero fatalities and top decile safety 

•  Attract, retain and engage a diverse, talented 

performance in total incident case rate (TICR) 

workforce by:

•  Develop a culture of wellness by encouraging, 

  •  Implementing a more effective employee    

supporting and rewarding improved employee 

recruitment and development plan

health and well-being

  •  Developing and implementing innovative    

•  Drive understanding of the value of sustain-

  employee programs and benefits

ability within the company to inspire ideas 

  •  Launching ways to transfer or retain  

and innovation

  critical knowledge

tell Me

2006 SAFETY REvIEW

All major accidents at Duke Energy are rigor-

Duke Energy’s “Tell Me” program encour-

Last year was tragic for Duke Energy in one 

ously reviewed to understand the root cause and 

ages employees to protect each other by 

important respect: One employee and three 

to prevent accidents in the future. Information 

identifying risky behavior 

contractors died due to accidents on the job. 

about the accident and preventative actions are 

and immediately stop-

ping those actions. The 

concept is simple: By 

Of these, two were in U.S. Franchised Electric 

promptly shared within the company (including 

and Gas’ Power Delivery operations, one was 

with the company’s board of directors) and, 

at a construction project at Belews Creek 

where appropriate, with contractors and other 

wearing the “Tell Me” badge, employees 

Steam Station, and one was at Duke Energy 

industry partners.

invite others to tell them when they may 

Gas Transmission (now Spectra Energy). Our 

be performing an unsafe act. 

thoughts continue to be with the families 

affected by these tragedies.

20

 
IMPROvING SAFETY 

•  Our natural gas operating unit in Ohio and 

Improving employee and contractor safety is 

Kentucky achieved strong improvement in 

a top priority for our company. Because safety 

safety performance in 2006, with half the 

is an objective we share with other companies 

number of personal injuries compared to 

and industries, Duke Energy hosted a National 

2005 and the lowest TICR in 10 years. 

Safety Summit in Washington, DC in October 

2006.

NEW SAFETY INCENTIvE 

To reinforce the role every employee plays in 

Approximately 80 participants from business, 

safety, all employees will receive a 5 percent 

labor and government came to the summit to 

increase in their short-term incentive payments 

share data, lessons learned and best practices 

if Duke Energy has no employee, contractor or 

in contractor safety. In 2007, we are continuing 

sub-contractor fatalities in 2007. This provides 

to promote improved contractor safety by 

an added incentive for vigilance and commu-

maintaining the momentum from the National 

nication about unsafe working conditions. 

Safety Summit and convening action within the 

Additionally, management employees under the 

trade association for investor-owned electric 

long-term incentive plan will lose 5 percent of 

utilities, the Edison Electric Institute.

their bonuses if certain TICR goals are not met.

EMPLOYEE SAFETY DATA

EhS STEERING TEAM  

•  Based on Occupational Safety and Health 

In 2006, we established an Environmental, 

Administration criteria, in 2006, we had  

Health and Safety Steering Team to reinforce 

302 employee incidents during approxi-

our safety and environmental goals. Comprised 

mately 40.2 million work hours, a 7  

of officers representing generating stations, 

percent decrease from 2005.

natural gas operations, fleet services, 

•  We met our 2006 total incident case rate 

purchasing, legal, human resources and 

(TICR) target of 1.50 and achieved a total 

engineering services, the steering team meets 

lost workday case rate of 0.35. Our 2007 

regularly to share information about compliance 

target is a 5 percent improvement in the 

issues and best safety practices. The steering 

TICR, to 1.43. 

team also ensures consistent policy direction 

across the company.

Chris Ayers, Line Specialist, works to 
restore power in Bloomington, IN after  
an early 2007 ice storm.

21

QUALITY WORKFORCE

DIvERSITY AND INCLUSION

the population, such as women and people of 

An inclusive workplace is one where employee 

color, in areas such as finance, accounting and 

differences are valued, where people are 

engineering.

trusted to make good decisions and where 

they are able to connect with others across the 

Workforce Diversity Statistics

company to achieve superior business results.    

Duke Energy has a number of initiatives to 

support an inclusive culture. These include 

regular “Open Forums” with company leaders, 

extensive training offerings, work/life balance 

programs and employee resource groups such 

as the Business Women’s Network and Minority 

Professional Association.

A Diversity Council, comprised of a cross 

section of company representatives, provides 

oversight and direction for the company’s 

diversity and inclusion initiatives. Diversity 

Regular full-time employees as of  
Jan. 31, 2007

Females as percent of workforce

Females as percent of management

Ethnic Diversity

• Caucasian

• African American

• Hispanic

• Asian/Pacific Islander

• American Indian/Alaskan Native

• Not Identified*

Members of a collective  
bargaining unit

17,910

21.7%

17.5%

81.9%

10.6%

0.9%

0.8%

0.3%

5.5%

25.8%

* Duke Energy International employees for whom gender and race 

recruitment is aimed at particular segments of 

data are not captured.

TALENT DEvELOPMENT AND  

development courses in 2006. In addition, 

KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER

job-rotation programs, apprenticeships, develop-

A particular challenge for Duke 

ment planning and training in leadership, 

Energy, like many electric utilities, 

management and technical areas were held. We 

is that approximately 40 percent of 

also introduced Skillsoft E-learning, a new suite 

our employees will be eligible to 

of more than 2,700 computer-based training 

retire within the next five years. 

courses in information technology, business 

To address knowledge transfer 

skills and other subject areas. Available via the 

and retention, Jim Rogers has 

Internet, Skillsoft provides employees access to 

charged the top 50 leaders of 

training at any time, from any location.

Duke Energy with developing workforce 

plans that he will present to the board of 

WORK/LIFE BALANCE

directors in August.  

We recognize that our employees must balance 

work, home and community priorities and we 

To develop the skills of our team, we conducted 

offer a number of programs to help. Examples 

more than 2,400 training and professional 

include:

(Top to bottom) Rhonda Toodle, Customer Billing 
Information System Agent, processes service 
requests at the Customer Contact Center in 
Charlotte, NC.

Joseph Garcia, Senior Lineperson A, in full 
personal protective equipment, works out of  
our Todhunter district office near Monroe, OH.  

Kay Pashos, Vice President of Regulatory  
Strategy, is a key member of our Franchised 
Electric and Gas operating unit.

22

Wellness – Employee wellness programs 

mately 40 percent of employees. Here are 

include: education, medical screenings, risk 

headlines from the results: 

assessment and behavior modification (if  

•  Most employees expressed a high degree 

desired). We are also exploring new offerings 

of job satisfaction and saw 

such as smoking cessation and nutritional 

counseling. In 2007, Duke Energy will  

become an entirely smoke-free workplace.

Duke Energy as 

a performance-

based culture. 

•  Employees valued 

Compensation and Benefits – To compete for 

diversity to a 

the most talented employees, we have com-

pensation and benefits packages that include 

greater degree than 

in the past and at a 

competitive pay, vacation, a 401(k) retirement 

level that continued 

savings plan with company match and a retire-

to exceed national 

ment cash-balance pension plan.

norms.

•  Employees’ perception 

We also support the volunteer and educational 

of management ethics 

interests of our employees. For example, our 

Excellence in Education and Communities 

showed steady  

improvement.

program gives all full-time employees 10 

•  But, employees expressed 

hours of paid time off each year for activities at 

confusion and frustration over 

schools or to volunteer in their communities. 

merger integration issues and a 

series of workforce reductions.

Duke Energy goes well beyond legal require-

ments to support employees who serve in 

Results from the Employee Opinion 

the armed forces. All non-unionized, eligible 

Survey are shared broadly within the 

employees on approved military leave of 

company. For example, two of the 

absence are eligible to receive 100 percent 

2007 Charter imperatives respond to 

of their base pay for up to 52 weeks on a 

employee feedback:

continuous or intermittent basis and 75 percent 

•  Establish the identity and culture of the 

of base pay for up to an additional 104 weeks.

new Duke Energy, unifying our people, 

TOP TO BOTTOM

values, strategy, processes and systems.

Employee Opinion Survey – Since 1990, Duke 

•  Optimize our operations by focusing on 

Energy has systematically measured employee 

safety, simplicity, accountability, inclusion, 

opinions about the company. The 2006 survey, 

customer satisfaction, cost management and 

conducted after the merger, sampled approxi-

employee development.

(Left to right) Marcelo Flores, David Morgan, 
Bobby Morrison, Reggie Little, Distribution Line 
Technicians, with the diesel/electric hybrid 
service truck now being tested at our Matthews, 
NC operations center.

Sirlene Flores, Customer Service Specialist,  
uses her bilingual skills to assist customers.

Joe Miller, General Manager of Zimmer Station, 
near Moscow, OH.

23

STRONG COMMUNITIES
Help build strong communities

ChALLENGE

•  Help keep our service regions competitive 

with other locations so that they can attract 

and retain the people, services and job 

opportunities that make a community vibrant 

OPPORTUNITY

•  Duke Energy’s customer and community 

programs can help differentiate the regions 

we serve 

GOALS

•  Partner to stimulate economic growth in our 

communities by attracting 12,500 jobs and 

$2.4 billion in capital investment in 2007

•  Invest over $15 million annually in  

community programs that improve the 

quality of life in our communities

•  Implement tools for our communities that  

will support their long-term planning 

•  Develop and implement strategies to address 

future water issues that will arise from 

continued population growth in the Carolinas

•  Increase spending with diverse suppliers  

by 5 percent a year 

•  Implement initiatives to support public  

safety in our communities

s
e
i
t
i
n
u
m
m
o
c

g
n
o
r
t
s

2006 ECONOMIC DEvELOPMENT

Duke Energy was a key contributor to the 

economic growth of its service territories in 

2006. The three economic development 

regions – the Carolinas, Indiana and Greater 

Cincinnati – were instrumental in attracting 

new industry, helping existing customers 

expand and working with local communities  

to promote a favorable business environment. 

Our team of experienced business and 

economic developers had an extraordinary  

year and helped create more than 17,000  

new jobs and attract $5.1 billion in new  

capital investment across our service areas.

Citigroup, GSI Commerce Solutions, Pfizer, 

Poly-America and Fidelity are among the 

companies that chose Duke Energy-served 

sites for their expansion and relocation needs.  

Driven by efforts from our economic devel-

opment staff and state and local economic 

development professionals, we continued to 

diversify our economy by attracting high-wage 

and technology-intensive businesses. 

SUPPLIER DIvERSITY 

Duke Energy’s commitment to diversity extends 

beyond its employees to include suppliers, 

community organizations and our customers. 

We have a focused effort to identify and 

support businesses owned by women, minori-

ties and veterans. Our philosophy is that with 

a more diverse supplier base, we have stronger 

competition, which benefits our company and 

our communities.

2006 Diversity Expenditure* (in millions)

2005

2006

Increase over 2005

$132.1

$143.2

8.4%

*  “Diversity” means women-, minority-, and veteran-owned  

businesses. 

24

 
ENERGY ASSISTANCE 

company programs and campaigns, Duke 

2006 Consolidated GivinG

Duke Energy offers a number of initiatives 

Energy – and its people – contributed close to 

Each year, we aggregate all of the 

to assist low-income customers, including 

$29 million in 2006.

programs that help customers reduce costs 

by improving energy efficiency, as well as 

PUBLIC SAFETY

contributions made by Duke Energy, 

including Foundation and other cash 

contributions; in-kind gifts and services; 

programs and policies supporting energy 

Duke Energy has a number of programs to  

and the contributions and volunteerism of 

assistance.

educate the public about electric and gas 

our employees and retirees. In 2006, Duke 

safety. In 2006, we organized, updated and 

Energy giving totaled close to $29 million.

In 2006, over $10 million was contributed 

expanded our public safety information on a 

by Duke Energy, its customers, and the Duke 

number of topics, including: 

Energy Foundation to energy assistance 

• Call Before You Dig 

programs in the communities we serve. We 

• Report a Power Outage 

partner with social service agencies to admin-

• Report a Gas Leak 

ister the programs in order to make energy 

• Right of Way Management 

assistance part of an integrated response 

to customers in need. In some cases, our 

• Electric Safety 

• Gas Safety 

customers and our Foundation also contribute 

• Nuclear Emergency Preparedness 

funds for energy assistance.

• Contractors & First Responders Safety 

• Kids Safety 

The programs for energy assistance go by 

• Identifying a Duke Energy Employee

different names in the regions we serve:

•  North and South Carolina: Share the 

To learn more about any of these  

Warmth, Fan Relief and Cooling Assistance 

topics, please visit our Web site at:  

•  Ohio: HeatShare

•  Kentucky: WinterCare 

•  Indiana: Helping Hand

www.duke-energy.com/safety/.

Duke Energy concentrates its electric and natu-

ral gas safety messages on four main audience 

CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES

groups: contractors, emergency first respond-

In addition to providing safe and reliable energy 

ers, school children and customers. We offer 

and serving as a major employer, Duke Energy 

English and Spanish language booklets, videos, 

also contributes to its communities with chari-

decals, trainers’ guides and other materials 

table grants and volunteerism. 

upon request.

In 2006, charitable contributions totaled over 

We also continued radio, television and news-

$19 million. Adding in other company contribu-

paper safety messages, bill inserts and natural 

tions, in-kind donations, employee and retiree 

gas and electric safety demonstrations in our 

volunteer time and their contributions through 

service areas.

D

C

B

A

A

B

C

D

  Foundation Charitable Donations  65%

  Employee/Retiree Volunteer Time  16%

  Employee/Retiree Giving 

  Cash & In-Kind Goods/Services 

15%

4%

In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas 

continues to share its Bulk Power 

Marketing (BPM) profits through programs 

with industrial customers, the economic 

development community and public  

assistance agencies in the Carolinas. 

Charitable contributions from BPM  

profits to non-profit organizations in  

2006 totaled over $6.4 million. These 

grants benefitted energy assistance 

programs, the North Carolina Community 

College Grant Program and AdvanceSC  

for education in South Carolina.

25

STRONG COMMUNITIES

United WaY sUMMit aWaRd

United Way of America honored Duke 

Energy in 2006 with its Summit Award, 

recognizing the company’s commitment to 

improving local communities.

(Left to right) Vincent Davis, Director of Customer Operations, helps 
build a handicapped-accessible ramp and deck in Cincinnati, OH.

Eileen Olofson and Stephanie Liles, Office and Communications 
Services, help at a local food bank. 

Joe Needham, Senior Applications Systems Analyst, installs a new 
computer system at a youth camp near Indianapolis, IN.

DUKE ENERGY FOUNDATION

education; government or other non-profit 

The Duke Energy Foundation concentrates its 

programs supporting innovative solutions for 

grants in three areas: 

business, industry and workforce challenges.

•  Environment and Energy Efficiency –  

•  The Duke Energy Foundation provided the 

Grants for conservation, training, research 

lead gift to create the Charlotte Research 

and energy efficiency services.

Institute (CRI) at the University of North 

•  People Working Cooperatively is a non-

Carolina – Charlotte. CRI offers advanced 

profit organization in the Greater Cincinnati 

engineering and technical training to help 

area that provides critical home repairs 

transform our regional economy.   

and energy conservation services to low-

•  Community vitality – Contributions 

income and elderly residents. In addition 

supporting health and human services 

to Foundation funding, Duke Energy 

through United Way; arts and culture; 

employees volunteer their time and energy 

energy assistance; public safety; and 

to repair homes in the community.

community leadership development.

•  Economic Development – Funding for skills 

•  In 2006, Duke Energy employees, retirees 

development; pre-K-12 education focused 

and The Duke Energy Foundation pledged 

on math, science and technology; higher 

over $4.5 million to the United Way 

26

chapters in the communities we serve.  

While volunteerism is a year-round commit-

We also partner with the American Red 

ment at Duke Energy, we conduct an annual 

Cross to provide storm preparedness kits 

Global Service Event (GSE) to recognize and 

and disaster assistance.  

encourage volunteerism. In 2007, we will 

celebrate the 10th GSE in April and May. 

We recognize that every community is unique, 

with different challenges and strengths.  

GSE has become a popular way for us to  

Requests for company resources are received 

show the power of our teamwork, inspire 

and evaluated locally by our network of 70 

volunteerism and build our brand. During 

business relations managers. By listening and 

the 2006 GSE, employees and retirees spent 

responding to the varied needs of our commu-

approximately 15,000 hours planning and 

nities, these managers help match company 

participating in nearly 400 volunteer projects in 

resources with regional needs and share best 

almost 140 communities in the U.S. and Latin 

practices across our service areas. Guidelines 

America. Their efforts touched more than 290 

and an application for grant funding are  

different nonprofit organizations.

available at www.duke-energy.com/community/

foundation.asp. 

COMMUNITY PLANNING

vOLUNTEERISM

Sustainability is a concept that is good for 

business and communities. In partnership 

Volunteerism and civic leadership are important 

with Global Community Initiatives (www.

attributes of Duke Energy’s history and culture.  

global-community.org), we offer a Web-based 

It is part of what defines us as a company.  

tool to help civic leaders evaluate the “sustain-

Here are some statistics on the strength and 

able health” of their communities. Partici-

impact of our volunteer efforts in 2006:

pants respond to a series of questions about 

•  Total volunteer projects: 530 

their local governance practices and social, 

•  Volunteers participating: 8,000 (estimated)

economic and environmental conditions, 

•  Employee and retiree volunteer hours: 

and then receive feedback on their perfor-

268,800 (estimated)

mance based on best practices in community 

•  Number of charitable organizations  

planning. They also receive a list of resources 

reached: 375  

to further improve their performance. This  

•  Number of communities helped: 167 

tool is available on our Web site at www.duke-

energy/environment/sustainability.asp.

27

GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY
Be profitable and demonstrate strong governance and transparency

transparency

&
e
c
n
a
n
r
e
v
o
g

ChALLENGE

OPPORTUNITIES

•  Earn the trust of our stakeholders

•  Differentiate Duke Energy for its strong  

governance practices

•  Achieve synergies and competitive  

advantages from the Cinergy merger

GOALS

•  Provide investors a superior and sustainable 

industry peers and recommend revisions as 

return on their investment

appropriate

•  Assure that we have effective ethics and 

•  Assess our supply chain (services and 

compliance programs

products) from a sustainability perspective 

•  Regularly benchmark our corporate gover-

and implement appropriate follow-up actions 

nance practices against best-in-class and 

•  Communicate clearly and frequently with our 

stakeholders

PROFITABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY

Duke Energy believes that profitability is a 

•  The reduction in our risk profile by selling 

our unregulated power plants outside of 

prerequisite for sustainability. A business that 

the Midwest and by selling our Commercial 

isn’t profitable simply won’t be in business  

Marketing and Trading business.

for long.

In 2006, we transformed ourselves into a more 

sustainable company by unlocking our inherent 

value and reducing the risk in our business. 

Four actions contributed to this change:

•  The completion of our merger with Cinergy  

to grow the electric side of our business

•  The spinoff of our natural gas transmis-

sion and related business lines into Spectra 

Energy

•  The formation of a joint venture to manage 

our real estate business  

Financial Highlights (In millions except for per 
share data)*

Operating 
Revenues

Operating 
Expenses

Net Income

Earnings per 
Share, Diluted

Dividends per 
Share

Total Assets

2006

$15,184

2005

$16,297

$12,493

$13,416

$1,863

$1.57

$1,824

$1.88

$1.26

$1.17

$68,700

$54,723

*  Includes natural gas operations spun off to become Spectra 

Energy in January 2007.

28

 
 
 
INvESTORS’ RETURN

2007 is the 81st consecutive year that Duke Energy has paid a quarterly cash dividend.

Comparison of 2006 Total Return

Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return*

  30%

  15%

  0%

 $200

 $150

 $100

  $50

0

26.3% 

15.8% 

20.0%

  Dec. 01  Dec. 02  Dec. 03  Dec. 04  Dec. 05  Dec. 06

   Duke Energy Corporation (pre-spinoff  
  of Spectra Energy) 

  S&P 500 Index 

  Philadelphia Stock Exchange  

  Utility Sector Index

  $100.00  $51.80  $57.98  $75.50  $85.39  $107.81

  $100.00  $77.90  $100.25  $111.15  $116.61  $135.02

  $100.00  $81.65  $101.95  $128.57  $151.99  $182.44

  * Assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2001 in company common  

  stock and each index. Values are as of December 31 assuming dividends are  
  reinvested.

ContaCt infoRMation

Board of directors:

Julia Janson, Corporate Secretary

Duke Energy, EA 025

221 East Fourth Street

Cincinnati, OH  45202

Members of the public may also  

contact the company or the board  

through the Duke Energy Web site,  

www.duke-energy.com/contact/, or by 

phone: 704.594.6200 / 800.873.3853.

AN INDEPENDENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS

COMMUNICATING WITh ThE BOARD 

An effective board of directors is considered one 

Shareholders and other stakeholders can 

of the strongest indicators of shareholder value 

communicate with the lead director or any 

and good governance.

board member by writing to the corporate 

secretary, who forwards correspondence to 

Elected annually, the board consists of nine 

the appropriate director. In addition, the Audit 

outside members in addition to Jim Rogers, 

Committee has established a protocol for the 

Duke Energy’s chairman, president and CEO.  

receipt, retention and treatment of complaints 

Ann Maynard Gray serves as lead director.  

regarding accounting, internal accounting 

None of the outside directors has a material 

controls or auditing matters.  

relationship with Duke Energy or its subsid-

iaries, so the board is independent under 

EThICS INvESTIGATIONS

the listing standards of the New York Stock 

Duke Energy strives to provide an environment 

Exchange and the rules of the U.S. Securi-

where employees feel free to raise work-

ties and Exchange Commission. Additional 

related concerns without fear of intimidation 

members, expected to be named in 2007,  

or retaliation. The company has also retained 

will bring broader and more diverse perspec-

an independent provider to take concerns 

tives to the board.

from employees who are not comfortable with 

internal reporting options or who prefer to use 

Although all employees are subject to our  

the confidential Ethics Line to report anony-

Code of Business Ethics, Duke Energy’s 

mously. All allegations are investigated and the 

board of directors adopted a Code of Business 

results are reported to the Audit Committee of 

Conduct and Ethics to address the issues 

the board of directors.

unique to their responsibilities. That code is 

available at www.duke-energy.com/investors/

corporate-governance.asp.

29

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY

GloBal RepoRtinG initiative:

OUR GOvERNANCE PERFORMANCE

BRoad index to indiCatoRs

Several organizations rate the quality and performance of a corporation’s governance practices.  

We monitor the ratings of these three organizations as benchmarks for Duke Energy:

Rating Organization

Duke Energy Score

Scale

The Corporate Library (Feb. 15, 2007)1
TCL Rating
Governance Risk Assessment     
Governance Practices Compliance

Institutional Shareholder Services –  
Corporate Governance Quotient (Feb. 15, 2007)2
Index Ranking
Industry Ranking

GovernanceMetrics International (Dec. 2, 2006)3
Overall Global

B 
Low
93%

13.8
30.7

9.0

A-F (No E)
Low or High
0%-100% 

0-100
0-100

0-10

1 The TCL Rating, Governance Risk Assessment and Governance Practices Compliance Score values are published by permission from The  

Corporate Library, LLC. For further explanation and information, go to www.thecorporatelibrary.com.

2 The ISS CGQ scores are published by permission from Institutional Shareholder services. For further information, go to www.issproxy.com.

3 The GovernanceMetrics International score is published by permission from GovernanceMetrics International. For further information, go to  

www.gmiratings.com.

SUPPLY ChAIN

business with the same regard for fair dealing, 

Duke Energy adopted a Supplier Code of 

respect for the individual and the environment 

Conduct in 2006 to clearly establish our 

and quality service standards that we expect of 

expectations of the companies we do business 

ourselves. The Code is available at www.duke-

with. We expect our suppliers to conduct their 

energy.com/suppliers/code-of-conduct.asp.

Standard Disclosures

Pages 1-7, 28-31

Economic Indicators

Pages 18, 24-28

Environmental Indicators

Pages 11,12, 14-19

Product Responsibility Indicators

Pages 13,15

Labor Practices and  

Decent Work Indicators

Pages 20-23

Human Rights Indicators

Pages 7, 29

Society Indicators

Pages 4, 10-12, 18, 20, 25

A much more detailed index to all indica-

tors is available at www.duke-energy.

com/environment/sustainability.asp.

30

STAKEhOLDER ExPECTATIONS

Duke Energy is committed to balancing the interests of our stakeholders. We have several pathways 

and programs to hear and respond to stakeholders’ needs.

Stakeholders

Expectations

Fulfillments

Customers

Employees

• Reasonable costs
• Reliable supply
• Good customer service
• Safe operations
• Minimal air and water emissions
• Energy efficiency advice
• Community involvement

• Strong management systems
• Efficient cost control practices
• Business relations managers’ accessibility
• Customer satisfaction surveys 
• Environmental compliance
• Customer communication and  

Web site information

• Volunteerism

• Safe workplace
• Competitive pay and benefits
• Open communications
• Career development opportunities
• Fair and consistent treatment
• Strong corporate reputation

• Safe work practice policies and training
• The Portal (online corporate  

information resource)

• Career training and development
• Benchmarking with industry peers
• Open Forums with executives 
• Confidential ethics hotline
• Community involvement

Communities

• Community development
• Involvement with local initiatives
• Public safety
• Employment opportunities
• Volunteerism
• Rapid service restoration

• Business relations managers’ involvement  

in communities

• Economic development assistance
• Global Service Event and other volunteer efforts 
• Duke Foundation grants
• Cooperative service restoration agreements  

Suppliers

Investors

• Fair dealing
• Timely payment
• Opportunities to grow their 

businesses

with other utilities

• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Competitive bidding process
• Confidential ethics hotline
• Minority/women/veterans business  

procurement practices

• Competitive returns
• Strong board governance
• Management accountability
• Regulatory compliance
• Strong corporate reputation
• Transparent reporting

• Strong financial performance
• 81 years of cash dividends
• Comprehensive management and ethics policies
• www.duke-energy.com/investors
• Investment grade credit ratings
• Strong balance sheet

Regulators

• Reasonable cost and  

reliable supply

• Regulatory compliance
• Transparent reporting
• Collaborative policy debates
• Community involvement

• Effective management policies and systems
• “No surprises” practices
• Policy leadership

Non-Government 
Organizations

• Transparent reporting
• Accessibility
• Engage in problem-solving
• Research and policy leadership

• Partnerships and collaboratives on several issues 

and at various levels

• Annual sustainability and financial reports
• Joint research projects
• Stakeholder dialogues

Case stUdY in CollaBoRation:

CataWBa-WateRee hYdRo  

ReliCensinG

Duke Energy’s Catawba-Wateree 

Hydroelectric Project is the backbone 

of the company’s generation portfolio 

in the Carolinas, consisting of 13 hydro 

plants, 11 reservoirs and 225 river miles. 

The Catawba-Wateree system is also an 

important resource to the residents of the 

Piedmont Carolinas, touching 14 counties 

in North Carolina and South Carolina.

With its license for the Catawba-Wateree 

system approaching renewal, Duke Energy 

collaborated with regional stakeholders 

to develop recommendations to improve, 

balance and sustain the power and non-

power uses of the Catawba system for the 

next 40 to 50 years.

The relicensing agreement took more than 

three years to develop. More than 160 

representatives from over 80 organiza-

tions in the Carolinas participated in the 

process, attending more than 300 meet-

ings and analyzing  over 2,100 interests in 

the river. The Comprehensive Relicensing 

Agreement, filed with the Federal Energy 

Regulatory Commission in August 2006, 

was signed by 70 parties.

This collaboration is a powerful example 

of stakeholders finding common ground to 

protect and preserve the Catawba River. 

We’ve developed a summary case study 

of the process and its outcomes at: www.

duke-energy.com/pdfs/cw-brochure.pdf 

31

INDEPENDENT REVIEW

Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) reviewed 

•  More thorough and more explicit  

Cinergy’s 2004 and 2005 Sustainability Reports 

goal definition in the area of “strong  

prior to the merger with Duke Energy, and our 

communities.”

annual review has continued with the new Duke 

Energy. This year, we commented on an early 

In looking ahead to future reports, we 

report outline, facilitated a series of stakeholder 

encourage Duke Energy to strive for  

discussions on report content, and prepared  

the following:

this independent review of the final report. It 

•  Demonstrate progress on the goals set out 

should be noted that our review neither verifies 

in this report. We readily acknowledge the 

nor expresses an opinion on the accuracy, 

limitations Duke Energy faced this year in 

materiality or completeness of the information 

integrating the sustainability performance of 

provided in this report.

two previously separate companies, and the 

need for better, more quantitative measure-

This year, we are particularly impressed with the:

ments moving forward. In future reports, we 

•  Sustainability Context –The CEO letter 

look forward not only to a careful review of 

succinctly identifies the most pressing societal 

Duke Energy’s performance against existing 

issues for Duke Energy and links these issues 

and soon-to-be-created benchmarks, but 

to the company’s operations and activities. 

also insightful examples of how the goals are 

Of these, the company’s aggressive stance 

being achieved across business units and at 

on climate change policy distinguishes it as a 

the front-lines with customers, employees 

sustainability leader among American utilities.

and communities.

•  Balance – In addition to highlighting 

•  Address how the company will respond to 

successes, Duke Energy speaks frankly about 

stakeholder concerns about coal and nuclear 

failures in sustainability performance – for 

generation. In this year’s report, Duke Energy 

example, in the area of safety – and clearly 

articulated the case for increasing base load 

outlines how it plans to rectify these failures. 

generation and identified the various alterna-

The company also shares ongoing challenges 

tives it is considering. These decisions are 

associated with the merger, including 

clearly complex and potentially very conten-

employee frustration and the need for stronger 

tious for stakeholders. While we know that 

measures of sustainability performance in  

Duke Energy does engage with stakeholders 

the future.

on these issues, we want to hear more in 

•  Response to Stakeholder Feedback – Since 

next year’s report about the process and the 

BSR reviewed earlier versions of the report,  

results of engagement, as well as the steps 

we can highlight Duke Energy’s efforts to 

Duke Energy is taking to respond to any 

respond to stakeholder feedback in the final 

health, safety, and environmental concerns 

version, including:

associated with coal and nuclear generation.

•  More coverage of policy and technological 

responses to climate change.

•  More information about the company’s 

Anamaria Nino-Murcia

investment in research and development, 

Manager, Energy & Extractives Program

particularly clean technologies.

Business for Social Responsibility

March 23, 2007

32

foRWaRd-lookinG stateMent
This report includes statements that do not directly or 
exclusively relate to historical facts. Such statements are 
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 
27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. One can typically identify 
forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking 
words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, 
estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other 
similar words. Those statements represent Duke Energy’s 
intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs 
about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties 
and other factors, many of which are outside Duke Energy’s 
control and could cause actual results to differ materially 
from the results expressed or implied by those forward-look-
ing statements. Those factors include: state, federal and 
foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost 
and investment recovery, have an impact on rate structures, 
and affect the speed at and degree to which competition en-
ters the electric and natural gas industries; the outcomes of 
litigation and regulatory investigations, proceedings or inqui-
ries; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke 
Energy’s service territories; additional competition in Duke 
Energy’s markets and continued industry consolidation; 
the influence of weather on company operations, including 
the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes, 
tornados or other natural phenomena; the timing and extent 
of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign 
currency exchange rates; general economic conditions, 
including any potential effects arising from terrorist attacks 
and any consequential hostilities; changes in environmental 
and other laws and regulations to which Duke Energy and 
its subsidiaries are subject; the results of financing efforts, 
including Duke Energy’s ability to obtain financing on 
favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, 
including Duke Energy’s credit ratings and general economic 
conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities 
and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy’s 
defined benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthiness 
of counterparties to Duke Energy’s transactions; the amount 
of collateral required to be posted from time to time in Duke 
Energy’s transactions; growth in opportunities for Duke 

ContaCt infoRMation
We welcome your comments and questions about this 
report. Send any feedback to:

Roberta Bowman, Vice President,  
Sustainability and Community Affairs
526 South Church Street
Mail Code: EC03H
Charlotte, NC 28202
rbowman@duke-energy.com

Energy’s business units, including the timing and success 
of efforts to develop domestic and international power; the 
performance of electric generation facilities; the effect of ac-
counting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting 
standard-setting bodies; the ability to successfully complete 
merger, acquisition or divestiture plans, including the prices 
at which Duke Energy is able to sell assets; and the success 
of the business following a merger, acquisition or divestiture.

In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the 
events described in the forward-looking statements might 
not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different 
time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy under-
takes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise. Information contained in this 
report is unaudited, and is subject to change.

non-Gaap finanCial MeasURe

foReCasted 2007 onGoinG  
seGMent and total seGMent eBit
This report includes a discussion of forecasted 2007 ongoing 
EBIT for each of Duke Energy’s reportable segments as a 
percentage of forecasted 2007 ongoing total segment EBIT. 
Forecasted 2007 ongoing segment and total segment EBIT 
amounts are non-GAAP financial measures, as they reflect 
segment and total segment EBIT, adjusted for the impact of 
special items. Special items represent certain charges and 
credits which management believes will not be recurring 
on a regular basis. The most directly comparable GAAP 
measure for forecasted ongoing segment EBIT is reported 
segment EBIT from continuing operations, which includes 
the impact of special items. The most directly comparable 
GAAP measure for ongoing total segment EBIT is reported 
total segment EBIT, which includes the impact of special 
items. Due to the forward-looking nature of these non-GAAP 
financial measures for future periods, information to recon-
cile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly 
comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at 
this time, as management is unable to forecast any special 
items for any future periods.

INSIDE BACK COVER 
Path at Riverbend Park in Catawba County, NC. Photo courtesy of 
Thomas Wyche.

ON THE BACK COVER (Top to bottom) 
Bobby Morrison, Distribution Line Technician, installs new equipment.

In conjunction with People Working Cooperatively, Rachelle Caldwell, 
Public and Community Affairs Manager, and Kim Glenn, Distribution 
Design Supervisor, prepare to landscape the home belonging to a 
low-income customer. 

Duke Energy line crews prepare to leave in response to a call  
for mutual assistance for storm damage repair.

PRINTING INFORMATION: 
This report was printed in the USA on Neenah Environment paper.  
At least 20 percent of the fiber content is certified to have come from 
responsibly managed forests and is elemental chlorine free. The 
remaining 80 percent is composed of post-consumer fiber and is 
process chlorine free. 

 
Duke Energy
526 South Church Street
Charlotte, NC 28202

www.duke-energy.com

