Bringing the future to light.

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Table of 
Contents

About This Report  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3

A Message From Our CEO  .  .  .  .  .  . 4

Duke Energy At A Glance   .  .  .  .  .  . 7

Management Approach to 
Sustainability  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9

Our Value Creation Model  .  .  .  .  . 10

Stakeholder Engagement And 
What Matters Most  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12

Our Sustainability Plan  
And Goals  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14

Customers  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16

Growth  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24

Operations  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32

Environmental Metrics  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41

Employees  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44

2016 Recognitions

 For the 11th consecutive year, Duke Energy was named to the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North America.

 The Newsweek Green Rankings, “Top Green Companies in the 
U.S. 2016,” ranked Duke Energy No. 107 (No. 5 in our industry, 
in the top quartile of electric utilities), up from 111 in 2015.

 Black Enterprise Magazine named Duke Energy to its “2016 
50 Best Companies for Diversity.”

 Site Selection magazine named Duke Energy to its “Top Utilities 
in Economic Development” list for the 12th consecutive year.

 The Progressive Policy Institute named Duke Energy to the 
Top 25 “Investment Heroes 2016: Fighting Short-Termism,”  
with the No. 10 rank for long-term domestic capital spending  
that is helping raise productivity and wages.

 Duke Energy, a founding member of the Electric Utility Industry 
Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance, was recognized as that 
organization’s 2016 Member of the Year.

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 2 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
Diane Denton  /  Director Environmental & Energy Policy and Sustainability

About This Report

Duke Energy’s 11th Sustainability Report continues our tradition of disclosure and transparency 
about how we do business – and how we strive to benefit the communities we serve.

Anticipating changes in the industry drives us at Duke Energy. We are currently expanding renewable  
generation, transitioning from coal to natural gas, reducing our environmental footprint and modernizing  
our energy grid to support new technologies. We have public goals in this report to make sure we 
head down the right path – the one to a cleaner, more affordable and reliable energy future.

But just as important as our operational activities, is our engagement with stakeholders. They 
remind us that Duke Energy touches many areas of our society outside of delivering energy. There 
are many examples in this year’s report where partnering with others yielded notable results.

Sustainability is engrained at Duke Energy. We continue to fine-tune our business approach to 
take advantage of new technologies and improve innovation to make sure we exceed customer 
expectations. This goes hand-in-hand with our focus on the communities we serve, operational 
excellence, employee engagement and development.

There is one difference with this year’s report. In keeping pace with leading companies, we are 
producing it as a web-only document, with a PDF version available for printing. This will lower the 
report’s overall environmental impact. It may be a small change, but every little bit helps.

As always, you can find a detailed Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index on our website. The GRI is 
a recognized international framework for sustainability reporting. 

Enjoy our new report. Thank you for your interest in Duke Energy.

Diane Denton 
Director Environmental &  
Energy Policy and Sustainability

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 3 /

Lynn J. Good  /  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

A Message From Our CEO

Providing safe, reliable and affordable power is at the heart of what we do. But thanks to changing 
social priorities, new technologies and alternative energy sources, customers have new and higher 
expectations of what they want from their energy provider. 

Today, how we make energy matters. People expect that we will produce and deliver power in ways 
that protect the environment and the communities we serve.  

Duke Energy has a clear, compelling strategy to deliver value to our stakeholders in this environment 
and our commitment to sustainability is woven throughout our approach. 

Maintaining Safe Operations

Our dedication to safety, operational and environmental excellence is unwavering. Any success  
starts here. We improved on our industry-leading performance from 2015. We had no work- 
related fatalities last year and reduced our total incident case rate. Also, we reduced the number  
of significant injuries. That’s a record of performance to be proud of and I have our employees  
to thank.

Our employees improved our safety performance while meeting the energy needs of our customers. 
They did this despite demanding weather and a summertime usage record in the Carolinas.  
In 2016, our nuclear fleet increased its capacity factor to 95.7 percent. That’s a new record  
and the 18th consecutive year our capacity factor was above 90 percent.

This commitment to excellence also extends to environmental stewardship. Our reportable 
environmental events dropped by 17 percent in 2016. We increased our recycling efforts last year 
and remain on track to recycle 80 percent of our solid waste by 2018. We also made tremendous 
progress closing our coal ash basins. Last year, we excavated and stored over 5 million tons of 
coal ash in North Carolina. We also published basin closure plans across our service areas and 
announced two coal ash reprocessing locations, with one more to come. 

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 4 /

Modernizing Our Grid

Our energy grid, the largest in the United States, is a critical part of our nation’s infrastructure. 
We are investing $25 billion over 10 years to create a smarter, more modern grid that delivers the 
services our customers expect. Today, the grid stands as a one-way road. In the future, it must 
become a multilane highway, sending energy and information in both directions.  

Our investment will help us reduce outages and accelerate restoration, and allow customers to 
better manage their energy usage. It will also enable the system to support more renewable energy 
resources and emerging technologies such as battery storage. 

Duke Energy has a clear, compelling strategy to deliver value  
to our stakeholders in this environment and our commitment 
to sustainability is woven throughout our approach.

We have installed smart meters in the Midwest, have deployed the technology in the Carolinas and 
will start in Florida soon. So far, we have saved millions of dollars for customers by automating 
processes and reducing trips to start and stop service. Last year alone, we saved over 50 million 
outage minutes for customers, a twofold increase.

Generating Cleaner Energy

More and more, we’re generating cleaner energy. We have retired older coal units and invested in 
natural gas generation and renewables. And we continue to operate our carbon-free nuclear plants. 
Since 2005, our efforts have reduced our carbon dioxide emissions by 29 percent. 

And we are not finished. By 2030, we plan to reduce our carbon emissions by 40 percent from our 
2005 levels. We also plan to reduce our carbon intensity – the amount of carbon dioxide emitted 
per kilowatt-hour of energy produced – by 45 percent. 

We will meet these goals, in part, by investing $11 billion in natural gas and renewables over the 
next 10 years, as well as in the infrastructure necessary to supply our plants and customers with 
cleaner, low-cost fuel. 

These investments complement our expanding renewable portfolio. We have spent more than 
$5 billion over the past 10 years in commercial renewables. When combined with our regulated 
renewables, we’re one of the nation’s top five renewable energy companies. As of year-end 2016, 
we owned or had under contract over 5,400 megawatts of wind, solar and biomass energy. 

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 5 /

Focusing on Customers and Communities

The customer remains at the center of everything we do. We are updating our technology 
infrastructure to give our customers smarter, more advanced solutions. For example, they can  
now receive proactive outage updates via voice, text or email as well as high bill alerts. 

Even as we transform Duke Energy, we continue to keep energy costs low. Last year, our electric 
rates were below the national average for customers in all six states we serve. We are also helping 
customers save energy. Our energy efficiency programs, from in-home energy reports to free LED 
bulbs, have played a part in reducing customer energy consumption by more than 12,000 gigawatt-
hours as of year-end 2016.

We are committed to powering the lives of our customers and 
the vitality of our communities. That’s our purpose, and our 
focus on sustainability helps us keep this promise.

Our commitment extends beyond the services we provide. We are proud to be an economic engine 
for our communities we call home. Last year, we helped attract $4.1 billion in capital investment 
in our service territories. That led to the creation of over 14,000 jobs. We are also active through 
our philanthropic efforts. In 2016, Duke Energy and Piedmont’s total charitable giving was over 
$53 million. This included $33.5 million in direct giving by our Foundations, as well as company 
contributions and in-kind gifts, volunteer hours and contributions from employees and retirees to  
our communities.

Our focus on the customer has led to improvements in customer satisfaction. Yet we have more to 
do. Our goal is simple: we want to move into the first quartile in the next five years. We have a plan 
to do that and maintain that position for years to come.

Today’s Duke Energy

We are committed to powering the lives of our customers and the vitality of our communities.  
That’s our purpose, and our focus on sustainability helps us keep this promise. 

Today’s Duke Energy is leading the way in a dynamic environment. How we are responding is 
delivering results and defining the future of our company and the communities we serve. This is  
our path forward and we are charging ahead with confidence.

Sincerely,

Lynn J. Good 
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer

April 7, 2017

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 6 /

Duke Energy At A Glance

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure

Natural Gas Customer Diversity

Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1 

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure conducts natural gas distribution 
operations primarily through the regulated public utilities of  
Piedmont Natural Gas and Duke Energy Ohio .

Natural Gas Operations3

Generated (net output gigawatt-hours (GWh))2

Customer Diversity (in billed GWh sales)2

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure conducts operations primarily 
through the regulated public utilities of Duke Energy Carolinas,  
Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana  
and Duke Energy Ohio . 

Electric Operations
  Owns approximately 49,300 megawatts (MW) of generating capacity

   Service area covers about 95,000 square miles with an estimated 

population of 24 million 

   Service to approximately 7 .5 million residential, commercial and 

industrial customers 

   268,700 miles of distribution lines and a 32,200-mile  

transmission system

1  As of December 31, 2016 .

2  For the year ended December 31, 2016 .

3  Chart reflects the three months for which Piedmont was owned by Duke Energy  
in 2016, and 12 months for other existing Duke Energy natural gas operations .

   Regulated natural gas transmission and distribution services to 

approximately 1 .6 million customers in the Carolinas, Tennessee, 
southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky

   Maintains more than 32,900 miles of natural gas transmission  
and distribution pipelines, and 26,600 miles of natural gas  
service pipelines

Duke Energy Renewables

Generation Diversity (percent owned capacity)1

Duke Energy Renewables primarily acquires, develops, builds  
and operates wind and solar renewable generation throughout  
the continental U .S . The portfolio includes nonregulated renewable 
energy and energy storage assets .

Duke Energy Renewables, part of the Commercial Renewables 
business segment, includes utility-scale wind and solar generation 
assets, which total 2,900 MW across 14 states from 21 wind and 
63 solar projects . The power produced from renewable generation 
is primarily sold through long-term contracts to utilities, electric 
cooperatives, municipalities and commercial and industrial customers .

As part of its growth strategy, Duke Energy Renewables has 
expanded its investment portfolio through the addition of distributed 
solar companies and projects, energy storage systems and energy 
management solutions specifically tailored to commercial businesses 
and other institutions .

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 7 /

 38% Natural Gas/Fuel Oil 37% Coal 18% Nuclear 7% Hydro and Solar35% Coal 35% Nuclear 29% Natural Gas/Fuel Oil 1% Hydro and Solar 32% Residential 30% General Services 20% Industrial 18% Wholesale/Other31% Power Generation25% Residential22% General Services14% Wholesale/Other  9% Industrial 79% Wind 21% SolarDuke Energy At A Glance continued

Maps of Operations

Service Territories

Counties Served*

 Duke Energy Indiana

 Duke Energy Ohio/Kentucky

 Duke Energy Carolinas/Progress

 Piedmont Natural Gas

 Overlapping territory

 Duke Energy Florida

*Portions may be served by other utilities .

Commercial Renewable 
Projects

Solar and Wind

 Solar power projects

 Wind power projects

 Battery storage facility

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 8 /

Management Approach to Sustainability

Sustainability Governance

Board of Directors

Senior Business Leaders

Provides risk management oversight and regular 
reviews of key sustainability issues.

Accountable for applicable sustainability goals and 
integrating sustainability into respective areas.

Chief Executive Officer

Sustainability Corps Members

Ultimate responsibility for the company’s  
sustainability strategy and long-term success.

Specially trained employees who provide local support 
and advocacy for sustainable business practices.

Vice President, Federal Government Affairs  
and Strategic Policy

Responsible for sustainability initiatives and 
coordination with senior business leaders to integrate 
sustainable business practices across the company.

Employees

Implement departmental initiatives and identify local 
sustainability opportunities.

About Our Data 

Global Reporting Initiative 

This report contains the best data available at time 
of publication. Environmental and social data can be 
challenging to accurately measure. We correct and 
report errors in prior-year data when found, and we 
work to continually improve our data measurement, 
gathering and reporting processes to increase the 
integrity of information presented. Although we did 
not complete the acquisition until October 3, 2016, 
this report includes Piedmont Natural Gas data where 
applicable, except where noted.

The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a recognized 
international framework for economic, environmental 
and social performance disclosure. We provide a 
detailed response to GRI indicators on our website, 
including indicators in GRI’s Electric Utilities Sector 
Supplement. Sections of this report with information 
responsive to the GRI indicators/disclosures include 
the following:

   General/Standard: Introduction Section (See pages 
2-13), Our Sustainability Plan and Goals Section 
(See pages 14-15)

   Economic: Customers Section (See pages 16-23), 

Growth Section (See pages 24-31)

   Environmental: Operations Section (See pages 32-

43), Growth Section (See pages 24-31) 

   Social: Employees Section (See pages 44-49), 

Customers Section (See pages 16-23)

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 9 /

Our Value Creation Model 

Major Resources 

Creating value starts 
with the basics. It takes 
materials and water from 
the earth, and dedicated 
employees who create 
the value chain for  
Duke Energy.

Evolving  
Business  
Model 

As technology and 
customers’ expectations 
evolve, Duke Energy 
is also evolving by 
investing in innovative 
new solutions that 
help customers use 
energy more wisely 
and reduce their overall 
consumption. The 
company is focused 
on providing the 
convenience and control 
that customers want.

~$22.7b
Revenue

28,800
Employees

5,341b
Gallons H2O 
withdrawn

545b
Cubic feet  
natural gas

31.7m
Tons coal

660
Solar

17,948
Coal

2,311
Wind

50,092 
MW

18,908
Natural gas/oil

1,415
Hydro- 
electric

8,850
Nuclear

n
o
i
t
a
c
i
n
u
m
m
o
c

d
n
a

a
t
a
D

.
y
l
k
c
i
u
q

e
r
o
m
n
o
i
t
a
m
r
o
f
n

i

e
r
o
m

t
n
a
w
s
r
e
m
o
t
s
u
C

C
h
a
n
g
n
g

i

c

u

s

t

o

m

e

r

e

x

p

32,200
Transmission line miles

32,900 Miles natural  
gas pipelines and  
26,600 Miles of  
gas service lines

268,700
Distribution line miles

~1.6m
Natural gas 
meters

Energy 
efficiency

Energy 
storage

Solar
Panels

7.5m
Electric   
meters

Electric 
vehicles

e

ct

ations

Generation

Our diverse energy mix 
is one of Duke Energy’s 
strong points. 

Transmission

Moving electricity  
from power plants  
to customers –  
a vital part  
of Duke Energy. 

Distribution

New technologies  
mean Duke Energy  
must adjust how  
it delivers to  
customers – it’s not  
one-size-fits-all. 

Impacts and  
Value Created  
on next page

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 10 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Value Creation Model continued

Impacts 

Generating energy 
creates environmental 
and other impacts.  
Duke Energy works hard 
to minimize them. Our 
track record over the 
past decade is good,  
but there’s always  
room for improvement.

Value Created 

We power the lives 
of our customers and 
the vitality of our 
communities. In 2016, 
Duke Energy’s revenues 
were $22.7 billion.  
Duke Energy also 
supports communities 
with the taxes it 
pays, as well as 
through philanthropic 
contributions and 
employee volunteerism.

1
Serious injury

Wastes

3,970
Gallons
oil spilled

21,570  
Thousand lbs
TRI (Toxic Release 
Inventory) releases

Air emissions

74b
Gallons H2O 
consumed

200,667 
Cubic feet
low-level  
radioactive  
waste  
generated

570
Tons  
hazardous  
waste  
generated

24,500
Tons  
solid  
waste  
disposed

72
Thousand  
tons NOX

61
Thousand  
tons SO2

106,763
Thousand  
tons CO2

~$10.2b
Value to 
suppliers

>$6b
Investment in
communities

~$3.8b
Salaries
and benefits

202m
MCF
Natural gas

99.97%
Reliability

219m
MWh

~$4.1b
Dividends  
and interest  
for investors

$53.6m 
Philanthropy

~$1.9b 
Taxes

~160k
Businesses

~1.4m
Homes

~1m
Businesses

~6.6m
Homes

Helped  
Attract   
$4.1b 
Economic  
development

The information presented here is meant to provide an overview of Duke Energy and is not meant to be precise or inclusive of all the company’s inputs and outputs . Please see the  
2016 Duke Energy Annual Report on Form 10-K for detailed notes and further explanations of financial information and this Sustainability Report for more social and environmental information .

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 11 /

Stakeholder Engagement and What Matters Most

The safety of our employees, customers and communities is our number  
one priority.

Stakeholder Engagement

What Matters Most

Duke Energy’s approach to sustainability focuses on 
the issues that are most important to our stakeholders 
and to us. We identify issues from a variety of sources 
such as surveys, stakeholder feedback, thought leader 
perspectives, social and traditional media coverage, 
and shareholder proposals in our sector.

The graphic depicts the relationship among  
Duke Energy, its stakeholders and the most  
important issues as overlapping circles within 
circles to show that they are interconnected. 
The stakeholders and issues are both arranged 
alphabetically to make it clear that they are all 
important while safety, as always, is number one.

Stakeholder engagement is a key to Duke Energy’s 
success, and a vital tool to help make our company 
an even stronger community partner. 

During 2016, we updated and expanded our 
stakeholder engagement tools and deployed them 
companywide. We also created an External Relations 
Council comprised of company leaders to improve 
coordination and alignment of stakeholder interactions 
at the national, state and local levels. 

A key challenge is our stakeholders often have 
divergent views. What is a high priority to some isn’t 
as important to others. 

But our experience shows that collaborating with 
stakeholders leads to better outcomes. No matter  
how complex the issue, we aim for the right long- 
term balance that will strengthen trust and  
confidence in our company and help us transition  
to cleaner, smarter energy solutions for our customers 
and communities.

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 12 /

What Matters Most continued

            Trade
         Associations

Reliable  
Energy

Innovative 
Products & 
Services

Ethics & 
Compliance

              Media

Academia

Risk 
Management

     Safety

      Water  
   Quality &      
  Availability 

    Communities

Affordable 
Energy

                        Customers

Air  

    Emissions

  Biodiversity   
 & Habitat  
 Protection

       Local, State  
         & Federal  
      Government

  Employee 
   Development  
  & Engagement

Safety Is Our No. 1 Priority

Climate  
Change
                        Employees

     Economic 
  Development

  Labor 
  Unions

Community 
Engagement

        Environmental 
       Advocates

Diversity & 
Inclusion

Cybersecurity

   Customer 
Engagement

 Investors

KEY

  Our Stakeholders
  What Matters Most

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 13 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
    
Our Sustainability Plan and Goals

GOAL  
STATUS

  Achieved or on track
   Currently not on track
  Goal not achieved

1 
CUSTOMERS

2 
GROWTH

Improve the lives of our customers and  
vitality of our communities .

Grow and adapt the business  
and achieve our financial objectives .

GOALS: 

GOALS: 

 Affordable energy: Maintain electric rates lower than the  

national averages .

2016 status: Duke Energy’s electric rates in all six states we serve 
were lower than the national average in all three customer categories 
(residential, commercial and industrial) . (See related graphic on page 18: 
“Duke Energy’s Electric Rates: Below U .S . Average .”)

 Energy efficiency – consumption: Achieve a cumulative 

reduction in customer energy consumption of 15,000 GWh (equivalent to 
the annual usage of 1 .25 million homes) by 2020 .

2016 status: As of year-end 2016, energy consumption was reduced by 
more than 12,000 GWh .

 Energy efficiency – peak demand (previous goal): Achieve a 
cumulative reduction in peak demand of 4,800 MW (equivalent to eight 
600-MW power plants) by 2020 .

2016 status: As of year-end 2016, peak demand was reduced by more 
than 4,800 MW .

New goal: Achieve a cumulative reduction in peak demand of 5,250 MW 
(equivalent to nearly nine 600-MW power plants) by 2020 .

Potential changes in state energy efficiency rules and requirements, and 
changes to utility avoided costs may have an impact on our future energy 
efficiency goals .

 Charitable giving: During 2016, the Duke Energy Foundation will 

invest over $30 million in charitable giving .

2016 status: The Duke Energy and Piedmont Natural Gas Foundations 
contributed $33 .5 million . Total 2016 Charitable Giving was $53 .6 million . 
(See related graphic on page 20: “2016 Charitable Giving .”)

 Community leader ratings: During 2016, conduct a community 
leader study across all of our service territories to maintain insight into 
our performance with this important customer segment .

2016 status: The Community Leader Study was launched in October 
2016 and achieved reasonably high response rates . Community Leaders 
reported overall satisfaction ratings ranging from 84 to 98% across 
all Duke Energy jurisdictions . Results showed high satisfaction with 
our reliable service, customer service and community support . Areas 
for improvement included rates/high bills, outage performance and 
environmental performance .

 Economic development (previous goal): Stimulate growth in 
our communities and help attract at least 40,000 jobs and $10 billion in 
capital investments from 2013 to 2017 .  

2016 status: Since 2013, Duke Energy helped our communities attract 
more than 50,000 jobs and over $14 billion in capital investments to our 
service territories .  

New goal: Stimulate growth in our communities and help attract at least 
40,000 jobs and $10 billion in capital investments from 2017 to 2021 .

 Total shareholder return (TSR): Outperform other investor-owned 

utilities in TSR, annually and over a three-year period, as measured by 
the Philadelphia Utility Index (UTY) .

2016 status: Duke Energy’s TSR was 13 .5% in 2016, compared to the 
UTY return of 17 .4% . Over three years, our annualized TSR was 8 .6%, 
compared to the annualized UTY return of 12 .4% . Despite solid returns  
to our investors, we have trailed the UTY due to the uncertainty 
associated with our portfolio transition . With our portfolio transition 
complete, we are now focused on executing our regulated growth  
strategy for years to come .

 Renewables: Own or contract 8,000 MW of wind, solar and biomass 

by 2020 .

2016 status: As of year-end 2016, Duke Energy owned or had under 
contract over 5,400 MW of wind, solar and biomass .

 Governance: Keep abreast of developments regarding corporate 

governance principles and recommend internal improvements  
as appropriate .

2016 status: We continued to enhance our engagement with  
shareholders on environmental, social and governance issues . To open 
participation to shareholders worldwide, we are holding Duke Energy’s 
2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders exclusively online via webcast .  
We are also providing an online, interactive proxy statement to make it 
easier for our shareholders to access and review the information in the 
proxy statement . 

 Transparency: Achieve top-quartile performance in disclosure, as 
measured by Bloomberg Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Disclosure Scores for our industry .

2016 status: As of April 6, 2017, Duke Energy had a Bloomberg ESG 
Disclosure Score of 61 .5, the highest score among our peer U .S . utilities  
in the Bloomberg listing .

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 14 /

Our Sustainability Plan and Goals continued

GOAL  
STATUS

  Achieved or on track
   Currently not on track
  Goal not achieved

3 
OPERATIONS

Excel in safety, operational performance  
and environmental stewardship .

GOALS: 

 Safety – fatalities: Achieve zero 

work-related fatalities .

2016 status: In 2016, there were no 
work-related employee or contractor fatalities .

 Safety – incident rate: Maintain 

top-decile safety performance in employee Total 
Incident Case Rate (TICR) .

2016 status: We improved employee TICR to 
0 .40 in 2016 from 0 .41 in 2015, and were in the 
top decile of our industry peers in 2015 (when 
latest industry data were available) .

Reliable energy – generation: During 2016, 
maintain the high reliability of our generation 
fleet with a nuclear capacity factor of at least 
94 .1%, fossil commercial availability of at least 
86 .9%, and renewables commercial availability 
of at least 96% .

2016 status: The generation fleet consistently 
met customer demand, but did not meet all of 
its goals .

 Nuclear: Capacity factor improved to 95 .7%, 

from 94 .2% in 2015 .

 Fossil: Commercial availability was 84 .7%, 

down from 87 .4% in 2015 .

 Commercial renewables: Commercial 
availability improved to 94 .2%, up from 93 .3% 
in 2015 .

 Reliable energy – power delivery: 
During 2016, maintain the high reliability of our 
distribution system with an average number of 
outages* of 1 .14 or less, and an average time 
without power* of 126 minutes or less . 

2016 status: Average number of outages was 
1 .17, and average time without power was  
144 minutes .
* Outages longer than 5 minutes, per customer .

 Carbon – emissions (previous goal): 
Reduce or offset carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions 
from our generation fleet 17% from 2005 
emissions by 2020 .

2016 status: Our generation fleet emitted about 
107 million tons of CO2, a reduction of 29% .
New goal: Reduce the CO2 emissions from our 
generation fleet by 40% from the 2005 level by 2030 .

 Carbon – intensity (previous goal): 
Reduce the carbon intensity (pounds of CO2 
emitted per net kilowatt-hour (kWh) of electricity 
produced) of our generation fleet from 1 .29 in 
2005 to 0 .94 by 2020 .

2016 status: Generation carbon intensity was 
0 .97 in 2016, a reduction of nearly 25% .

New goal: Reduce the carbon intensity (pounds 
of CO2 emitted per net kWh of electricity 
produced) of our generation fleet by 45% from 
the 2005 level by 2030 (equates to a reduction 
from 1 .29 to 0 .71 pounds of CO2 per net kWh) .

 Solid waste: Increase the percentage of 
solid waste that is recycled from 69% in 2013 to 
80% in 2018 . (This goal excludes Duke Energy 
Renewables and Piedmont Natural Gas .)

2016 status: About 76% of solid waste 
produced was recycled .

 Coal ash management (updated goal): 

Complete development and assessment of 
closure options, implement site closure plans in 
accordance with regulatory requirements, and 
safely move and store 20 million tons of coal ash 
from the high priority N .C . sites by 2019 .

2016 status: At year-end 2016, 24 closure site 
plans had been developed, as tentative closure 
solutions, pending regulatory approvals . During 
2016, we safely moved over 5 million tons of 
coal ash bringing the total amount removed from 
high priority N .C . sites and stored in approved 
facilities to 8 .7 million tons .

4 
EMPLOYEES

Develop and engage employees  
and strengthen leadership .

GOALS: 

Overall goal: Foster a high-performance and 
inclusive culture built on strong leadership and 
highly engaged and diverse employees .

Employee engagement:  
New goal: Strive for employee and manager 
engagement levels of 70% and 75%, 
respectively, by 2020, based on survey results .

 Employee enablement and 
performance: Implement tools that  
promote employee recognition, performance  
and accountability .

2016 status: Improved the performance 
management system with a new rating scale 
and an increased emphasis on collaborative 
goal setting, development planning and ongoing 
conversations . The online tool has also been 
simplified to be more user-friendly and efficient .

 Diversity and inclusion: Strengthen our 

diversity and inclusion framework as well as 
support a workforce in transition .

2016 status: Developed a new diversity 
and inclusion strategy that is more aligned 
and integrated into the business . Piloted a 
successful program on unconscious bias with 
75 leaders across the company that will be 
expanded in 2017 . In response to civil unrest in 
Charlotte, N .C ., hosted a series of facilitated 
conversations with employees, called “Pathways 
to Inclusion .”

 Leadership: Advance leadership 

capabilities and bench strength .

2016 status: Introduced “Leading the  
Duke Energy Way,” a document that describes 
the leadership imperatives and associated 
behaviors all employees must embody to  
achieve the company’s strategy . Also  
launched the Duke Energy Leadership  
Academy to offer a variety of learning and 
development opportunities aligned to the 
leadership imperatives .

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 15 /

1 
CUSTOMERS

Improve the Lives 
of Our Customers  
and Vitality of  
Our Communities

2016 Highlights

 As of year-end 2016, customer energy consumption and peak 
demand were reduced by more than 12,000 gigawatt-hours and  
4,800 megawatts, respectively. 

 Customers benefited from electric rates below the national  
average in all customer classes and all service areas for the  
third consecutive year.

 During 2016, the Duke Energy and Piedmont Natural Gas 
Foundations contributed $33.5 million to our communities.

Challenges and Opportunities

 Relentlessly pursue our goal of achieving and sustaining top  
quartile customer satisfaction, placing the customer at the center  
of everything we do.

 Invest $25 billion over the next 10 years to create a more modern, 
smarter energy grid that is also more resilient and better prepared 
for severe weather events.

 Continue to work with stakeholders to identify positive outcomes  
to issues important to our communities.

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 16 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
Julie Mayfield  /  Asheville City Councilwoman     Joan Walker  /  MountainTrue Campaigns Director 
Jason Walls  /  Local Government and Community Relations Manager     Jeremiah LeRoy  /  Buncombe County Sustainability Officer

Working with Stakeholders on Future Generation Plans

In a unique partnership, Duke Energy is working closely with environmentalists, community leaders, 
business owners and government officials in Asheville, N.C., to produce an energy efficiency plan 
specifically designed to delay the need for a new electricity generating unit.

Duke Energy has committed to close a half-century-old, coal-fired power plant in Asheville in 2019 –  
and replace it with a cleaner, natural gas-fired power plant, consisting of two generating units.

The company also might need to build a third generating unit to meet the fast-growing region’s 
future electricity demand. But, in an unusual move, the company is seeking active community 
participation in energy efficiency programs to delay the need for the third generating unit.

“Many folks in Asheville and Buncombe County have said, ‘Give us a chance to demonstrate our 
ability to reduce energy use locally – with the goal of avoiding, or significantly delaying, construction 
of that third unit,’” says Jason Walls, Duke Energy’s government and community relations manager 
in Asheville.

Moving toward that goal, Duke Energy, Buncombe County and the city of Asheville created an 
Energy Innovation Task Force to develop a long-term energy plan for the region.

A key objective: encourage Duke Energy customers to reduce their electricity usage – especially 
during peak demand periods (extremely hot or cold days) – through the company’s many existing 
customer-focused energy efficiency programs. 

Those programs include free energy audits for homes, businesses and industrial plants to identify 
energy-saving opportunities; financial incentives to buy or construct energy-efficient homes and 
other buildings; and partial rebates for installing advanced, low-energy heating and cooling systems.

Duke Energy also can install a device that cycles a customer’s air conditioner or water heater on and 
off during peak demand periods, saving money for the customer (with little or no comfort impact) 
while reducing energy consumption on the electric grid.

The task force in 2017 will draft a detailed report on its initial, two-year energy savings proposal.

Says Walls: “This initiative is a national model for constructive and effective collaboration between  
a utility and the community it serves.”

In addition to energy efficiency programs, Duke Energy has committed to build at least  
15 megawatts of solar energy and 5 megawatts of energy storage in the region. 

CUSTOMERS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 17 /

A Smarter, Stronger Grid:  
Benefiting Customers

Duke Energy is rapidly upgrading and strengthening 
its largest-in-the-nation “electric grid” – the power 
lines, substations, meters and other equipment  
that help deliver electricity from power plants 
to customers.

The company is investing $25 billion in a 10-year 
grid modernization plan that will save energy, give 
customers more control over their electricity use, 
reduce power outages, accommodate additional solar 
energy, and lay the groundwork for energy storage 
and other new technologies.

The plan includes initiatives to “harden” the grid 
against extreme weather, such as hurricanes, by 
elevating substations in flood-prone areas, replacing 
and strengthening utility poles, and relocating 
vulnerable overhead power lines underground. 

Duke Energy is rapidly upgrading and 
strengthening its largest-in-the-nation “electric 
grid” – the power lines, substations, meters 
and other equipment that help deliver 
electricity from power plants to customers.

Additionally, we are working toward proactively 
predicting equipment failures before they happen 
so that equipment can be replaced, and unplanned 
outages avoided.

The plan also includes installation of advanced 
technologies that can better detect a power outage 
and pinpoint its cause, such as a damaged power line 
or equipment failure. Once problems are located on 
the power grid, these systems automatically trigger 
remote switches to immediately isolate the problem 
and reroute electricity around the trouble spot using 
other nearby power lines – greatly reducing the 
number of customers impacted.

Duke Energy’s Electric Rates: 
Below U.S. Average
In effect as of July 1, 2016 (cents per kilowatt-hour)

Residential

13.53
13.53
13.53

8.97
8.97
8.97

10.33
10.33
10.33

10.72
10.72
10.72

11.13
11.13
11.48
11.13
11.48
11.65
11.48
11.65
11.66
11.65
11.66
11.83
11.66
11.83
11.83

8.33
8.33
8.40
8.33
8.40
8.45
8.40
8.45
8.71
8.45
8.71
8.89
8.71
8.89
8.89

9.26
9.26
9.40
9.26
9.40
9.64
9.40
9.64
9.64

11.48
11.48
11.48

Duke Energy Kentucky
Duke Energy Kentucky
Duke Energy Progress-SC
Duke Energy Kentucky
Duke Energy Progress-SC
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Progress-SC
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Florida
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Florida
Duke Energy Indiana 
Duke Energy Florida
Duke Energy Indiana 
Duke Energy Progress-NC
Duke Energy Indiana 
Duke Energy Progress-NC
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC
Duke Energy Progress-NC
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC
Duke Energy Ohio
U.S. AVERAGE 
Duke Energy Ohio
U.S. AVERAGE 
U.S. AVERAGE 
Commercial
Duke Energy Kentucky 
Duke Energy Kentucky 
Duke Energy Progress-SC 
Duke Energy Kentucky 
Duke Energy Progress-SC 
Duke Energy Progress-NC
Duke Energy Progress-SC 
Duke Energy Progress-NC
Duke Energy Indiana  
Duke Energy Progress-NC
Duke Energy Indiana  
Duke Energy Florida 
Duke Energy Indiana  
Duke Energy Florida 
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Florida 
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC
U.S. AVERAGE 
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC
U.S. AVERAGE 
U.S. AVERAGE 
Industrial
Duke Energy Progress-SC 
Duke Energy Progress-SC 
Duke Energy Kentucky 
Duke Energy Progress-SC 
Duke Energy Kentucky 
Duke Energy Progress-NC 
Duke Energy Kentucky 
Duke Energy Progress-NC 
Duke Energy Indiana 
Duke Energy Progress-NC 
Duke Energy Indiana 
Duke Energy Florida 
Duke Energy Indiana 
Duke Energy Florida 
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Florida 
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Ohio
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC 
Duke Energy Carolinas-NC
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC 
U.S. AVERAGE 
Duke Energy Carolinas-SC 
U.S. AVERAGE 
U.S. AVERAGE 

7.01
7.01
7.01

7.54
7.54
7.54

7.91
7.91
8.07
7.91
8.07
8.28
8.07
8.28
8.32
8.28
8.32
8.42
8.32
8.42
8.62
8.42
8.62
8.62

9.60
9.60
9.60

CUSTOMERS

Notes: Residential typical bill based on 1,000 kWh per month usage . Commercial typical 
bill based on 40 kW demand and 14,000 kWh per month usage . Industrial typical bill based 
on 1,000 kW demand and 400,000 kWh per month usage .

Source: Edison Electric Institute Typical Bills and Average Rates Reports, Summer 2016  
(latest available) .

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 18 /

These technologies will also help Duke Energy provide 
more accurate power restoration time estimates to 
customers during outages. 

Electric Grid: Maintaining Security for 
Our Customers

Another key part of the plan: digital “smart” meters 
that help customers save electricity and money.

Duke Energy replaced nearly all of its Ohio customers’ 
aging analog meters with the first generation of smart 
meters earlier this decade.

Similar meter replacement programs, now with 
even more advanced smart meters, are underway 
or planned for Duke Energy customers in Indiana, 
Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida, 
with targeted completion in all states by 2022.

Smart meters give customers easy online access to 
detailed information about their household electricity 
use – including daily and hourly consumption data – so  
they can adjust their usage to save energy and money. 

The meters also enable Duke Energy to:

   Remotely turn power on for new customers, 

eliminating the need for customers to wait for a 
Duke Energy technician to come to their home  
or business;

   Provide new payment options such as prepaid 

energy services and customized due dates.

   Smart meters give customers easy online 
access to detailed information about their 
household electricity use so they can adjust 
their usage to save energy and money.

The “electric grid” – the equipment that delivers 
electricity from power plants to customers – is a 
critical part of America’s backbone infrastructure, vital 
to the nation’s security, economy and public health.

In the U.S., grid security is a shared responsibility of 
public-private partnerships that leverage the strengths 
of all parties. The electric utility industry has operated 
at a heightened state of security since the 2001 U.S. 
terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, working 
closely with multiple entities to safeguard the grid 
from intrusion, sabotage and attack – whether cyber, 
physical or both.

Those entities include the North American Electric 
Reliability Corporation, Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 
U.S. Department of Energy, federal intelligence 
and law enforcement agencies, state and local law 
enforcement departments, and web security firms. 

Duke Energy uses comprehensive, multilayered 
cybersecurity measures to protect its computer 
systems, both software and hardware. The company’s 
highly skilled information technology specialists 
monitor the grid around the clock, searching for 
abnormal cyber activity and quickly responding to  
any incident.

Also, Duke Energy is continuously strengthening the 
grid’s resiliency by installing multilayered, backup 
defense systems – so that if one section of the grid 
is interrupted, another section often can keep power 
flowing to customers.

To ensure it is doing all it can to be prepared,  
the company conducts simulated real-life drills  
and comprehensive employee training for any type  
of emergency.

The “electric grid” – the equipment that delivers electricity 
from power plants to customers – is a critical part of 
America’s backbone infrastructure, vital to the nation’s 
security, economy and public health .

CUSTOMERS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 19 /

2016 Charitable Giving

$7 .8m

$33 .5m

Duke Energy and  
Piedmont Natural Gas 
Foundations

Other company cash 
contributions and  
in-kind 1 gifts  
and services
1 Payment made in the form  
of goods and services  
instead of money.

$10 .0m

$2 .2m

Estimated value 
of volunteers’ time

Cash contributions from 
employees and retirees

$53 .6m

Total Charitable  
Giving2

2 Total does not add up exactly  
due to rounding.

Crowdsourcing Helps Teachers  
Make a Difference

Duke Energy is partnering with DonorsChoose.org to 
help teachers in Ohio, Kentucky, North Carolina and 
South Carolina fund projects that support literacy 
programs and foster a growing interest in science and 
technology fields.

The concept, helping teachers turn classroom projects 
into a reality, has been quite popular. Nationwide, 
teachers at 75 percent of public schools have used 
the concept – raising more than a half-billion dollars 
for education. Within Duke Energy’s service territories, 
thousands of projects have been completed with  
our help.

Here is how it works:

Teachers submit proposals for projects related to 
literacy or science, technology, engineering and math 
(STEM) on the DonorsChoose website. Once on the 
site, the public can read about each project and fund 
the ones they find interesting.

Up to a set limit that varies by state, Duke Energy will  
then match, dollar-for-dollar, all donations made toward  
eligible literacy and STEM projects at public schools in 
the company’s service area. Overall, Duke Energy will 
provide $475,000 in matching donations. 

The end result is that local teachers have the tools 
they need to teach and inspire our next generation of  
leaders. And the combination of public and Duke Energy  
support make sure needed projects are funded.

CUSTOMERS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 20 /

Diverse Supplier Spending (in millions)

Spending with Tier I diverse suppliers1

Spending with Tier II diverse suppliers2

Total

1  Tier I represents direct purchases from diverse suppliers .

2 

3 

 Tier II consists of diverse businesses working with Tier I suppliers .

 Piedmont Natural Gas Tier I data from the first three quarters are included .

2012

$725

$212

$937

2013

$691

$212

$903

2014

$578

$412

$990

2015

$633

$405

$1,038

20163

$681

$494

$1,175

Saving Energy & Money: It’s Easy

Saving money is important to customers. That’s why 
Duke Energy is continually working to help them use 
energy more efficiently.

In 2016, Duke Energy started offering free LED 
bulbs to residential customers, phasing out the free 
CFL bulb program. LEDs last 25 times longer than 
traditional bulbs and are free of mercury and lead –  
a safer choice for customers.

The company offers programs in which trained energy 
experts inspect customers’ homes and share a tailored 
report on ways to save energy. Customers also receive 
a free energy efficiency starter kit to begin saving right 
away. In 2016, more than 54,000 homes received 
the free in-home energy assessment.  

Small to medium-sized business customers can also 
take control of energy spending by participating in a 
similar energy audit. They receive a comprehensive 
report detailing the findings and potential projects  
that would result in paybacks. Since 2013, over 
31,000 energy audits have been performed 
on businesses, with nearly 13,000 customers 
participating in the program.

Another way Duke Energy has helped customers 
reduce energy consumption is through more energy-
efficient lightbulbs. Since 2009, the company  
has provided nearly 72 million energy-efficient 
lightbulbs through various programs, including free 
giveaways, its Online Savings Store, and through 
participating retailers. 

Since 2009, the company has provided nearly 
72 million energy-efficient lightbulbs through 
various programs.

Duke Energy’s programs, products and services, 
which vary by state, recognize that our customers’ 
needs and expectations are changing. That’s why the 
company will continue to develop new and easy ways 
to help them get the most value for their money.

Find out more by visiting duke-energy.com/SaveEnergy.

Meter Recycling Helps People &  
the Environment

New smart meters are being installed throughout the 
Duke Energy service territories.

These new meters can collect the same data as the 
old ones, but unlike the old meters that were read 
once a month, smart meters relay data hourly, giving 
customers more insight into their energy usage than 
ever before.

Great innovation. But what happens to the old meters?

Nearly every day for the last several months, a 
team of employees at the 160,000-square-foot 
Goodwill Opportunity Campus in Charlotte has been 
dismantling old meters and parsing their pieces into 
recycling bins. Eventually, the work could grow to 1 
million meters a year.

CUSTOMERS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 21 /

For the Goodwill team, the work is clean, 
environmentally sound and appreciated by those 
seeking employment. Plus, it advances the Goodwill 
mission of helping people reach their potential in  
the workplace.

The contract between Duke Energy and Goodwill 
began in June 2016 with the hiring of about a half-
dozen employees, who now dismantle about 2,500 
meters a day. As Duke Energy’s upgrade expands, 
the workforce could grow to nine employees moving 
4,500 meters a day, with a payroll that could eventually  
total in the hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Gaining employment and learning new skills are  
just a few of the positives this program provides  
for employees.

The skills learned on the floor go beyond simple meter 
deconstructing. The employees must report on time, 
be productive and learn teamwork – skills that will 
make them attractive to future employers.

Satisfaction Scores Rise; Still Room  
for Improvement

While Duke Energy’s customer satisfaction scores 
improved for both business and residential segments 
in 2016, our rankings show there is still room for 
improvement.

All Duke Energy utilities are implementing plans to 
achieve top-quartile performance among large utilities 
in the J.D. Power Electric Utility Residential Study by 
the end of 2018.

Satisfaction scores increased for all four Duke Energy 
companies in the 2016 calendar year J.D. Power 
Electric Utility Business Study.

   Duke Energy Progress was up an impressive  

61 points to 764, moving from third quartile to  
first quartile.

   Duke Energy Midwest was up 45 points to 753, 

moving into the second quartile.

   Duke Energy Carolinas was up 22 points to 750, 
but dropping from first quartile to third quartile.

   Duke Energy Florida was up 44 points to 734, its 
highest score in more than nine years, but remains 
in the fourth quartile.

The study rates companies on six factors:  
power quality and reliability, billing and payment,  
corporate citizenship, price, communications  
and customer service. 

Large business customers continue to give 
Duke Energy high marks for the service they receive, 
with 91 percent “highly satisfied” with Duke Energy 
as their utility, according to internal data and surveys.

Among residential customers, 79 percent were  
highly satisfied with the service they received from 
Duke Energy in 2016.

In the residential study, J.D. Power reported 
Duke Energy’s satisfaction scores were up for all  
four operating companies in 2016 

   Duke Energy Progress was up 25 points to 680, 

placing it in the second quartile nationally among all 
large utilities.

   Duke Energy Midwest was up 15 points to 679, 

placing it in the second quartile nationally among all 
large utilities.

   Duke Energy Carolinas was up 6 points to 669, 

placing it in the third quartile nationally among all 
large utilities.

   Duke Energy Florida was up 32 points to 654, 

placing it in the fourth quartile among all  
large utilities.

Large business customers continue to give Duke Energy high 
marks for the service they receive, with 91 percent “highly 
satisfied” with Duke Energy as their utility.

CUSTOMERS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 22 /

Customers can get the latest power outage information on their 
personal mobile devices by signing up for phone or email alerts without 
having to first report the outage.

Meeting Customer Expectations for 
Timely Communications

In today’s world, customers expect utilities to offer the 
same amount of communication as other companies 
with whom they do business.

Duke Energy has been adapting to this and has a 
number of communications programs underway.  
Two popular programs have been available to all 
customers since late 2015.

Proactive outage alerts

Customers can get the latest power outage 
information on their personal mobile devices by 
signing up for phone or email alerts without having to 
first report the outage.

Duke Energy notifies customers enrolled in the 
program by text, email or voice message when there 
is a planned or unplanned outage in their area. Key 
status updates are also provided throughout the 
outage to notify customers of estimated restoration 
times, crew status, cause of outage, number  
of customers impacted and when power has  
been restored.

About 1.6 million customers have enrolled in  
the program.

High bill alerts

Customers are notified when weather may cause their 
bill to be higher than the previous month. These alerts 
are sent half-way through the customer’s billing cycle, 
allowing them to take steps to adjust their usage 
before their bill arrives.

Duke Energy notifies customers if their bill is projected 
to be higher than usual by 30 percent or more, based 
on their historical usage and whether temperatures 
are predicted to be much different than the previous 
month. The alerts include energy-saving tips to help 
customers alter their behavior to reduce energy usage. 

Eligible customers are automatically enrolled into the 
program and the unsubscribe rate is very low. About 
1.1 million alerts have been sent to customers to help 
prepare them and to provide money-saving advice. 

Customers are notified when weather may 
cause their bill to be higher than the previous 
month. These alerts are sent half-way through 
the customer’s billing cycle, allowing them  
to take steps to adjust their usage before  
their bill arrives.

CUSTOMERS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 23 /

2 
GROWTH

Grow and Adapt 
the Business 
and Achieve Our 
Financial Objectives

2016 Highlights

 Met our five-year (2013 to 2017) economic development goals 
a year early by helping attract more than 50,000 jobs and 
over $14 billion in capital investments to our service territories 
since 2013.

 Achieved adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.69, near the 
high end of our earnings guidance to Wall Street.

 Increased the quarterly dividend by 4 percent; 2017 will mark the 
91st consecutive year Duke Energy has paid a quarterly dividend.

 As of year-end 2016, owned or had under contract over 5,400 MW 
of wind, solar and biomass. 

 Completed the acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas, tripling the 
number of natural gas customers we serve.

Challenges and Opportunities

 Continue to help attract jobs and capital investments in our 
communities through our economic development programs.

 Deliver value to our customers and grow our business by investing 
$37 billion in growth capital over the next five years.

 Continue to take advantage of new technologies to find better  
ways to meet customer expectations.

 Maintain our position as an industry leader in environmental,  
social and governance disclosure. 

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 24 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thomas Fenimore  /  Technology Development Manager

Green Microgrids Could be a New Growth Initiative

Microgrids aren’t new. But Duke Energy’s efforts to power them with renewable energy have caught 
the attention of the industry.

In simple terms, a microgrid is an energy system consisting of distributed energy sources – like solar 
and batteries – that can operate in parallel with, or independently from, the main power grid. 

It promotes energy security – giving customers a reliable energy supply without the need of the full 
energy grid, or even fossil fuels.

For the past few years, Duke Energy engineer Tom Fenimore has been perfecting a research project 
in Charlotte that provides backup power to a city fire station. Using a solar array and a large battery 
system, the system supports the overall grid most of the time.

But when storms rolled through Charlotte this summer, the system provided power to the fire station 
twice – without any action by the company. The system was so fast that the fire station didn’t notice 
the microgrid was providing power.

Duke Energy’s work is leading to future projects. At Mount Sterling in the Great Smoky Mountains 
National Park in North Carolina, a proposed microgrid will provide 24-hour-a-day service to a 
communications tower.

In this case, the microgrid concept will be more reliable and less costly for the company than 
traditional poles and wires. In addition, about 13 acres of park land currently maintained as a utility 
corridor could be allowed to return to a natural state. 

In Maryland, Duke Energy Renewables and Schneider Electric will partner with Montgomery County 
to construct two microgrids for public safety facilities. The two systems, which will be owned by 
Duke Energy, will include solar and combined heat and power, which saves energy by using waste 
heat from on-site generation to heat and cool buildings. 

In Mount Holly, N.C., the company continues to research future microgrid developments – examining 
how the technology works in a future where distributed energy resources like solar and batteries are 
on nearby electrical circuits.

It’s part of the company’s innovation that may change how energy is delivered to customers in  
the future.

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 25 /

Commander Timothy Craddock  /  Commanding Officer, Naval Support Activity Crane     Mark Mullinix  /  Site Superintendent

Duke Energy Adding More Wind & Solar Resources 

Renewable energy technologies are advancing and prices are decreasing. Duke Energy is  
leveraging those advancements to expand its renewable energy portfolio and deliver cleaner  
energy to its customers.

In total, the company has more than 20 wind projects and 60 solar facilities in operation in over a 
dozen states, totaling about 3,000 megawatts (MW) of generating capacity. 

For wind energy, the company completed two more projects last year – one in Texas and the other 
in Oklahoma. Duke Energy now harvests the wind in seven states. 

Solar continues to expand, too. In California, Duke Energy Renewables acquired three solar power 
plants totaling 55 MW in January 2017. In December 2016, Duke Energy Renewables also 
completed its 20-MW solar project in San Bernardino County, California. In addition, the company 
acquired its first solar projects in Colorado and Georgia and began operating its first solar facility in 
New Mexico during 2016.

The company acquired its first solar projects in Colorado and Georgia  
and began operating its first solar facility in New Mexico during 2016.

In our regulated states, the company continues to make strategic investments to benefit customers. 
In Indiana, construction is complete on the 17-MW solar facility at the Naval Support Activity Crane. 
The facility is helping power the military base and the surrounding community – similar to a project 
at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina, which was completed in 2015.

In North Carolina, Duke Energy invested in 100 MW of solar capacity during the year – including 
plants in five counties that welcomed the jobs created during construction. Overall, Duke Energy 
has about 35 solar facilities in North Carolina, which represents the company’s top solar state. The 
company also purchased and connected around 500 MW of solar capacity for customers in 2016 
that was built by other developers.

In Florida, the company announced its 8.8-MW Suwannee Solar Facility in early 2017 and expects 
to break ground in the spring, with full operation by the end of 2017. Duke Energy already owns and 
operates solar projects in three other Florida counties, with plans for more in the future.

In South Carolina, the company’s solar rebate program paid nearly $12 million to customers last 
year. The rebates help with the upfront cost of installing solar panels, making the technology more 
accessible to customers.

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 26 /

Tomorrow: Investing in a Changing 
Energy Future

The electric and natural gas utility industry is 
undergoing rapid transformation as it pivots to meet 
rising customer service expectations, utilize the latest 
technological developments and produce energy in the 
most environmentally benign way available.

Moving Toward a Cleaner 
Generation Fleet and Increased  
Fuel Diversity (MWh Output)

For Duke Energy, this transformative period presents a 
great opportunity to move forward in four key areas:

2005(1)

   Strengthen the company’s energy delivery system. 
Duke Energy has developed a 10-year, $25-billion 
plan to create a more modern, smarter energy grid. 
In this era of transformation, the demands on the 
grid have never been greater.

While the grid is reliable, recent events, such 
as Hurricane Matthew in North Carolina, have 
highlighted opportunities to strengthen it. (See 
related article on page 18: “A Smarter, Stronger 
Grid: Benefiting Customers.”)

   Generate cleaner energy using natural gas and 
renewables. In the next 10 years, Duke Energy 
will invest $11 billion in highly efficient natural 
gas generation and renewable energy sources. By 
2030, Duke Energy estimates that 36 percent of its 
electricity will be generated using natural gas and  
9 percent will be generated using renewables – 
hydro, wind and solar.

These investments, coupled with the retirement 
of older coal units, will help reduce the company’s 
carbon dioxide emissions by 40 percent from the 
2005 level by 2030. In addition to commercial 
renewables, Duke Energy also will invest in regulated 
renewable assets. 

   Expand the company’s natural gas infrastructure 
to meet customer needs. Natural gas will continue 
to play a major role in the future generation needs of 
Duke Energy and the entire electric utility industry.

With its 2016 acquisition of Piedmont Natural 
Gas, Duke Energy now operates a five-state gas 
distribution business. The company also is a 
part owner of the Atlantic Coast, Sabal Trail and 
Constitution natural gas pipelines. The first two –  

 61%  Coal/Oil
  5%   Natural Gas
 32%  Nuclear
  2%  Hydro, Wind and Solar  

 34%  Coal/Oil
 28%   Natural Gas
 34%  Nuclear
  4%  Hydro, Wind and Solar  

 27%  Coal/Oil
 36%   Natural Gas
 28%  Nuclear
  9%  Hydro, Wind and Solar  

2016(1)

2030(2)

1 .  2005 and 2016 data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generation assets  

as of Dec . 31, 2016 .

2.  2030 estimate will be influenced by customer demand for electricity, weather,  

fuel availability and prices .

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 27 /

both interstate pipelines – will bring much-
needed natural gas to the southeast U.S., spurring 
economic growth that will benefit workers,  
families and communities.

Duke Energy now ranks second nationally for 
natural gas consumption across its electric utilities 
and local natural gas distribution companies.  
(See related article on page 30: “Natural Gas: 
Moving to a Cleaner, Low-Carbon Future.”)

   Increase customer satisfaction and continue 

stakeholder engagement. Over the next 10 years, 
Duke Energy will pursue a goal of achieving and 
sustaining top-quartile customer satisfaction by 
placing the customer at the center of everything the 
company does.

Duke Energy also will continue to work 
collaboratively with its various other stakeholders, 
including community leaders, environmental groups, 
business organizations, regulators, elected officials 
and investors. Such collaboration is critical to the 
company’s success.

   In the next 10 years, Duke Energy will 

invest $11 billion to increase highly efficient 
natural gas generation to 35 percent of the 
company’s electricity generation portfolio, 
and increase renewable energy sources – 
hydro, wind and solar – to 9 percent.

Positioned to Deliver Sustainable 
Financial Results

In 2016, Duke Energy achieved adjusted diluted 
earnings per share of $4.69 compared to $4.54 
for 2015. This increase was driven by continued 
investment in the company’s regulated utilities and 
infrastructure business, and a strong focus on reducing 
operations and maintenance costs across the business. 

One of Duke Energy’s primary goals as a sustainable 
company is delivering attractive long-term returns for 
its shareholders. 2017 will mark the 91st consecutive 
year we have paid a dividend to our shareholders. 
That dividend was increased by 4 percent in 2016. 

During 2016, the company completed its five-year 
portfolio transition with the sale of its Latin America 
business and acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas. 
The company is now a predominately regulated, 
energy infrastructure business, well-positioned for 
growth in 2017 and beyond.

With the portfolio transition complete, the company 
realigned its business into three new segments: 
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, Gas Utilities and 
Infrastructure, and Commercial Renewables.

These three businesses are well-situated to contribute 
adjusted diluted earnings per share that drive the 
company’s 4 to 6 percent overall growth objectives 
from 2017 to 2021.

Duke Energy’s total shareholder return – the 
change in stock price plus dividends – for 2016 
was 13.5 percent, compared to 17.4 percent for 

Financial Highlights

(In millions, except per-share data) 1

Total operating revenues

Income from continuing operations

Reported diluted earnings per share (GAAP)

Adjusted diluted earnings per share (Non-GAAP)

Dividends declared per share

Total assets

Long-term debt including capital leases, less current maturities

1  See Duke Energy’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec . 31, 2016 for detailed notes and further explanations .

2  Prior year data have been recast to reflect the classification of the International Disposal Group as discontinued operations .

2016

$22,743

$2,578

$3.11

$4.69

$3.36

$132,761

$45,576

20152

$22,371

$2,654

$4 .05

$4 .54

$3 .24

$121,156

$36,842

20142

$22,509

$2,538

$2 .66

$4 .55

$3 .15

$120,557

$36,075

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 28 /

the Philadelphia Utility Index (20 U.S. utilities) and 
12.0 percent for the S&P 500. Despite solid returns 
to investors last year, we trailed the Philadelphia 
Utility Index due to the uncertainty associated with 
our portfolio transition. Thanks to a great deal of hard 
work, we put that uncertainty behind us in 2016 and 
are now focused on executing our regulated growth 
strategy for years to come.

Economic Development: Attracting  
Jobs, Investment

Duke Energy’s economic development team in 
2016 helped bring approximately 14,000 new 
jobs and $4.1 billion in private-sector investment 
to the six states served by the company’s electric 
utilities – benefiting workers, families and 
communities. Site Selection magazine named 

Duke Energy to its “Top Utilities in Economic 
Development” list for the 12th consecutive year.

The team recruits new companies from across the 
nation and around the world, convincing them to open 
offices, build manufacturing plants and locate other 
facilities in North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, 
Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky. The team also works 
with existing companies in those states, helping them 
expand at home rather than look elsewhere.

2016 highlights:

   In Ohio and Kentucky, Duke Energy distributed 

$240,000 in grants to support urban 
redevelopment projects.

   In Indiana, Duke Energy awarded grants 

ranging from $2,500 to $7,500 to 12 economic 
development groups to attract jobs and businesses.

Economic Development

Duke Energy works in partnership with state and 
local authorities to attract business investment 
and jobs, and promote economic growth in 
our communities. Duke Energy helped attract 
approximately 14,000 jobs and $4.1 billion of 
investments in 2016.

$4 .1b

Total Capital Investment 

14,000

Total Jobs

Ohio – Kentucky
$561m

560 jobs

Indiana
$593m

1,969 jobs

North Carolina

$2,181m

5,564 jobs

South Carolina

$512m

1,944 jobs

Florida 
$231m
3,972 jobs

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 29 /

   In North Carolina, Duke Energy invested  

$1.4 million in job training initiatives to prepare 
workers for the jobs of tomorrow. 

following Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC) approval. The 515-mile project is scheduled 
to open in 2017.

   In South Carolina, Duke Energy helped create 
approximately 1,900 new jobs and attract  
$512 million in investment.  

   In Florida, Duke Energy helped generate  

3,900 new jobs and $231 million in investment.

Natural Gas: Moving to a Cleaner,  
Low-Carbon Future 

Natural gas will play a key role as Duke Energy 
continues to move toward a cleaner, low-carbon future. 

The 2016 acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas added 
1 million natural gas customers in North Carolina, 
South Carolina and Tennessee to Duke Energy’s existing 
customer base of 525,000 natural gas customers and 
7.5 million electric customers. Piedmont’s Tennessee 
service territory, including the fast-growing Nashville 
region, represents a new geographical area for 
Duke Energy. Piedmont retained its name and now 
operates as a business unit of Duke Energy.

Two major underground interstate natural gas 
pipelines, partly owned by Duke Energy, also  
continue to move forward: 

   Construction of the Sabal Trail Pipeline – traversing 

Alabama, Georgia and Florida – began in 2016 

   FERC staff in 2016 issued a positive draft 

environmental impact statement for the proposed 
Atlantic Coast Pipeline, finding that the project can 
be built in an environmentally responsible way. 
The approximately 600-mile pipeline – from West 
Virginia through Virginia to North Carolina –  
is scheduled to open in 2019, pending final 
regulatory approval.

In addition, four natural gas-fired power plants are 
joining Duke Energy’s electricity generation fleet. The 
company acquired an existing plant in Polk County, 
Fla., in January 2017, and is building new plants 
in Anderson County, S.C. (opening in 2017); Citrus 
County, Fla. (opening in 2018); and Buncombe 
County, N.C. (opening in 2019). The three new plants 
are replacing older coal-fired plants.

The 2016 acquisition of Piedmont Natural 
Gas added 1 million natural gas customers in 
North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee 
to Duke Energy’s existing customer base of 
525,000 natural gas customers and 7.5 million 
electric customers.

Governance Ratings

Each year, Duke Energy benchmarks its corporate governance practices against best-in-class and peer companies . Below are the risk ratings for Duke Energy provided 
by ISS, a leading corporate governance advisory service to the financial community . Duke Energy’s overall ISS Governance QualityScore, as of March 1, 2017, was 1, 
which is the best relative risk rating .

Board structure

Compensation

Shareholder rights

Audit

QuickScore
2015 1
1

1

4

2

QuickScore
2016 1
2

2

4

1

QualityScore
2017 1
3

1

3

1

Rating Scale

  1 = Lowest risk (best rating)
10 = Highest risk

Overall score
1  As of March 1st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Published with permission of ISS . 

1

2

1

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 30 /

Latin America Exit: Focusing on Core 
U.S. Operations

Duke Energy going forward is focused almost 
exclusively on its core U.S. operations.

The company in 2016 sold its international assets  
in Central America and South America in two  
separate transactions. Selling these assets was an 
important transition in our goal to deliver more  
predictable growth. 

The company’s highly stable U.S. regulated utilities 
in seven states – combined with its similarly stable 
renewable energy, electric transmission and natural 
gas businesses across the U.S. – now comprise 
almost all of the company’s operations.

Duke Energy sold its assets in Brazil to China  
Three Gorges Corp. Those assets consisted of  
10 hydroelectric generation plants – eight plants 
totaling 2,057 megawatts (MW) on the border 
between Sao Paulo and Parana states; and two plants 
totaling 33 MW on the Sapucai Mirim River in  
Sao Paulo state.

Duke Energy sold its assets in Peru, Chile, Ecuador, 
Guatemala, El Salvador and Argentina to I Squared 
Capital. Those assets consisted of hydroelectric  
and thermal power plants, totaling 2,300 MW,  
plus transmission infrastructure and natural gas 
processing facilities.

Duke Energy continues to hold a 25 percent equity 
investment in National Methanol Company, a Saudi 
Arabian producer of a gasoline additive.

The company’s highly stable U.S. regulated 
utilities in seven states – combined with its 
similarly stable renewable energy, electric 
transmission and natural gas businesses  
across the U.S. – now comprise almost  
all of the company’s operations.

Participating in Our Democracy 

Duke Energy encourages full participation in our 
democracy in a variety of ways, including education 
and engagement efforts, policy advocacy and  
political activity.

Our Political Activity Policy requires compliance with 
laws and regulations governing political contributions, 
government interaction and lobbying activities. It also 
includes guidelines and a tiered approval process 
that governs all political expenditures. Additionally, 
the company is legally prohibited from making direct 
contributions to candidates for U.S. federal offices  
and certain state offices.

Duke Energy’s Voices in Politics network educates 
and activates employees on political and policy 
issues that could affect our operations, employees or 
stakeholders. We also engage elected officials and 
policymakers to make sure they understand the direct 
impacts of their decisions on Duke Energy and our 
employees, customers and communities.

In 2016, our reportable federal lobbying expenses 
(office space, salaries, consulting and event fees, 
etc.) included $1,265,1491 in dues to support policy 
research and advocacy by trade associations such  
as the Edison Electric Institute and the Nuclear 
Energy Institute. 

DukePAC is a voluntary, nonpartisan political action 
committee that pools eligible employees’ financial 
contributions to support political organizations and 
candidates seeking elected office at the federal and 
state levels. The candidates supported represent 
the communities we serve, are leading members of 
their elected legislative body or serve on relevant 
committees that impact our business, employees, 
customers and communities. Policy positions 
and priorities important to Duke Energy include 
infrastructure, tax and regulatory reform, renewables, 
environmental issues and cybersecurity. In 2016, 
DukePAC contributions totaled approximately 
$1,367,400.

Duke Energy also contributed approximately 
$1,806,9002 to 527 organizations created to support 
the selection, nomination, election, appointment or 
defeat of a candidate. 

1  Represents trade association dues of more than $50,000 during 2016.
2  For contributions in excess of $1,000.

GROWTH

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 31 /

3 
OPERATIONS

Excel in Safety, 
Operational 
Performance and 
Environmental 
Stewardship

2016 Highlights

 Maintained industry leading safety performance with a Total 
Incident Case Rate (TICR) of 0.40. 

 Set a new fleet record of 95.7 percent for nuclear capacity factor; 
the 18th consecutive year of attaining a 90-plus percent  
capacity factor.

 Since 2005, decreased carbon dioxide emissions by 29 percent, 
sulfur dioxide emissions by 94 percent and nitrogen oxides 
emissions by 70 percent.

 Received a new operating license for the Keowee-Toxaway 
Hydroelectric Project from the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission.

 Remained on track to increase the amount of solid waste that is 
recycled from 69 percent in 2013 to 80 percent in 2018.

Challenges and Opportunities

 Maintain top-decile safety performance in TICR and continue  
to focus on the prevention of serious injuries to our employees  
and contractors.

 Continue to demonstrate our commitment to operational excellence, 
which is a foundation to any success we achieve.

 Significantly decrease outage frequency and duration for our 
customers through our grid modernization programs.

 Invest $11 billion in cleaner generation over the next 10 years.

 Continue to move to a lower-carbon future by reducing our carbon 
dioxide emissions by 40 percent from the 2005 level by 2030.

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 32 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Davis Montgomery  /  Government and Community Relations Manager     Adam Fischer  /  Greensboro Department of Transportation Director

Investing in Electric Vehicle Infrastructure 

For the past decade, Duke Energy has been active in building hundreds of public charging stations 
at parking decks, libraries and shopping areas. That infrastructure is needed as electric vehicles (EV) 
become a growing part of the nation’s auto fleet.

That effort will continue in 2017 as more than 200 public EV charging stations are being installed 
under Duke Energy’s $1.5 million “EV Charging Infrastructure Project” in North Carolina.

Stations are planned in almost 50 counties around the state. The project received overwhelming 
interest, with more than 500 charging stations requested.

Recipients have the ability to put the charging stations in a location of their choice – and operate 
them how they see fit.

More than 200 public EV charging stations are being installed under Duke Energy’s 
$1.5 million “EV Charging Infrastructure Project” in North Carolina.

Also part of the project, a $450,000 grant from Duke Energy will help Greensboro’s Department of 
Transportation install an electric charging station for a future influx of all-electric buses. The rapid-
charging station can replenish a bus battery array in seven to 10 minutes.

The Greensboro Transportation Authority is transitioning its fleet of 47 diesel buses to all-electric 
vehicles. Over the next 10 years, the city plans to pair $4.5 million in voter-approved bonds with 
federal funds to replace diesel buses that have met or exceeded their useful life.

Electric buses have no tailpipe emissions and are up to four times as economical to operate as 
conventional buses. Greensboro could have its first two or three electric buses on the streets by 2018.

Both programs were part of a 2015 settlement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and 
various environmental groups.

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 33 /

Aleksandar Vukojevic  /  Technology Development Manager     Rodney James  /  Technology Development Manager

Drones: From Testing to Real-Life Applications

A few years ago, Duke Energy was among a handful of utilities testing what unmanned aerial 
vehicles (better known as drones) could do for its business. 

Through the company’s Emerging Technology Office, Duke Energy looks at budding technologies 
that may be useful in three to 15 years. It investigates a number of possible scenarios to see if these 
new technologies can lower costs and allow us to work better and safer.

Many rounds of testing has led the company to believe drones have a future at Duke Energy. Today, 
drone work is being performed under the company’s Aviation Department, and is proving to be a 
valuable resource to Duke Energy’s renewable energy program – especially solar power.

Duke Energy looks at budding technologies that may be useful in three to 15 years. 

Carrying an infrared camera, drones can spot nonworking solar panels at the company’s facilities, 
eliminating time-consuming manual examination and leading to speedier repairs. 

About 20 Duke Energy employees are now certified to fly drones for the company, which is 
exploring additional uses for the devices. These include power line inspections, outage restoration 
and work inside and outside of large power plants.

Keeping up with technology is a challenge for any company. At Duke Energy, careful testing and 
investigation has the company on top of promising technologies. In the end, it is all about improving 
safety and operations, and lowering costs.

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 34 /

Cynthia Embach  /  Lead Environmental Health and Safety Professional     Brian Powers  /  Crystal River North Station Manager

Protecting Florida’s Precious Water Resources

Making better use of municipal reclaimed water – or treated wastewater – is a useful and popular 
sustainability success story.

A great example is Duke Energy’s Crystal River coal-fired units 4 and 5 on Florida’s Gulf Coast. The 
units receive between 750,000 and 800,000 gallons of treated wastewater a day from the city of 
Crystal River.

Instead of releasing reclaimed water over the city’s wastewater spray field, underground 
infrastructure transports the water to the power plant to support the energy generating process. 

   It reduces by nearly one-third the amount of fresh water drawn from existing wells to support the 

on-site pollution control equipment. 

   It eliminates wastewater discharges over the city’s spray field and reduces the amount of 

nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, entering the Crystal River/Kings Bay springshed.

The project is a public-private partnership among the city of Crystal River, Duke Energy, Florida 
Department of Environmental Protection and Southwest Florida Water Management District.

During the next several years, as the city of Crystal River upgrades  
its sewer systems, Duke Energy expects to increase the amount of  
reclaimed water received to 1.5 million gallons a day.

During the next several years, as the city of Crystal River upgrades its sewer systems, Duke Energy 
expects to increase the amount of reclaimed water received to 1.5 million gallons a day.

In addition to Crystal River, three other Duke Energy plants in Florida – the Hines Energy Complex, 
the Intercession City Plant and the Osprey Energy Center – are using reclaimed water in energy 
generation, further reducing our water footprint. 

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 35 /

Safety Performance Metrics1

Employee and contractor work-related fatalities 
Employee Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 2,3
Employee Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 2,4
Contractor Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) 3
Contractor Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 4

2013

3

0 .62

0 .20

1 .27 

0 .28 

2014

4

0 .58

0 .17

1 .05

0 .28

2015

5 

0 .41

0 .18

1 .18 

0 .21 

2016

0

0.40

0.15
0.875
0.155

Includes both employees and workforce augmentation contractors .

1  Does not include Piedmont Natural Gas .
2 
3  Number of recordable incidents per 100 workers (based on OSHA criteria) . Top decile in 2015 for employee TICR was 0 .56 (based on latest data available from the Edison Electric Institute) .
4  Number of lost workdays per 100 workers .
5  We have a systematic process in place for collecting productive work hours for the majority of the contractor fleet .

It’s All About Safety

At Duke Energy, the safety of our employees, 
contractors and communities is always our top 
priority. We strive for zero injuries but recognize that 
safety is more than a lack of incidents; it’s a culture 
where workers actively care about themselves and the 
well-being of others. 

In 2016, the company launched a five-year plan to 
focus on event-free operations and each business 
unit established new safety goals to build on previous 
successes. Our renewed focus led to important 
improvements in our safety performance. 

Duke Energy had zero work-related fatalities in 2016. 
Although we had one life-altering injury, we decreased 
significant injuries from 16 in 2015 to five in 2016, a 
two-thirds reduction. We also achieved an employee 
Total Incident Case Rate (TICR) of 0.40, one of the 
best in our industry.

We are pleased with our continued improvements, 
but know we still have work to do. In 2017, we plan 
to integrate Piedmont Natural Gas into Duke Energy’s 
safety processes and programs. We will also continue 
to focus on prevention of the most serious injuries to 
our employees and contractors to create an even safer 
place to work. 

Reaffirming Our Commitment Toward 
a Lower-Carbon Future

Providing safe, reliable and affordable energy has 
been at the heart of Duke Energy’s mission for more 
than 100 years. Duke Energy began by harnessing 
rivers to generate electric power. Today, we use 
a balanced energy mix including nuclear, natural 
gas, coal, wind and solar to power the lives of our 
customers. As we continue to modernize our system 
and deliver increasingly clean energy, reducing 
emissions cost-effectively remains an important tenet 
of our investment strategy.

Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a global issue 
and a shared responsibility. For more than a decade, 
Duke Energy has been planning for an energy future 
that includes a constraint on carbon dioxide (CO2) 
emissions to address climate change concerns. We 
established voluntary CO2 reduction goals in 2010 to 
benchmark our progress in reducing emissions. 

Through our modernization efforts and the retirement 
of older coal units, we have reduced fleetwide CO2 
emissions by 29 percent since 2005. 

Duke Energy has also reduced the CO2 intensity of our 
electric generating fleet by 25 percent since 2005, 
meaning we are producing more electricity with fewer 
CO2 emissions.

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 36 /

 
Looking ahead, we are reaffirming our 
commitment to a lower-carbon future  
by updating our goal to reduce CO2 by  
40 percent from the 2005 level by 2030. 
We will continue to advance promising 
solutions that modernize our energy 
system, strengthen our economy, protect 
our environment and leverage innovative 
technologies. (See related article on page 
27: “Tomorrow: Investing in a Changing 
Energy Future.”) 

New Hydroelectric License to 
Benefit Region for Decades

Maintaining and enhancing the quality  
of the Carolinas’ lakes and rivers has been 
a Duke Energy tradition for more than  
a century.

In 2016, the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission issued a new 30-year 
operating license for Duke Energy’s 
Keowee-Toxaway Hydroelectric Project, 
which allows the company to continue 
operating the Jocassee Pumped Storage 
Hydro Station, Keowee Hydro Station and 
associated lakes in North Carolina and 
South Carolina.

The project was originally licensed in 
1966 for 50 years. The new license 
includes conditions of a relicensing 
agreement signed by Duke Energy and 16 
other stakeholder organizations, following 
nearly a decade of collaboration. It allows 
the company to make enhancements to 
public recreational areas on Lake Jocassee 
and Lake Keowee. 

Proposals in the Recreation Management 
Plan include adding diver access, a new 
courtesy dock, a new boat and trailer 
docking area, access for nonmotorized 
boating, and bank fishing signs at Devil’s 
Fork State Park. Duke Energy will also 
add about 25 acres to Double Springs 
Campground, build new restrooms and 
add 12 new campsites.

Coal Plant Retirements

Retired Coal Units1

Location

Units

Total 
capacity 
(megawatts)

Actual  
retirement  
date

Cliffside Steam Station

Buck Steam Station

Edwardsport Generating Station

W.H. Weatherspoon Plant

Gallagher Generating Station

Cape Fear Plant

Beckjord Station

Dan River Steam Station

H.F. Lee Plant

Robinson Plant

Buck Steam Station

Riverbend Steam Station

Sutton Plant

Beckjord Station

Beckjord Station

W.S. Lee Steam Station

W.S. Lee Steam Station

Miami Fort Station

Wabash River Generating Station

N .C .

N .C .

Ind .

N .C .

Ind .

N .C .

Ohio

N .C .

N .C .

S .C .

N .C .

N .C .

N .C .

Ohio

Ohio

S .C .

S .C .

Ohio

Ind .

1, 2, 3, 4

3, 4

6, 7, 8

1, 2, 3
1, 32

5, 6

1

1, 2, 3

1, 2, 3

1

5, 6

4, 5, 6, 7

1, 2, 3

2, 3

4, 5, 6

1, 2

3

6

2, 3, 4, 
5, 6

198

113

160

177

280

316

94

276

382

177

256

454

575

222

543

200

170

163

668

Total

5,424

Planned Coal Unit Retirements

2011

2011

2011

2011

2012

2012

2012

2012

2012

2012

2013

2013

2013

2013

2014

2014

2015
Converted to 
natural gas 

2015

2016

Crystal River Energy Center

Asheville Station

Gallagher

Location

Units

Fla .

N .C .

Ind .

1, 2

1, 2

2, 4

Allen Steam Station

N .C .

1, 2, 3

Total

Total 
capacity 
(megawatts)

Planned 
retirement  
date

2018

2019

Potentially 
retire or cease 
burning coal by 
2022

2024

766

378

280

582 

2,006

TOTAL ACTUAL/PLANNED RETIREMENTS 

7,430

1 

In addition to coal unit retirements, a number of older oil/natural gas generation units have been or  
will be retired .

2  Per a 2009 settlement agreement with the U .S . Environmental Protection Agency .

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 37 /

At Lake Keowee, the company will build new parking 
areas at three recreation sites, create new trails, add 
bank fishing signs and develop new campsites, fishing 
stations and 10 cabins at Mile Creek County Park. 
The company also will build a canoe/kayak launch, 
fishing pier and portage at 15-Acre Lake, a recreation 
site at Keowee-Toxaway State Park.

The company also plans to implement a Habitat 
Enhancement Program in the watershed and conserve 
about 2,900 acres of property adjoining the lakes 
to preserve and protect ecologically and culturally 
significant resources.

Water Resources Fund Provides  
$5 Million for Waterways

Healthy waterways are vital to the communities  
Duke Energy serves. But we can’t do it alone.

Over the past two years, Duke Energy’s Water 
Resources Fund has helped fund 59 projects by 
organizations across the Carolinas and Virginia, 
providing support for the good work done by others.

The fund helps support projects that strengthen water 
quality, reinforce the importance of conservation, and 
expand public access to waterways for citizens and 
visitors across the region.

At the end of 2016, the fund had awarded more than 
$5 million – more than halfway to its $10 million 
multiyear commitment from Duke Energy. Recipients 
are selected by an independent body that includes five 
environmental experts and two Duke Energy employees. 

Among the allocations was a $15,000 grant to Clemson 
University in South Carolina to sponsor a graduate-
level course for K-12 teachers that explores the 
interrelationship of energy production, water and the 
environment. This course is taught by Clemson University 
faculty members, a S.C. Department of Natural 
Resources wildlife biologist and Duke Energy scientists.

Also, the Conservation Fund received $100,000 to 
protect critical acreage that contains the headwaters 
of the French Broad River in the Headwaters State 
Forest in North Carolina.

Putting Rights of Way to Work  
for Wildlife

Duke Energy manages the land over which more than 
30,000 miles of transmission lines traverse – that’s 
more than enough to circle the globe.

With that much property to manage, the company has 
focused on how to put it to work for imperiled wildlife. 
Utility rights of way can serve as valuable corridors for 
threatened wildlife.

To bolster these efforts, the Duke Energy Foundation 
will provide $500,000 over the next five years to the 
National Wild Turkey Federation’s (NWTF) Energy 
for Wildlife program to conserve or enhance more 
than 6,000 acres of critical habitat across Florida, 
the Carolinas and Indiana. The project is designed 
to benefit imperiled pollinators and birds, as well as 
numerous other wildlife species. 

Duke Energy manages the land over which 
more than 30,000 miles of transmission lines 
traverse – that’s more than enough to circle  
the globe.

Conservation efforts will focus on establishing or 
enhancing habitat on public lands, such as state or  
national forests, and nearby areas where Duke Energy’s  
transmission rights of way cross large areas of 
forested habitat. The enhanced habitat conditions 
will provide cover and a sustainable food source, 
while serving as a protective travel corridor for wildlife 
species that need it most. 

Beyond the new collaboration with NWTF,  
Duke Energy implemented many programs in 2016 
with natural resource protection in mind. For instance, 
in Florida the company piloted a power line design 
that minimizes risks to birds. The redesigned elements 
will help prevent birds from getting in between lines 
and from perching and building nests on electrical 
lines and poles.

In North Carolina, the company is supporting the 
Carolina Raptor Center’s bald eagle conservation 
efforts, as well as the development of a new 
raptor trail and high-tech amphitheater to enhance 
educational programming for children. 

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 38 /

Delivering Reliability

Customers expect highly reliable electric service, and Duke Energy delivers . Each 
year we set power delivery reliability targets for the number and duration of power 
outages, and generation fleet performance targets .

Power Delivery

Mid-size storm activity in the Carolinas during July and August (a 1-in-100 year 
event) caused us to miss our targets for outage frequency and duration . Despite the 
results in 2016, our long-term trend in outage frequency continues to improve while 
our long-term trend in outage duration remains stable .

Outage Statistics

Average number of outages 1, 2 
(occurrences)
Average time without power 1, 2 
(minutes)

2013

1 .14

2014

1 .13

2015

1 .16

2016

1.17

120

122

131

144

2016

Target

1 .14

126

1  Outages with a duration greater than 5 minutes; statistics are reported per customer .
2  Lower numbers indicate better performance .

Generation
Our diverse generation fleet including fossil, nuclear, hydro, wind and solar resources 
reliably met challenging demands, despite a summertime record for usage in the 
Carolinas . 

Nuclear fleet capacity factor, which is a measure of generation reliability, exceeded 
90 percent for the 18th consecutive year, and improved from 94 .2 percent in 2015 
to 95 .7 percent in 2016 . The fossil fleet’s commercial availability declined from 
87 .4 percent in 2015 to 84 .7 percent in 2016 . The commercial renewables fleet’s 
commercial availability increased from 93 .3 percent in 2015 to 94 .2 percent in 2016 
because of reduced unscheduled maintenance activities .

Generation Reliability

Nuclear capacity factor

2013

92 .8%

2014

2015

2016

93 .2%

94 .2%

95.7%

2016

Target

94 .1%

Fossil commercial  
availability 3
Renewables commercial 
availability 3
3  Based on units operated by Duke Energy and ownership share . 

94 .2%

96 .0%

85 .9%

85 .7%

87 .4%

84.7%

86 .9%

93 .3%

94.2%

96 .0%

Crafting Permanent Coal  
Ash Solutions

Duke Energy is actively working to close 
its 60 coal ash basins to protect the 
environment, the public and the costs 
customers pay.

In 2016, the company announced it would 
excavate 34 basins and safely cap another 
18 basins across its fleet. The company is  
still finalizing details on the remaining sites.

Flexible ash basin closure options not only 
ensure Duke Energy can select the right 
closure options for each site, but also help 
keep costs lower for customers compared 
to a one-size-fits-all approach.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) recognizes that excavation or 
capping basins, combined with long-term 
monitoring, can be equally protective of the 
environment. The EPA also acknowledges 
that the vast majority of ash in the nation 
will be safely stored by capping basins  
in place. Consistent with the industry,  
Duke Energy plans to safely dispose of 
almost 70 percent of its ash by capping  
in place.

Duke Energy is actively working to 
close its 60 coal ash basins to protect 
the environment, the public and the 
costs customers pay.

As part of the company’s ongoing 
commitment to its customers, it is closing 
older, less-efficient coal plants and ash 
basins, responsibly managing waste, and 
exploring new opportunities to expand the 
reuse of coal ash for beneficial purposes. 

Duke Energy currently recycles nearly 
two-thirds of all ash produced and 
has announced plans to install three 
reprocessing units to transform even  
more of this material into useful products.

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 39 /

In 2016, Duke Energy’s 11 nuclear generating  stations – at six sites  
in the Carolinas – set a new overall capacity factor of 95 .72 percent .

Since the 2014 Dan River coal ash release in North 
Carolina, Duke Energy has been mindful of any impact 
coal ash has on the environment and the community.

A two-year study conducted by N.C. State University 
along a 57-mile stretch of the Dan River showed no 
impacts of the coal ash release on agricultural crops 
in the area. The study joins a growing list of scientific 
data that demonstrate the river is doing well and 
wildlife is thriving. 

In addition, scientific data continue to show ash 
basins are not impacting neighbors’ wells or drinking 
water supplies near Duke Energy plant sites. This 
includes a Duke University study that confirmed 
hexavalent chromium is naturally occurring in drinking 
water wells across the region and is not originating 
from ash basins.

Nuclear Fleet Establishing New Records

Duke Energy has operated nuclear power plants 
since the early 1970s. And the company’s fleet keeps 
setting new records.

In 2016, Duke Energy’s 11 generating stations –  
at six sites in the Carolinas – set a new overall 
capacity factor of 95.72 percent. That marks the 
18th consecutive year of attaining a 90-plus percent 
capacity factor. The plants produced 90 billion 
kilowatt-hours (kWh) of carbon-free electricity.

Here are some of the highlights:

   The two-unit Brunswick Nuclear Plant generated 
a record of more than 15 billion kWh over the 
12-month period. Brunswick also completed its 
shortest refueling outage ever.

   Catawba Nuclear Station Unit 1 set a 12-month 
record, cranking out more than 10 billion kWh of 
electricity, and Catawba Unit 2 had its longest 
continuous operating run.

   McGuire Nuclear Station’s two units established a 
station-best 12-month generation record of nearly 
20 billion kWh.

   Oconee Nuclear Station Unit 2 provided a record 
of more than 7 billion kWh of electricity over the 
last 12 months, and units 1 and 3 completed their 
shortest refueling outages ever. Over the years,  
the efficiencies gained in planning and implementing  
shorter refueling outages have increased the fleet’s 
availability to produce electricity.

   Harris and Robinson nuclear plants each achieved 

record six-month generation during 2016 – 
producing more power over that time period  
than ever before.

As for constructing nuclear plants, the company 
received licenses from the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission for new reactors in South Carolina and 
Florida. No decisions have been made on proceeding 
with these projects.

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 40 /

Environmental Performance Metrics

2016 Electricity Generated and Generation Capacity 1

Coal

Natural gas

Oil

Natural gas/oil

Total fossil

Nuclear

Wind

Conventional hydro

Solar

Total carbon-free
Pumped-storage hydro 2
Total

Electricity Generated 
(Net megawatt hours)

Generation Capacity 
(Megawatts)

MWh 
(thousands)

 74,055 

 61,695 

 97 

 135,848 

 74,160 

 6,417 

 2,431 

 1,205 

 84,213 

 (776)

 219,285 

Percent

33 .8%

28 .1%

0 .0%

62 .0%

33 .8%

2 .9%

1 .1%

0 .5%

38 .4%

-0 .4%

100 .0%

MW

 17,948 

 4,584 

 402 

 13,922 

 36,856 

 8,850 

2,311

 1,415 

660 

 13,236 

 2,140 

 52,232 

Percent

34 .4%

8 .8%

0 .8%

26 .7%

70 .6%

16 .9%

4 .4%

2 .7%

1 .3%

25 .3%

4 .1%

100 .0%

1  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating plants as of Dec . 31, 2016 . Data exclude the Duke Energy 

International assets sold in 2016 . Totals may not add up exactly because of rounding . 

2  Pumped-storage hydro helps meet peak demand and, like other storage technologies, consumes more energy than it produces . 

2016 Electricity Generated*

2016 Generation Capacity*

2016 electricity generated and 
generation capacity 
Duke Energy has a diverse, increasingly clean 
generation portfolio . Approximately 38 percent 
of the electricity we generated in 2016 was 
from carbon-free sources, including nuclear, 
wind, hydro and solar . Nuclear generation 
surpassed coal by a small margin, and over  
28 percent was from natural gas, which  
emits about half as much carbon dioxide  
as coal when used for electric generation .  
Duke Energy Renewables sells the electricity 
and/or Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) 
it generates to its customers .

*  Excludes pumped-storage hydro .

Fuels Consumed For Electric Generation3

Coal (million tons)

Oil (million gallons)

Natural gas (billion cubic feet)

2008

63 .1

230 .6

163 .4

2014

44 .0

53 .6

525 .3

2015

32 .6

44 .1

501 .1

2016

31.7

29.5

545.2

3  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets as of the end of each calendar year . Data exclude the  

Duke Energy International assets sold in 2016 .

Fuels consumed for  
electric generation
Since 2008, the use of coal and oil as 
generation fuels has significantly decreased . 
These fuels have been replaced primarily by 
natural gas, mostly because it has become 
a relatively less expensive fuel and we have 
added natural gas generation capacity .

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 41 /

 33.8% Nuclear 33.8% Coal 28.1% Natural gas  3.4% Wind/solar  1.1% Conventional   hydro  0.0% Oil 34.4% Coal 26.7% Natural gas/oil 16.9% Nuclear  8.8% Natural gas  2.7% Conventional   hydro  5.7% Wind/solar  0.8% Oil 
Environmental Performance Metrics continued

Water withdrawn and consumed for 
electric generation
Water withdrawn is the total volume removed 
from a water source, such as a lake or a river . 
Because of the once-through cooling systems 
on many of our coal-fired and nuclear plants, 
almost 99 percent of this water is returned to 
the source and available for other uses . Water 
consumed is the amount of water removed for 
use and not returned to the source .

Emissions from electric generation
Many factors influence emissions levels and 
intensities, including generation diversity and 
efficiency, demand for electricity, weather, 
fuel availability and prices, and emissions 
controls deployed . Since 2005, our carbon 
dioxide (CO2) emissions decreased by  
29 percent, sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions 
decreased by 94 percent and nitrogen oxides 
(NOX) emissions decreased by 70 percent . 
These decreases are primarily due to addition 
of pollution control equipment, decreased coal 
generation, increased natural gas generation, 
and replacement of higher-emitting plants . 

Methane emissions from  
pipeline operations
Methane (CH4) is the primary component of 
natural gas, and is a greenhouse gas . We 
work to minimize methane emissions, but 
some is released during pipeline operations 
and maintenance . Duke Energy is a founding 
partner of the U .S . EPA’s Natural Gas Star 
Methane Challenge program, which is aimed 
at cost-effective technologies and practices 
that improve operational efficiency and 
reduce methane emissions .

Water Withdrawn and Consumed for Electric 
Generation4 (billion gallons)

Withdrawn

Consumed

Consumption Intensity 
(gallons per MWh generated)

4  Data exclude the Duke Energy International assets sold in 2016 .

2011

5,900

105

456

2014

5,789

92

376

2015

5,723

79

361

2016

5,341

74

337

Emissions From Electric Generation5

2005

2014

2015

108,463

1 .29

152,147

114,854

CO2 emissions (thousand tons) 
CO2 emissions intensity (pounds per net kWh)
SO2 emissions (tons) 
SO2 emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)
NOX emissions (tons) 
NOX emissions intensity (pounds per net MWh)
CH4 emissions (CO2 equivalent) (thousand tons)
N2O emissions (CO2 equivalent) (thousand tons)
5  All data based on Duke Energy’s ownership share of generating assets as of Dec . 31, 2016 . Data exclude the  

1,107,067

160,000

      420 

243,180

     731 

84,000

  482 

  281 

1 .05

0 .8

9 .4

1 .5

2 .1

      243 

      415 

106,000

78,000

0 .99

0 .7

1 .0

Duke Energy International assets sold in 2016 . Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding .

Sulfur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (tons)6  
and Electricity Generation (thousand net megawatt-hours)

 Sulfur dioxide emissions 

 Nitrogen oxides emissions    

 Electricity generation

1,107,067

243,180

160,000

84,000

106,000

78,000

61,000

72,000

2005

2014

2015

2016

6   SO2 and NOX reported from Duke Energy’s electric generation based on ownership share of generating assets .

2016

106,763

0.97

61,000

0.6

72,000

0.7

         236 

         401 

Electricity 
generation

250,000

200,000

150,000

100,000

50,000

0

Methane Emissions from Pipeline Operations (thousand tons)

CH4 emissions (CO2 equivalent)

2014

201

2015

184

2016

184

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 42 /

Environmental Performance Metrics continued

Sulfur Hexafluoride Emissions from Electric 
Transmission and Distribution Operations (thousand tons)

SF6 emissions (CO2 equivalent)

2014

456

2015

291

2016

570

Toxic Release Inventory (thousand pounds)7

Releases to air

Releases to water

Releases to land

Off-site transfers

Total

2007

97,969

257

22,052

155

120,434

2013

2014

2015

22,400

18,297

10,396

131

12,449

2,924

37,904

152

12,948

3,579

34,976

145

9,666

1,363

21,570

7  Data pertain to electric generation facilities Duke Energy owns or operates and where Duke Energy is the responsible reporting 

party . Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding .

Waste

2013

2014

2015

2016

Solid waste 
 Total generated (tons)8 
 Percent recycled
Hazardous waste generated (tons) 9
Low-level radioactive waste  
(Class A, B and C) generated (cubic feet) 10
8  Weights are estimated based on volumes where necessary . Excludes Duke Energy Renewables, Piedmont Natural Gas and large 

88,000
72%

84,083
69%

85,490
71%

102,257
76%

200,667

104,636

88,994

570

317

48

51

–

nonreplicable projects such as plant demolitions .

9  Excludes Duke Energy Renewables and Piedmont Natural Gas .
10  Total of Class A, B and C waste disposal as reported to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission . Crystal River Unit 3 is not included 
in these statistics, because it is not part of the operating fleet, and is retired . Data for 2016 will be available later in 2017 .

Reportable Oil Spills11

Spills

Gallons

11  Excludes Piedmont Natural Gas .

2012

48

10,800

2013

65

4,823

2014

26

12,006

2015

23

3,425

2016

23

3,970

Environmental Regulatory Citations12

Citations

2012

16

2013

16

2014

33

2015

9

2016

9

Fines/penalties (dollars)

$ 128,562 $1,006,935

$236,058

$114,585,735

$7,114,090

12  Includes international and U .S . federal, state and local citations and fines/penalties . Excludes Piedmont Natural Gas .

Sulfur hexafluoride emissions  
from electric transmission and 
distribution operations
Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) is an insulating gas 
used in high voltage electric transmission 
and distribution switchgear equipment, and 
is a greenhouse gas . We work to minimize 
SF6 emissions, but some is released during 
transmission and distribution operations  
and maintenance .

Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)
Duke Energy’s TRI releases for 2015 were 
down 82 percent from 2007, primarily due to 
the significant investments we’ve made in 
environmental controls for our power plants, 
and decreased coal generation . (Data for 2016 
will be available in August 2017 .)

Waste
We are on track to meet our goal of increasing 
the percentage of solid waste that is recycled 
from 69 percent in 2013 to 80 percent in 2018 . 
(This goal excludes Duke Energy Renewables 
and Piedmont Natural Gas .)

Reportable oil spills
Oil spills include releases of lubricating 
oil from generating stations, leaks from 
transformers, or damage caused by weather 
or by third parties (typically because of  
auto accidents) .

Environmental regulatory citations
Fines/penalties were relatively large in 2013 
because of the November 2013 settlement 
agreement addressing golden eagle fatalities 
at wind power facilities; in 2015 because 
of the May 2015 coal ash enforcement 
agreement; and in 2016 because of a  
2014 oil spill at the Beckjord Station in Ohio, 
and a 2014 coal ash spill . See the “Migratory 
Bird Settlement Agreement” article in the 
2013 Sustainability Report, and “Legal  
Cases Resolved” article in the 2015 
Sustainability Report .

OPERATIONS

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 43 /

 
4 
EMPLOYEES

Develop and 
Engage Employees 
and Strengthen 
Leadership

2016 Highlights

 Black Enterprise Magazine named Duke Energy to its “50 Best 
Companies for Diversity.”

 To cultivate an inclusive environment, piloted a program on 
unconscious bias with 75 leaders across the company.

 Enhanced the Duke Energy In Action program to better enable 
employees and retirees to make a difference in the communities 
where they live and work.

 Honored a record 48 employees with the James B. Duke Award, 
adding two new categories – Career Achievement and Heroic Acts.

Challenges and Opportunities

 Foster a high-performance and inclusive culture built on strong 
leadership and highly engaged and diverse employees. 

 Ensure knowledge transfer as our baby boomers retire.

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 44 /

 
 
 
 
 
 
LaTonya King  /  Director, Diversity and Inclusion      Melissa Anderson  /  Executive Vice President, Administration and Chief Human Resources Officer     

Unity and Inclusion, Within and Beyond Our Walls

Duke Energy’s commitment to diversity and inclusion extends beyond our own walls and into the 
community. This commitment was more important than ever in 2016, as several of the communities 
we serve experienced tragic acts of violence and, in some cases, civil unrest.

In the wake of the civil unrest in Charlotte, N.C., in September, Duke Energy hosted a series of 
facilitated conversations, called “Pathways to Inclusion,” that provided a venue for employees to 
discuss these events, their impact, and how we can move forward and create unity. “The sessions 
gave employees a safe space for dialog around complex, emotional issues,” said LaTonya King,  
Duke Energy’s director of diversity and inclusion. “They shared feelings of sadness, frustration  
and anger coming into the sessions, but they left feeling educated, enlightened, and hopeful.” 

The Duke Energy Foundation made a $100,000 donation to the Unite Charlotte Fund, a new 
community fund created in the aftermath of the unrest to support programs focused on healing, 
rebuilding trust and creating opportunities. 

The company brought in the NeuroLeadership Institute (NLI) to pilot a program  
on unconscious bias with 75 leaders across the company. Those who participated 
in the pilot reported they felt better equipped to not only recognize bias, but also 
overcome it in their day-to-day activities. 

Similarly, following the deadly shooting at an Orlando nightclub in June, the company made a 
$100,000 donation to the OneOrlando Fund to help respond to the community’s immediate and 
future needs. 

In 2016, we also continued our sharp focus on cultivating an inclusive environment in the 
workplace. For instance, the company brought in the NeuroLeadership Institute (NLI) to pilot a 
program on unconscious bias with 75 leaders across the company. Those who participated in the 
pilot reported they felt better equipped to not only recognize bias, but also overcome it in their day-
to-day activities. 

“I’m excited about unconscious bias training. We expect to see improvements in the decision-making 
capabilities of our leaders as a result of this work,” says Melissa Anderson, executive vice president 
of administrative services and chief human resources officer. The unconscious bias training program 
will continue in 2017, with a focus on the top 400 leaders across the company.

EMPLOYEES

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 45 /

Detective Julie Marzheuser  /  Lead Negotiator, Edgewood PD and Kenton County Regional SWAT     Steve Hinkel  /  Director Advanced Technologies, Applications

Duke Engineer Builds Robots that Protect & Serve 

When robots are mentioned, it’s easy to conjure up memories of old science fiction movies. But do 
they have a place in today’s energy industry?

Kentucky employee Steve Hinkel is working on it. His innovative efforts teaching and designing robots  
have already caught the attention of local law enforcement and may have a future at Duke Energy. 

One of his recent creations is a rover robot for the Newport, Ky., Police Department, across the river 
from Cincinnati. Affectionately called SWAT-Bot by officers, the robot can help police access places 
that might be too risky or too cramped to enter, and can see things they may not ordinarily be able 
to detect.

“A technician might also direct a robot to make a repair in an energized electric 
substation; that way the person can stay in a completely safe zone.” 

Hinkel began dabbling in robotics several years ago when his young son showed an interest in 
robots. Over time, Hinkel became a quasi-expert in the design of robots – now teaching a class on 
robotics at Northern Kentucky University.

He continues to design new robots. And in addition to the Newport police squad, two other local 
police departments are adopting Hinkel’s robot designs.

As for Duke Energy, robots could be used to handle tasks that could be more dangerous than they 
first appear – like working in traffic.

“For example, instead of a crew member using a flag to direct traffic in highly congested areas, as 
when electrical workers are making repairs to a power line, a robot could do it,” said Hinkel. “A 
technician might also direct a robot to make a repair in an energized electric substation; that way 
the person can stay in a completely safe zone.”

EMPLOYEES

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 46 /

Helping Employees Make an Impact in 
Their Communities 

When Duke Energy’s Jamie Lynton and his wife 
planted some milkweed in their yard that attracted 
a few butterflies, it gave him an idea. Why not do 
this on a larger scale to offer a protected habitat for 
imperiled monarch butterflies as they migrate south? 

He first organized a Duke Energy In Action 
Teams4Good volunteer event and rounded up 
co-workers to build the first monarch butterfly 
“waystation” at Lapping Park in Clarksville, Indiana. 
Lynton even helped Clarksville secure a $2,500 grant 
from the Duke Energy Foundation to pay for the plants 
and supplies.

A few months later, Clarksville Elementary School 
students returned to the waystation to release 
monarch butterflies and learn about their migration 
patterns and the dangers they face.

Teams4Good is part of the enhanced Duke Energy  
In Action program launched earlier in the year. 
Designed to empower employees and retirees  
to make a difference in the communities where 
they live and work, the program makes it easy 
for employees to volunteer their time and double 
their charitable contributions to the causes they’re 
passionate about.

Other opportunities include Dollars4Good, which 
matches eligible donations made by employees; 
Hours4Good, through which employees can earn 
company grants when they volunteer their time; and 
Relief4Employees, which allows employees to support 
co-workers in need.

The Duke Energy In Action program has been a hit 
in other areas of the Duke Energy territory. In Ohio, 
employees organized an Accounting for Kids Day to 
introduce financial literacy concepts to Cincinnati 
Public Schools students in a fun and interactive way. 
In North Carolina, employees at the Kings Mountain 
Generation Support Facility organized several 
volunteer events at the local Gateway Trail to  
create and maintain a butterfly garden. 

Sharing a Ride; Lowering Our Impact

In 2015, Duke Energy spent almost $16 million  
on rental cars and personal mileage for its 
28,000 employees.

It led the company to ask, “Is there a better way?”

What resulted was RideShare – an innovative program 
that matches employees traveling to the same 
location. If two employees are both renting cars in 
North Carolina to travel from Raleigh to Asheville – 
RideShare allows them to connect and take one car 
instead. It’s a great way to meet fellow employees, 
lower costs and eliminate the need for additional cars 
on the highway.

Early results have been promising. Employees 
continue to sign up and test the program. In fact, in 
2016, more than 45,000 highway miles were avoided 
by employees riding together. That number could be 
higher since many employees were informally sharing 
rides before the program was introduced.

As the effort continues to expand, Duke Energy will 
not only be able to save money on mileage and car 
rentals, but also lower its environmental impact with 
fewer vehicles and less emissions.

As RideShare continues to expand, Duke Energy will not 
only be able to save money on mileage and car rentals, but 
also lower its environmental impact with fewer vehicles 
and less emissions .

EMPLOYEES

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 47 /

Each year, Duke Energy’s James B . Duke Award honors employees who 
have made an impact on their communities, neighbors and the industry .

Recognizing Our Heroes

Each year, Duke Energy’s James B. Duke Award 
honors employees who have made an impact on their 
communities, neighbors and the industry. And there’s 
no bigger impact than saving a life.

Kentucky employees Denny Caple and Chris Thomas 
were leaving their truck when they were startled by 
the screech of a quick acceleration in the parking lot. 
When the Gas Operations employees looked over, 
they found the driver of the nearby truck slumped 
over, unresponsive. 

Caple and Thomas knew exactly what to do. 

They rushed to him and pulled the unresponsive 
construction worker from the vehicle. After a moment 
of consciousness, the victim passed out again.  
Co-workers Cliff Jeffery, Mike Highhouse and  
Bill Stanforth, also witnessed the incident and  
rushed to help as the construction worker went  
into cardiac arrest. 

As a team, the men performed CPR until paramedics 
arrived to take over the compressions and administer 
four shocks with an automated external defibrillator. 
At the hospital, the doctor said the construction 
worker’s artery was fully clogged, and, if not for the 
team’s quick action, he would have died. 

Throughout its many states, Duke Energy employees 
have accomplished a number of heroic acts – 
consistently going above and beyond to help others.

Throughout its many states, Duke Energy 
employees have accomplished a number  
of heroic acts – consistently going above  
and beyond to help others. 

EMPLOYEES

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 48 /

Workforce Performance Metrics

Workforce Statistics

Full- and part-time employees 

Collective bargaining unit members as percent of workforce

Workforce Demographics

Ethnic diversity as percent of workforce 

 White

 Black/African-American

 Hispanic/Latino

 Asian

 American Indian/Alaska Native

 Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander

 Not specified 

Females/minorities as percent of workforce/management 

 Females as percent of workforce

 Females as percent of management

 Minorities as percent of workforce

 Minorities as percent of management

Employee Turnover Summary

Turnover as percent of workforce
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 5 years 1
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in 10 years 1
1  “Eligible to retire” is defined as 55 years of age or older, with at least five years of service .

12/31/14

12/31/15

12/31/16

28,344

19 .6%

28,905

18 .3%

28,790

19.1

12/31/14

12/31/15

12/31/16

85 .2%

10 .7%

2 .1%

1 .3%

0 .6%

0 .1%

0 .0%

22 .2%

18 .0%

14 .8%

10 .2%

2014

7 .1%

48 .8%

62 .0%

84 .3%

11 .1%

2 .5%

1 .4%

0 .6%

0 .1%

0 .1%

22 .6%

17 .2%

15 .6%

10 .4%

2015

7 .5%

46 .3%

59 .3%

83.3%

11.8%

2.7%

1.5%

0.6%

0.1%

0.0%

22.8%

17.6%

16.7%

11.1%

2016

9.6%

45.1%

57.3%

A Transforming Workforce

During the past five years, Duke Energy’s workforce has transformed 
from one with approximately 60 percent Baby Boomers and 
Traditionalists, to one with 60 percent Generation X and Millennials . As 
this transformation continues, we are working to assure that workers 
of all generations are engaged and enabled, with the right skills and 
qualifications to operate and grow Duke Energy’s evolving businesses .

Four Generations of  
Duke Energy Employees

EMPLOYEES

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 49 /

 0.2% Traditionalists (born before 1946) 39.8% Baby Boomers (born 1946-1964) 38.5% Generation X (born 1965-1981) 21.5% Millennials (born after 1981) 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
Cautionary statements regarding forward-looking information
This document includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the 
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 . Forward-
looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and can often be 
identified by terms and phrases that include “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” 
“expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will,” “potential,” 
“forecast,” “target,” “guidance,” “outlook” or other similar terminology . Various factors may 
cause actual results to be materially different than the suggested outcomes within forward-
looking statements; accordingly, there is no assurance that such results will be realized . 
These factors include, but are not limited to: state, federal and foreign legislative and 
regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental 
requirements or climate change, as well as rulings that affect cost and investment recovery 
or have an impact on rate structures or market prices; the extent and timing of costs and 
liabilities to comply with federal and state laws, regulations and legal requirements related to 
coal ash remediation, including amounts for required closure of certain ash impoundments, 
are uncertain and difficult to estimate; the ability to recover eligible costs, including amounts 
associated with coal ash impoundment retirement obligations and costs related to significant 
weather events, and to earn an adequate return on investment through the regulatory 
process; the costs of decommissioning Crystal River Unit 3 and other nuclear facilities could 
prove to be more extensive than amounts estimated and all costs may not be fully recoverable 
through the regulatory process; credit ratings of the company or its subsidiaries may be 
different from what is expected; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, 
settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth or 
decline in service territories or customer bases resulting from variations in customer usage 
patterns, including energy efficiency efforts and use of alternative energy sources, including 
self-generation and distributed generation technologies; federal and state regulations, laws 
and other efforts designed to promote and expand the use of energy efficiency measures 
and distributed generation technologies, such as rooftop solar and battery storage, in our 
service territories could result in customers leaving the electric distribution system, excess 
generation resources as well as stranded costs; advancements in technology; additional 
competition in electric and gas markets and continued industry consolidation; the influence 
of weather and other natural phenomena on operations, including the economic, operational 
and other effects of severe storms, hurricanes, droughts, earthquakes and tornadoes, 
including extreme weather associated with climate change; the ability to successfully 
operate electric generating facilities and deliver electricity to customers including direct or 
indirect effects to the company resulting from an incident that affects the U .S . electric grid 
or generating resources; the ability to complete necessary or desirable pipeline expansion 
or infrastructure projects in our natural gas business; operational interruptions to our gas 
distribution and transmission activities; the availability of adequate interstate pipeline 
transportation capacity and natural gas supply; the impact on facilities and business from 

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (“EPS”)
Management evaluates financial performance in part based on adjusted diluted EPS, a 
non-GAAP financial measure . Adjusted diluted EPS represents diluted EPS from continuing 
operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common stockholders, adjusted for 
the per-share impact of special items . As discussed below, special items include certain 
charges and credits which management believes are not indicative of Duke Energy’s ongoing 
performance . Management believes the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful 
information to investors, as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of  
Duke Energy’s performance across periods .
Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure for planning and forecasting, and 
for reporting financial results to the Duke Energy Board of Directors (Board of Directors), 
employees, stockholders, analysts and investors . Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a  
basis for employee incentive bonuses . The most directly comparable GAAP measures for 
adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS attributable to Duke Energy Corporation  
common stockholders .
Special items included in the periods presented include the following items which 
management believes do not reflect ongoing costs:
•    Costs to Achieve Mergers represents charges that result from potential or completed 

strategic acquisitions . 

•    Cost Savings Initiatives represents severance charges related to company-wide initiatives 
to standardize processes and systems, leverage technology and workforce optimization . 

•    Commercial Renewables Impairment and Asset Impairment represent other-than-

temporary impairments .

•    Edwardsport Settlement, Ash Basin Settlement and Penalties, and Coal Ash Plea 

Agreements Reserve represent charges related to Plea Agreements and settlement 
agreements with regulators and other governmental entities .

Adjusted diluted EPS also includes the operating results of the nonregulated Midwest 
generation business and Duke Energy Retail Sales (collectively, the Midwest Generation 
Disposal Group) and the International Disposal Group, which have been classified as 

a terrorist attack, cybersecurity threats, data security breaches, and other catastrophic 
events such as fires, explosions, pandemic health events or other similar occurrences; the 
inherent risks associated with the operation and potential construction of nuclear facilities, 
including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; the timing and extent 
of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and the 
ability to recover such costs through the regulatory process, where appropriate, and their 
impact on liquidity positions and the value of underlying assets; the results of financing 
efforts, including the ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected 
by various factors, including credit ratings, interest rate fluctuations and general economic 
conditions; the credit ratings may be different from what the company and its subsidiaries 
expect; declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities and resultant 
cash funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans, other post-retirement benefit 
plans, and nuclear decommissioning trust funds; construction and development risks 
associated with the completion of Duke Energy and its subsidiaries’ capital investment 
projects, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, 
meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental 
performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from customers in a timely 
manner or at all; changes in rules for regional transmission organizations, including changes 
in rate designs and new and evolving capacity markets, and risks related to obligations 
created by the default of other participants; the ability to control operation and maintenance 
costs; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties to transactions; employee workforce 
factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; the ability of 
subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions to Duke Energy Corporation holding company 
(the Parent); the performance of projects undertaken by our nonregulated businesses and 
the success of efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; the effect of accounting 
pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; substantial 
revision to the U .S . tax code, such as changes to the corporate tax rate or a material change 
in the deductibility of interest; the impact of potential goodwill impairments; the ability 
to successfully complete future merger, acquisition or divestiture plans; and the ability to 
successfully integrate the natural gas businesses following the acquisition of Piedmont 
Natural Gas Company, Inc . and realize anticipated benefits .
Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in Duke Energy’s and its 
subsidiaries’ reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website at www .sec .gov .  
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-
looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time 
than described . Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made;  
Duke Energy expressly disclaims an obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise .

discontinued operations . Management believes inclusion of the operating results of the 
disposal groups within adjusted diluted EPS results in a better reflection of Duke Energy’s 
financial performance during the period .
Duke Energy’s adjusted diluted EPS may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure  
of another company because other companies may not calculate the measure in the  
same manner .
The following table presents a reconciliation of reported diluted EPS to adjusted diluted EPS .

Years Ended December 31,

(per diluted share) 
Reported EPS

Adjustments to Reported:

Costs to Achieve Mergers

Cost Savings Initiatives

Commercial Renewables Impairment

Edwardsport Settlement

Ash Basin Settlement and Penalties

Asset Impairment

Coal Ash Plea Agreements Reserve

Asset Sales

Economic Hedges (mark-to-market)

Discontinued Operations

Adjusted Diluted EPS

2016

$3.11

0.48

0.08

0.07

—

—

—

—

—

—

0.95

$4.69

2015

$4 .05

0 .09

0 .13

—

0 .08

0 .02

—

—

—

—

0 .17

$4 .54

2014

$2 .66

0 .18

—

—

—

—

0 .08

0 .14

(0 .01)

0 .01

1 .49

$4 .55

Adjusted Diluted EPS Outlook
Duke Energy’s 2016 Sustainability Report references the five-year, long-term range of annual 
growth of 4 to 6 percent in adjusted diluted EPS (on a compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) 
basis) . Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for future 

periods, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure 
is not available at this time, as management is unable to project all special items for future 
periods, such as legal settlements, the impact of regulatory orders or asset impairments .

Copyright 2017 Duke Energy Corporation • All rights reserved

2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  / 50 /

