2018

Annual Sustainability Report

CONTENTS

Our People ..................................................................................................2

Environmental Sustainability ...............................................................6

Our Products............................................................................................. 11

Our Governance ...................................................................................... 14

Our Headquarters and Regional Offices ....................................... 17

United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals ...................... 18

Our Possibilities ...................................................................................... 19

Vistra Energy Power Plants*

Natural Gas

Coal

Nuclear

Solar / Batteries

Oil

Batteries (under development)

Retail Operations

Plant Operations

Retail and Plant Operations

Regional Office

Company Headquarters

*Note: Does not include plants previously announced to be retired. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CEO’S MESSAGE

As an integrated energy company, Vistra Energy operates an innovative, customer-centric retail business and a 

generation fleet focused on safely, reliably, and efficiently generating power in the communities we serve. 

Electricity is an irreplaceable product that is critical to everyday life, whether it be for residences or businesses. 

We understand and take very seriously our role to provide cost-effective, reliable power to our customers and help 

fuel the economy. We also understand and take very seriously that our business has an environmental footprint. 

We have invested billions of dollars to control emissions, to make our existing power plant fleet more efficient, and 

to advance our generation fleet into newer, more efficient and lower emitting power plants including renewables, 

batteries, and state-of-the-art, gas-fueled assets. 

The supply side of our business is experiencing a transition, some market-driven and some policy-driven, and we 

must manage our company through this transition in an economic manner. It is not an option to just say no to 

change. We can and must participate to the long-term benefit of our company and our stakeholders. We have 

begun the process of rotating our generation fleet and during this process we will operate a wide variety of 

facilities as the fuel mix changes based on opportunity to economically produce electricity and provide reliable, 

cost-effective power to meet our customers’ needs.

Electricity is essential to society’s most important priorities: food production and processing, construction of 

residences and businesses including hospitals and schools, and production of critical goods and services, such 

as military equipment and transportation resources. The reliable production and delivery of power is certainly 

important, but the cost must also be considered. Subsidies and artificial support of electricity resources increase 

the cost to consumers and ultimately crowd out capital that could be used to support the multitude of society’s 

priorities. No one critical societal priority should be emphasized over another, especially through governmental 

subsidies that pick winners and losers. Competitive economics should be allowed to prevail. 

Balance is the key, and it’s a theme you’ll see throughout this sustainability report. Just as our name balances 

“vision” and “tradition,” we are balancing innovation and reliability, sustainability and efficiency. With our recent 

Dynegy merger, we’ve added balance to our geographic presence and the make-up of our generation fleet. Our 

people balance the work they do in the community with work for the community. With our existing facilities, we 

strive to balance the impact they make with the benefits they provide.  

We take a balanced approach to the products we offer, providing customers a wide range of offers to match 

their needs and preferences. And as we look to new technologies, we seek to balance the prospect of developing 

incremental new technologies, such as renewables and batteries, with the financial prudence that has put us in a 

position to pursue it in the first place.

Vistra’s story so far has been one of sustainable success. And, in many ways, our story is just beginning.

Curt Morgan, president and CEO 

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 1

 
OUR PEOPLE

Commitment to community is one of our four core principles. Vistra 

Energy and its subsidiary companies are committed to strengthening the 

communities where we do business, where we have customers, where our 
valued employees live, and where our plants and mines call home. Key 
focus areas for community involvement include:

•  Education

•  Community Welfare

•  Environment/Sustainability

•  Employee Involvement
•  Economic Development 

2  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ANNUAL GIVING CAMPAIGN

Every year, we come together to support our neighbors in need through our United 

Way and TXU Energy AidSM campaign, our foremost giving initiative. Employees and 

the company raised more than $1.61 million in 2018 and more than $10 million in the last 

five years. United Way of Metropolitan Dallas awarded Vistra the 2018 Spirit of Caring 

Award, the most prestigious award given by the organization and in recognition of the 

company’s outstanding community involvement throughout the year. 

 ENERGY IN ACTION

Our people are empowered to get involved in their communities year-round through 

Energy in Action, our employee-led volunteer program. Launched as a grassroots effort 

in 2013, Energy in Action facilitates opportunities for employees to give back through 

team-building events, donation drives, disaster response initiatives, and more. In 2018, 

Vistra Energy employ-

ees and the company 

raised more than $1.61 

million in 2018 and 

more than $10 million 

our people volunteered nearly 5,000 hours at 50 events, engaging more than 800 

in the last five years of 

employees to support critical needs in our communities. 

In 2018, Energy in Action and other community-involvement efforts:

its annual United Way 

and TXU EnergyAidSM 

campaign.

• 

Provided hundreds of toys to 

• 

Donated boots and socks 

• 

Hosted Aim for Advocacy, 

Community Partners of Dallas’ 

through the RSVP Santa Win-

benefiting the Dallas Chil-

annual holiday toy drive 

ter Boot Drive and the Warm 

dren’s Advocacy Center 

a Sole Sock Drive 

• 

Donated $60,000 and dozens 

• 

Encouraged students with 

of employees participated 

• 

Assembled care packages for 

the Back to School Festival 

in the Bike MS: Sam’s Club 

veterans, benefiting NPower 

and Tailgate to Do Great, 

Round-Up Ride supporting 

and Achieve 

the National Multiple Sclerosis 

benefiting the United Way of 

Metropolitan Dallas  

Society 

• 

Participated in the Trinity 

• 

Contributed over 2,500 

Trinity River Association 

donation drives and  

pounds of food to foodbanks 

volunteer events.

River Cleanup, benefiting the 

• 

And a variety of other  

located near our power plants 

• 

Provided meals through the 

and offices, with more than 

Equal Heart summer meals 

600 pounds going to Dallas’ 

program

CitySquare

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 3

IIn addition to the projects and giving campaigns above, Vistra donated more than $1 

million to nonprofit organizations in 2018, including the Irving Family Advocacy Center, 

Peoria Promise scholarship fund, Big Brothers and Big Sisters organization, numer-

ous school districts, fire departments in proximity to our power plant operations, food 

pantries, and more. The company also donated $20,000 to a tornado relief fund for 

Taylorville, Illinois, which is located near Luminant’s Kincaid Power Plant, and provided 

$1,500 to Rusk County’s Emergency Management department for the CodeRed Weather 

Warning System. 

TXU ENERGY AIDSM

TXU Energy, Vistra’s leading retail brand in Texas, has one of the most extensive utility and 

energy assistance programs in the nation. For more than 30 years, TXU Energy AidSM has 

helped Texas families in need keep their homes powered and safe. Through the support 

of our employees, customers, and other donors, TXU Energy AidSM helps an average 

of 20,000 customers each year with bill-payment assistance, supporting social service 

agency partners across Texas. In total, the program has provided more than $100 million 

in bill-payment assistance for 520,000 Texans. TXU Energy AidSM provided $4.6 million in 

funds to approximately 80 partner agencies, assisting nearly 16,000 TXU Energy custom-

ers in 2018.

ENVIRONMENTAL GIVING

Since 2002, TXU Energy has provided nearly 300,000 trees to communities under 

our Trees Across Texas program and longstanding partnership with the Texas Trees 

Foundation. Through these tree donations, TXU Energy has helped generate environmen-

tal savings and health benefits for municipalities and residents valued at approximately 

$37 million annually during the life of the trees.

In addition, for over 15 years, TXU Energy has sponsored the TXU Energy Urban Tree Farm 

and Education Center, which assists the Texas Trees Foundation in their mission to create 

healthy and sustainable communities. The center serves as a resource for urban forestry 

operations, volunteer recruitment, and carbon sink and urban heat island mitigation for 

North Dallas. Year after year, the TXU Energy Urban Tree Farm and Education Center con-

tinues to provide a place for urban forestry education and sharing the importance of trees 

in our communities.

Also, as of the end of 2018, the Luminant Environmental Research Program has provided 

graduate students over $5 million in fellowships for the completion of 110 independent, 

published post-graduate studies related to the company’s environmental footprint.

4  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Vistra Energy employees, family members, and friends have partcipated 

in the annual Bike MS 150 for 14 consecutive years — and counting.

WELLNESS

Vistra believes a healthy workforce leads to greater well-being at work and at home. Our 

employee-led wellness team engages our people to get active and support causes that pro-

mote healthy living. Our headquarters includes an 1,800-square-foot fitness center that offers 

cardio equipment, a selection of free weights, and exercise mats, as well as men’s and women’s 

locker rooms and showers, and our Carpenter Freeway Building includes a 1,300-square-foot 

fitness center, as well. With support from the company, the wellness team covers the regis-

tration costs for employees to participate in more than a dozen running events each year. 

Additionally, the team hosts quarterly blood drives and recruits participants for our cycling 

and soccer teams. In 2018, our people contributed more than 2,000 hours to wellness initia-

tives and activities. 

EMPLOYEE SAFETY

Our safety culture revolves around people and human performance. We place a high impor-

tance on continuous improvement, along with a keen focus on numerous learning and 

error-prevention tools. In 2018, Vistra integrated the safety cultures of both Luminant and 

Dynegy and continued to value safety as our No. 1 priority because our people are our most 

important asset. 

We saw a significant decrease in the number of employee injuries in 2018 as compared to 

2017, and none of the injuries were serious or life-altering. Our Total Recordable Injury Rate1 

for 2018 was 0.82 across all Vistra functions, placing us in the top quartile when compared 

against industry peers.

The Vistra generation fleet has a total of 11 plants that have been awarded the Voluntary 

Protection Program (VPP) Star designation by the Occupational Safety and Health 

Administration (OSHA) for superior demonstration of effective safety and health manage-

ment systems and for maintaining injury and illness rates below the national averages for 

their industry.  

Our surface coal mines also operate in a safe manner and the National Mining Association 

recognized our Kosse Mine employees by awarding them the Sentinels of Safety Award for 

having more than 4,000 injury-free hours.  

1. Total Recordable Injury Rate is a metric defined by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) representing the number of recordable incidents per 100 people

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 5

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY

Vistra’s generation business, Luminant, has an outstanding legacy of 

caring for the environment and serving as a leader in voluntary climate 

stewardship — without sacrificing safe operations, reliable service, or 

affordable power. 

In recent years, the company’s generation portfolio has evolved from one 

that was predominantly fueled by coal and was located only in Texas to 

one that is truly diversified, both in terms of geography and fuel source. 

6  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

In 2018, Vistra owned and operated approximately 

41,000 MW of power plants throughout the United 

States, having merged with Dynegy, which owned a 

number of natural gas-fired, combined-cycle power 

plants. Together with the retirement of three large coal 

plants in Texas, the merger with Dynegy moved our 

portfolio from being mostly coal-fueled to mostly nat-

ural gas-fired. Since 2010, the combined portfolio has 

decreased CO2 emissions by more than 33 percent, SO2 

emissions by 66 percent, and NOx emissions by 44 per-

cent, and we continue to evaluate our power generation 

portfolio to make meaningful reductions. 

Additionally, Vistra is proud to show a reduction in 

our greenhouse gas equivalent rate over time with the 

retirement of coal facilities, the continued running of our 

Comanche Peak Nuclear Power Plant, and the addition 

of renewable energy sources. From 2010 to 2018, our 

2010 GENERATION CAPACITY %
(LUMINANT PRE-MERGER)

2018 GENERATION CAPACITY %

COAL

NATURAL GAS

NUCLEAR

COAL

NATURAL GAS

NUCLEAR

SOLAR + WIND PPAS

EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS OF VISTRA GENERATIONS, SHORT TONS

greenhouse gas equivalent emission rate has decreased 

500K

by 20 percent, from 1,660 lb./MWh to approximately 

1,330 lb./MWh. With the addition of the planned battery 

400K

storage project in California, likely further coal retire-

ments, and potential other opportunities, we expect our 

emission rate to continue to decrease.

ASH BYBRODUCT REUSE 

The Luminant Generation fleet recycles more than 

56 percent of ash byproducts from its coal fleet. In 

2018 more than 3.8 million tons of coal combustion 

300K

200K

100K

0

CO2  
(1000 TONS)

NOx  
(TONS)

SO2  
(TONS)

byproducts were beneficially reused in products, including recycling of fly ash, bottom 

ash, and gypsum products. Reuse of combustion byproducts, which resulted in approxi-

mately $45 million in revenue for the company, is our preferred method of disposal when 

economically viable. The beneficial use of coal ash also reduces greenhouse gases. For 

example, for each ton of fly ash used in place of traditional cement, a reduction of slightly 

less than one ton of carbon dioxide is achieved — the equivalent of about two months of 

emissions from an automobile.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 7

 
RENEWABLE SOURCES

As Vistra continues to look forward, it’s continuing to change the complexion of its fleet 

for maximum efficiency while making disciplined investments in new technologies.

In June of 2018 Vistra commenced operations of the 180 megawatts Upton 2 solar facil-

ity – Texas’ largest operating solar facility. In conjunction with the solar plant, Vistra 

developed and constructed a 10-MW/42-MWh lithium-ion battery storage system. The 

battery storage system, which went into commercial operations on Dec. 31, 2018, will 

enable Vistra to maximize the amount of power generated at Upton 2, capturing excess 

solar energy produced to be released in times of high energy demand, which may not 

be concurrent with peak solar output. In terms of battery storage systems, the Upton 2 

battery is the largest in Texas and the seventh-largest in the United States.

In June of 2018, Vistra Energy announced that the company entered into a 20-year 

resource adequacy contract with Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) for the 

development and construction of a 300-MW/1,200-MWh, battery energy storage project 

at its Moss Landing Power Plant site in Moss Landing, California. The Moss Landing bat-

tery project will be the largest of its kind in the world and will position Vistra as a market 

leader in utility-scale battery development. The Moss Landing battery project will help 

increase local electric reliability by turning on quickly when incremental power supply is 

needed (particularly when California’s large solar genera-

tion fleet powers down for the day), and it will assist 

in curtailing fossil-fueled peaking power plants, 

lessening California’s reliance on fossil- 

fueled electric generation and  

associated water requirements.

8  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

In addition, Vistra, via Luminant, is a large purchaser of wind-generated electricity to support 

our retail products. In 2018, Vistra purchased 808,185 megawatt hours of wind-generated elec-

tricity and another 4,135,892 renewable energy credits to meet our customer demand.

Vistra continues to evaluate and monitor new power facility technologies, including technologies 

that support sequestration or reduction of CO2, incremental renewable sources of electricity, 

energy storage, and related technologies that seek to lower emission intensity. As an example, we 

are actively developing over approximately 1,500 MW of solar projects, with potential online dates 

between 2020-2023. We will balance investment in these new technologies with Vistra’s commit-

ment to providing safe, efficient, and low-cost power.

LAND RECLAMATION

Since mining began more than 45 years ago, Luminant has reclaimed more than 80,000 acres 

for use as pastures, forests, wildlife habitat, and water resources, and the company has secured 

reclamation bond liability releases on 40,000 acres. 

Over the last 44 years, Luminant has planted more than 41 million native trees as part of our 

reclamation program, including over 1.2 million in 2018. More than 30,700 acres of our reforested 

land are certified by the American Tree Farm System as sustainably managed woodlands, and 

the Federal Office of Surface Mining has indicated that we plant more trees annually than any 

mining company in the U.S.

We have created or enhanced more than 6,800 acres of wetlands, ponds, and stream channels 

on our restored lands, dramatically increasing water resources for the benefit of wildlife and live-

stock. Luminant has received over 90 awards for reclamation excellence, including an unprec-

edented five Director’s Awards, the highest honor from the U.S. Department of the Interior’s 

Office of Surface Mining, and we were recently recognized by the Stephen F. Austin State 

University Board of Regents for nearly 50 years of commitment to environmental education.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 9

SUPPLIER DIVERSITY

Vistra believes that a supply chain comprised of businesses whose ownership reflects all 

of the community helps to drive costs, innovation, and market penetration. By growing 

and developing these small and diverse firms – including companies with federal desig-

nations of small business, small disadvantaged business, small women-owned business, 

small business located in HUB Zones, and small business owned by veterans and service- 

disabled veterans — we are investing in our own customer base. In addition to selling our 

services to and through these businesses themselves, our strong supply chain diversity 

initiative benefits many of our large commercial as well as federal, state, and local cus-

tomers – providing a competitive advantage for us.

Among Vistra’s supplier diversity and inclusion highlights in 2018: 

Vistra Energy was honored with the Gold Top Corporation 

Award for offering opportunities to women’s business enter-

prises at the WBENC Summit & Salute Conference. Vistra is one 

of only a handful of companies that is considered a leader in the 

industry for partnering with women business owners throughout 

the U.S.

Vistra Energy was recognized by the Dallas Fort Worth Minority 

Supplier Development Council as a “Buy Those That Buy Us”™ Corporation rec-

ognizing best practices that have achieved real results utilizing certified MBEs and 

encourages others to include these best practices in their supplier diversity pro-

grams. We were also recognized as having a “Best Practice” for having completed 

an Supplier Diversity Economic Impact Study 

President and CEO Curt Morgan, Vice President of Supply Chain Phil Seidler, and 

Director of Supply Chain Diversity Heather Herndon Wright were recognized by 

Business News as “Best of the Decade” in Supplier Diversity.

10  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OUR PRODUCTS

Vistra’s retail presence spans six of the seven competitive markets in the 

U.S., and our portfolio of products balances the needs and preferences of 

our customers. In Texas, Vistra’s retail brand TXU Energy has been a leader 

in offering customers products that are renewable and conservation-fo-

cused. These products include:

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS & SOLAR DAYSSM —  

A first-of-its kind plan, Free Nights & Solar Days 

offers residential customers 100 percent renew-

able energy (100 percent wind power at night 

and 100 percent solar during the day). As with 

the initial Free Nights product, this offer capital-

izes on low-cost wind-generated energy in Texas. 

As of 2018, twice as many Texans are enrolled on 

TXU Energy solar plans than own rooftop solar 

panels in the competitive Texas market.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 11

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS® — TXU Energy was the first 

retail electric provider in the state to offer a time-of-use 

plan when it rolled out TXU Energy Free Nights in 2012, giv-

ing customers a chance to save energy charges by shifting 

energy-intensive activities to certain hours. The company 

later enhanced the product offering to include weekends or 

other designated times, and it is TXU Energy’s highest-rated 

plan. The product allows Vistra to capitalize on low-cost 

wind-generated energy in Texas, and, on average, Free Nights customers get nearly 40 

percent of their electricity for free. 

TXU ENERGY TEXAS CHOICESM — One of our most popular plans, Texas Choice offers 

25 percent renewable energy, which is over four times the state’s regulatory require-

ments. Residential customers also earn 3 percent cash-back loyalty rewards on their 

annual electricity spend.

TXU SOLAR CLUB — This first-of-its-kind, membership-style plan provides residential 

customers clean energy purchased from Texas solar farms. The shared solar offer gives 

customers benefits similar to a rooftop solar array 

without the cost of installing a system.

TXU SOLAR FROM SUNPOWER — TXU Energy has 

partnered with SunPower to offer the market’s 

highest-efficiency rooftop solar panels. Residen-

tial customers can take advantage of incentives 

like federal tax credits or rebates through TDUs 

for installing SunPower’s high-performance solar 

arrays, and they can earn bill credits when their sys-

tem produces more energy than their home uses. 

TXU ENERGY RENEWABLE BUYBACKSM — This plan 

pays customers for their surplus power generated 

by renewable energy equipment, like solar panels 

or wind turbines. 

TXU ENERGY GREENUPSM — We offer our residen-

tial and small commercial customers an opportu-

nity to support clean energy by making any of our 

feature-rich pricing plans “green.” With GreenUp, we buy power and renewable energy 

credits from Texas wind power equal to a customer’s total electricity usage, helping 

increase how much clean energy is produced in Texas. In 2018, TXU Energy retired 

enough renewable energy credits from residential customer purchases to power nearly 

228,000 homes for a year. [source: EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalency Calculator]

12  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

TXU iTHERMOSTATTM — TXU Energy introduced the first 

two-way, Internet-enabled thermostat in Texas’ competitive 

electricity market in 2009. The WiFi-enabled thermostat 

allows customers to set a schedule from their smartphone 

or the thermostat and remotely adjust settings with the 

tap of a button.

MYENERGY DASHBOARD — TXU Energy believes that 

helping customers better understand how and when they 

use electricity improves their overall experience and saves 

them money. The TXU Energy MyEnergy Dashboard is a free tool that allows residential and 

business customers to examine their electricity usage to reduce energy consumption and, 

ultimately, lower their electric bills. It also provides a forecast of what their usage and cost 

could be at the end of the month, based on current usage pat-

terns, giving them valuable insights that can lead to behavioral 

CUSTOMERS TRENDING TOWARD RENEWABLE PRODUCTS

changes.

TXU REDUCTION REWARDS — When we identify times the 

market could benefit from lower demand, our large business 

customers can choose to reduce use and get paid for doing so. 

TXU GREENBACK — We award our large business customers 

nearly $2 million a year in rebates for making energy-efficiency 

improvements to their facilities.

In addition to the products listed above, TXU Energy also offers 

customized solutions to help large business customers hit their 

100K

90K

80K

70K

60K

50K

40K

30K

20K

10K

sustainability targets, with wind PPAs, utility scale solar plant, 

2010

2011

2012

2013

2015

2016

2017

2018

or onsite solar solutions.

Vistra’s retail brands also include Dynegy and Homefield Energy in 

the northeast, and Express Energy and 4Change Energy in Texas. The 

latter was founded on the idea that electricity should be affordable 

and contribute to where its customers live. 4Change contributes 4 

percent of its profits to the following Texas charities: 

As Vistra expands its retail footprint outside of Texas, we will con-

tinue to evaluate the best way to offer a variety of products to meet 

our customers’ needs for affordable, reliable, and renewable electric-

ity.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 13

OUR GOVERNANCE

Vistra is led by a team of industry veterans with expertise across all 

areas of the energy business, including a board of directors with a 

diverse set of experiences providing guidance and governance. While 

the board has delegated management of the company’s day-to-day 

operations to its executive officers, the following board committees 

provide specific review and approval of certain matters:

BOARD COMMITTEES

AUDIT COMMITTEE 

The principal purposes of the Audit Committee are to oversee the quality and  

integrity of Vistra’s financial statements, the financial reporting processes and financial 

statement audits, the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence, the perfor-

mance of the company’s internal audit function and independent auditor, the systems 

of disclosure controls and procedures, and the company’s system of internal controls over 

financial reporting, accounting, legal compliance, and ethics, including the effectiveness 

of disclosure controls and controls over processes that could have a significant impact on 

the financial statements. 

The Audit Committee’s purpose is also to foster open communications among the inde-

pendent auditor, financial and senior management, internal audit, and the board, as well 

as to encourage continuous improvement and foster adherence to the company’s poli-

cies, procedures, and practices at all levels. 

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 

The purpose of the Compensation Committee is to discharge the board’s responsibili-

ties relating to compensation of directors, the chief executive officer, executive officers, 

and other company leaders. The Compensation Committee reviews and recommends 

to the board compensation plans, policies, and programs, and it also approves individ-

ual executive officer compensation that is intended to attract, retain, and appropriately 

reward employees in order to motivate their performance in the achievement of the 

company’s business objectives and align their interests with the long-term interests of 

the company’s stockholders.

NOMINATING AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 

The Nominating and Governance Committee’s purpose is to identify individuals qualified to 

become board members (consistent with criteria approved by the board), recommend to 

the board the company’s director candidates for election at the annual meeting of stock-

holders, annually review the corporate governance guidelines of the company, and oversee 

14  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

A full roster of current 

board members and 

leadership can be found 

online at  

www.vistraenergy.com

the annual performance evaluation of the board and its committees. The committee also 

recommends directors to serve on all committees of the board. 

RISK COMMITTEE 

While Vistra’s board of directors has delegated management of the company’s day-to-

day operations to its executive officers, the board expressly reserves certain matters for 

review and board approval. The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the board 

in discharging its responsibilities with respect to oversight of management’s process 

for the identification, evaluation, and mitigation of enterprise risk, the company’s risk 

related to commodity prices, the company’s management of its insurance programs, 

and investment policies and performance with respect to the company’s pension and 

nuclear decommissioning programs. (Enterprise Risk is defined as management’s 

assessment and prioritization of the key factors with potential to have an impact on the 

company’s business and functional operations.)

MANAGEMENT

There are three standing committees that comprise the primary governance forums for 

day to day management of the company: the management committee, commitments 

MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

committee, and risk management committee.

The MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE consists of the chief executive officer and his direct 

reports, as well leaders who represent key business areas and support functions. This 

COMMITMENTS 
COMMITTEE

RISK  
MANAGEMENT 
 COMMITTEE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

weekly meeting includes discussion and decision-making related to general strategy 

and policy items, operational updates, and other items not presented at either commit-

tee listed below. The management committee provides the forum for information shar-

ing, prioritization, and cross-business and cross-functional coordination.

The COMMITMENTS COMMITTEE includes, as voting members: president and CEO 

(chair), chief financial officer, general counsel, chief operating officer, chief adminis-

trative officer, and senior vice president of corporate development and strategy. The 

committee’s standing invitees include all other direct reports to the CEO, president of 

retail, chief compliance officer, chief commercial officer, chief risk officer, treasurer, vice 

president of planning, and controller. The committee provides operational oversight 

of Vistra’s commitment activities, ensuring that prior to committing and deploying 

company resources in connection with a transaction, an appropriate level of analysis 

and review is performed, and appropriate approvals are obtained. The committee also 

approves transactions within transaction authority limits delegated by the Vistra board 

of directors. 

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 15

There are three sub-committees of the Commitments Committee that are governed 

under the commitments committee policy: 

•  The Procurement / Third-Party Steering Committee provides oversight and 

approval for commercial initiatives related to third-party spend.

•  The Technology Steering Committee provides oversight and approval for 

technology initiatives that will commit resources of the company through 

technology-funded  

capital and/or expense projects.

•  The Operations Performance Improvement steering committee provides 

oversight for power plant operations improvements and potential investments 

including the ongoing implementation of initiatives and proliferation of best 

practices through excellence forums.

The RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE’s members include: president and CEO, chief 

financial officer (chair), chief operating officer, senior vice president of corporate devel-

opment and strategy, chief commercial officer, chief risk officer, president of retail, 

treasurer, vice president of planning, controller, and vice president of regulatory trading 

and generation. The Risk Committee provides risk management oversight, monitoring, 

control, and guidance for all risk management activities at Vistra, and it approves risk 

management activities within limits delegated by the board of directors through the 

Risk Management Policy and Commitments Committee delegation of authority.

ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE

Vistra’s leadership and employees are committed to exercising the highest level of eth-

ical standards in everything we do. Our Code of Conduct establishes the ethics and 

compliance standards for employees at all levels across the company, including board 

members. While the Code of Conduct is specifically written for Vistra employees and 

board members, we expect contractors, consultants, interns, and others who may 

be temporarily assigned to perform work or services for Vistra to follow the Code of 

Conduct in connection with their work for us. The audit committee reviews the Code  

of Conduct annually and approves all changes we make. Additionally, all Vistra employ-

ees complete required Code of Conduct training annually.

16  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OUR HEADQUARTERS AND REGIONAL OFFICES

Vistra’s corporate headquarters, located in Irving, Texas, has received the EPA’s prestigious En-

ergy Star recognition for the past decade, and our regional offices have received the honor as 

well (see below). In addition to a robust deskside recycling program, Vistra has also implemented 

a green cleaning program for a healthier workforce and reduced environmental footprint. Elec-

tric vehicle charging stations are available at Vistra’s headquarters and other locations.

LOCATION

ENERGY STAR

LEED

Energy Plaza 

Dallas, TX

Mesquite Data Center
Mesquite, TX

Carpenter Freeway Building
Irving, TX

Sierra (headquarters)
Irving, TX

600/601 Travis St.  
Houston, TX

1000 Louisiana St.  
Houston, TX

Liberty Place
Washington D.C.

2603 August Dr.  
Houston, TX

2008-18

2011-18

2011-18

2009-18

2004-18

2011-18

2012-18

2010 – LEED Gold for 
Existing Buildings

BOMA 360*

2012-2018

2013 – LEED Silver for 
Existing Buildings

2015-2018

2015-2018

2009 – LEED for  
Commercial Interiors

2015-2018

2010 – LEED Gold for 
Existing Buildings

2013 – LEED Gold for  
Existing Buildings

2016 – LEED Gold for 
Existing Buildings

2009-18

2009 – LEED Gold for 

Existing Buildings

*The Building Owners and Managers Association’s BOMA 360 Performance Program takes a holistic approach to evaluating building operations and management, 

and benchmarks a building’s performance against industry standards, recognizing commercial properties that demonstrate best practices. The award takes into 

consideration a property’s sustainability initiatives, safety/security/risk management, training and educations of building personnel, energy management, tenant 

relations, and community inv-olvement. 

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 17

UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS

Vistra’s balanced approach to providing electricity aligns closely with the United Nations’ 

Sustainable Development Goals. Ensuring that affordable, reliable power is available to 

the markets Vistra serves is important to the goals of reducing poverty; eliminating hun-

ger; promoting good health and well-being; supporting quality education; the provision 

of clean water and sanitation; the availability of decent work and economic growth; the 

promotion of industry, innovation, and infrastructure; development of sustainable cities 

and communities; and the promotion of responsible consumption and production. In addi-

tion, Vistra is committed to improving the environments where we operate by serving our 

customers and communities through more efficient — and cleaner — applications of energy, 

including improving our operations and investing in new technologies. We prioritize the 

generation of reliable and cost-effective power for our customers, while maintaining 

steadfast compliance with changing environmental rules and regulations.

Vistra’s strategy aligns with three UN goals:

•  Upton 2 Solar Power Plant

•  Solar developer and pro-

•  40+ years of land 

•  Largest wind purchaser  

in Texas

•  Battery storage develop-

vider of solar panels for 

reclamation

residential customers

•  300,000 plus trees provid-

•  Fleet optimization

ed to Trees Across Texas 

ment in Texas and California

•  Supports city efficiency 

program

efforts (City of Dallas)

•  TXU Urban Tree Farm and 

Education Center

•  Luminant environmental 

research program

•  Supports competitive  

energy markets

•  TXU Energy Aid

•  Renewable products  

•  Employee wellness program

offered in all markets

18  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

LOOKING AHEAD

2018 was a transformative year for Vistra. We closed our merger with 

Dynegy in April, achieved outstanding performance from our generation 

fleet, continued to change the complexion of our fleet, and continued to 

grow our retail business, by customer counts, geographic service area, 

and market-leading innovation.

Our Upton 2 Solar and Energy Storage Facility, the largest in Texas and the seventh-larg-

est in the United States, has set the stage for similar projects. The Moss Landing battery 

storage project, currently the world’s largest battery project, is expected to be online in 

the fourth quarter of 2020. Vistra continues its advancement of renewable energy and 

battery energy storage projects with over 500 MWs in the near-term development pipe-

line, and we are actively developing nearly 1,500 MW of solar projects, with the potential 

online dates between 2020 and 2023.

The retail group continues to respond to and anticipate the needs and preferences of our 

customers. In Texas, Vistra’s retail brand TXU Energy has been a leader in offering cus-

tomers products that are renewable and conservation-focused. And the retail team con-

tinues to expand its footprint and scope. In addition to the customers Vistra now serves 

through the Dynegy and Homefield Energy brands, Vistra launched Brighten Energy in 

the first quarter of 2019, supplying renewable energy to socially conscious customers in 

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 19

Illinois, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. Also, Vistra announced an agreement to acquire Crius 

Energy Trust and its portfolio of high-quality brands, with an expected transaction close 

in the second quarter of 2019.

Vistra understands that our operations have an environmental impact, but we also can’t 

lose sight of the fact that electricity is essential to society’s most important priorities, and 

reliable production and delivery of affordable power is a critical service we provide. We 

are constantly balancing innovation, reliability, and sustainability in our operations. 

For instance, in March 2019, Vistra announced its support for a new legislative effort – the 

Illinois Coal to Solar and Energy Storage Act of 2019. The bill would transition existing 

downstate coal plants in Illinois to renewable sources of utility-scale solar and energy 

storage that will help meet the state’s evolving energy goals. The Illinois Coal to Solar and 

Energy Storage Act would ultimately reduce Vistra’s Illinois subsidiaries’ total fleet emis-

sions by 75 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. Per this legislation, for each megawatt of 

new utility-scale solar and battery storage installed at existing coal plants, five times as 

many megawatts of existing coal-fueled generation must be retired by 2030. 

Also in March, following a request by the Illinois EPA to further negotiate the Multi-

Pollutant Standards rule in Illinois, Vistra reached a compromise and accepted proposed 

revisions to the rule that will, among, other things, result in the retirement of 2,000 MW of 

its coal generation capacity, further reducing emissions.

As our company continues to evolve with changing technologies and customer prefer-

ences we continue to assess our long-term environmental footprint. Combined with this 

assessment and our vision for the future of our businesses, Vistra expects to announce its 

long-term emissions targets in 2019.

With its balanced, integrated approach of customer-centric retail and reliable generation, 

its disciplined investment in renewable energy projects, and its dedicated, caring work-

force, Vistra is poised for even more success. Success that can be sustained for many 

years into the future. 

20  — VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ABOUT VISTRA ENERGY 

Vistra Energy (NYSE: VST) is a premier, integrated power company based in Irving, Texas, combining an innovative, customer-centric 
approach to retail with a focus on safe, reliable, and efficient power generation. Through its retail and generation businesses which include 
TXU Energy, Homefield Energy, Dynegy, and Luminant, Vistra operates in 12 states and six of the seven competitive markets in the U.S., with 
about 5,400 employees. Vistra's retail brands serve approximately 2.9 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers across five 
top retail states, and its generation fleet totals approximately 41,000 megawatts of highly efficient generation capacity, with a diverse port-
folio of natural gas, nuclear, coal, solar, and battery storage facilities. The company is currently developing the largest battery energy storage 
system of its kind in the world – a 300-MW/1,200-MWh system in Moss Landing, California. 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

The information presented herein includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 
of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended. These forward-looking 
statements, which are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industry and markets in which Vistra Energy 
Corp. ("Vistra Energy") operates and beliefs of and assumptions made by Vistra Energy's management, involve risks and uncertainties, which 
are difficult to predict and are not guarantees of future performance, that could significantly affect the financial results of Vistra Energy. 
All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that are presented herein, or in response to questions or otherwise, that address 
activities, events or developments that may occur in the future, including such matters as activities related to our financial or operation-
al projections, projected synergy, value lever and net debt targets, capital allocation, capital expenditures, liquidity, projected Adjusted 
EBITDA to free cash flow conversion rate, dividend policy, business strategy, competitive strengths, goals, future acquisitions or dispositions, 
development or operation of power generation assets, market and industry developments and the growth of our businesses and operations 
(often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases, or the negative variations of those words or other comparable words of a future 
or forward-looking nature, including, but not limited to, "intends," "plans," "will likely," "unlikely," "believe," "expect," "seek," "anticipate," 
"estimate," "continue," "will," "shall," "should," "could," "may," "might," "predict," "project," "forecast," "target," "potential," "forecast," "goal," 
"objective," "guidance" and "outlook"), are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-look-
ing statements. Although Vistra Energy believes that in making any such forward-looking statement, Vistra Energy's expectations are 
based on reasonable assumptions, any such forward-looking statement involves uncertainties and risks that could cause results to differ 
materially from those projected in or implied by any such forward-looking statement, including but not limited to (i) adverse changes in 
general economic or market conditions (including changes in interest rates) or changes in political conditions or federal or state laws and 
regulations; (ii) the ability of Vistra Energy to execute upon the contemplated strategic and performance initiatives (including the risk that 
Vistra Energy's and Dynegy's respective businesses will not be integrated successfully or that the cost savings, synergies and growth from 
the merger will not be fully realized or may take longer than expected to realize); (iii) actions by credit ratings agencies, (iv) with respect 
to the proposed Crius acquisition, (x) the ability of the parties to obtain all required approvals, including regulatory approvals and Crius 
unitholder approval, (y) the parties ability to otherwise successfully consummate the transaction, and (z) for Vistra to successfully integrate 
the Crius business as currently projected, and (v) those additional risks and factors discussed in reports filed with the Securities and Ex-
change Commission ("SEC") by Vistra Energy from time to time, including the uncertainties and risks discussed in the sections entitled "Risk 
Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in Vistra Energy's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and any 
subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only at the date on which it is made, and except as may be required by law, Vistra Energy will not 
undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or 
to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all of them; nor can 
Vistra Energy assess the impact of each such factor or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ 
materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  

  VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 21

 
Vistra Energy Corp. 
6555 Sierra Drive
Irving, TX 75039
www.vistraenergy.com

NYSE: VST

