2019

Annual Sustainability Report

June 2020

ABOUT VISTRA

Vistra (NYSE: VST) is a leading, integrated, Fortune 275 energy company based in Irving, Texas, providing essential resources 

for customers, commerce, and communities. Vistra combines an innovative, customer-centric approach to retail with safe, 

reliable, diverse, and efficient power generation. The company brings its products and services to market in 20 states and 

the District of Columbia, including six of the seven competitive wholesale markets in the U.S. and markets in Canada and 

Japan, as well. Serving nearly 5 million residential, commercial, and industrial retail customers with electricity and natural 

gas, Vistra is the largest competitive residential electricity provider in the country and offers over 40 renewable energy 

plans. The company is also the largest competitive power generator in the U.S. with a capacity of approximately 39,000 

megawatts powered by a diverse portfolio, including natural gas, nuclear, solar, and battery energy storage facilities. In 

addition, the company is a large purchaser of wind power. The company is currently constructing a 400-MW/1,600-MWh 

battery energy storage system in Moss Landing, California, which will be the largest of its kind in the world when it comes 

online. Vistra is guided by four core principles: we do business the right way, we work as a team, we compete to win, and 

we care about our stakeholders, including our customers, our communities where we work and live, our employees, and our 

investors. Learn more about Vistra’s environmental, social, and governance efforts and read the company’s sustainability 

report at https://www.vistraenergy.com/sustainability/.

Vistra Energy Power Plants*

Natural Gas

Nuclear

Solar / Batteries

Coal

Oil

Batteries (under development)

Retail Operations

Plant Operations

Retail and Plant Operations

Regional Office

Company Headquarters

*Note: Does not include  plants previously announced to be retired.

OUR BRANDS

Through a variety of retail brands and various marketing channels, Vistra balances the needs and preferences of its customers 

through a vast portfolio of products and services, including green energy and conservation-focused products.

CONTENTS
SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE

$3.393 BILLION

ONGOING OPERATIONS 
ADJUSTED EBITDA FOR 2019

MORE THAN

40

RENEWABLE 
ENERGY PLANS

ANNOUNCED GOALS TO ACHIEVE 50% REDUCTION IN  
SCOPE 1 CO2e EMISSIONS BY 2030, 80% REDUCTION BY 2050 
WITH SIGHTS SET ON REACHING NET-ZERO CARBON BY 205O

78%

OF 2030 TARGET 

ACHIEVED

OVER $3.5M

OF CHARITABLE GIVING 
ACROSS 11 STATES*

NEARLY

450 MW

OF BATTERY STORAGE 
UNDER DEVELOPMENT 
WITH ADDITIONAL 
~700-750 MW  
OF OPPORTUNITY  
AT OUR EXISTING  
MOSS LANDING AND 
OAKLAND SITES

DECREASE

IN GHG EMISSIONS 

SINCE 2010

80,000+

ACRES
OF LAND  
RECLAIMED

180 MW OF INSTALLED SOLAR 
CAPACITY WITH OVER

2,000 MW

OF DEVELOPMENT  
OPPORTUNITY  
IN THE PIPELINE

NEARLY

13,000 MW

OF COAL-FUELED PLANTS  
RETIRED SINCE 2010

5,400+

EMPLOYEES

13 

FACILITIES 
WITH OSHA 
VPP STAR 
RATING

POTENTIAL FOR UP TO 300 MW OF 
UTILITY-SCALE SOLAR PROJECTS AND 
UP TO 150 MW OF ENERGY STORAGE 
FACILITIES IN ILLINOIS UNDER THE COAL 
TO SOLAR AND ENERGY STORAGE ACT

*Includes $1.6 million of corporate giving and $1.92 million from Vistra’s Annual Giving Campaign making a direct impact    
in more than 45 communities in 2019. Excludes $2 million donated to COVID-19 relief efforts in 2020. 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 1

CONTENTS
CONTENTS

CORE PRINCIPLES ........................................................................................................... 3

LETTER FROM CEO ......................................................................................................... 4

LETTER FROM CSO ..........................................................................................................7

GOVERNANCE ................................................................................................................... 9

Board Committees .................................................................................................. 9

Recent Corporate Governance Developments ............................................10

Management Committees .................................................................................... 11

Risk Management .................................................................................................... 11

Code of Conduct..................................................................................................... 12

Data Privacy and Information Security .......................................................... 12

ENVIRONMENT................................................................................................................. 13

Environmental Performance ...............................................................................14

Renewable Resources ........................................................................................... 15

Environmental Giving ............................................................................................16

EMPLOYEES .......................................................................................................................18

Safety ..........................................................................................................................18

Diversity .....................................................................................................................19

Training and Development .................................................................................20

Employee Benefits ................................................................................................. 21

  Wellness .................................................................................................................... 22

Facilities .................................................................................................................... 22

SUPPLY CHAIN ................................................................................................................ 23

CUSTOMERS ..................................................................................................................... 25

COMMUNITIES .................................................................................................................28

Initiatives and Campaigns ..................................................................................29

Political Involvement ........................................................................................... .31

APPENDICES .................................................................................................................... 32

Forward Looking Statement ............................................................................. 32

SASB Standards Table .........................................................................................33

GRI Index...................................................................................................................36

2 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CORE PRINCIPLES

WE DO BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY

Every decision we make and action we take will be evidence of the utmost 

integrity and compliance. Conducting our daily activities within the laws, 

regulations, and rules is not an option we choose but rather the way we 

do business that is ingrained in our culture. 

WE WORK AS A TEAM

We are committed to each other, in everything we do and to the success 

of our company. Collaboration, information sharing, and cross-functional 

teamwork are fundamental to how we conduct our day-to-day activities.

WE COMPETE TO WIN

We will create the leading integrated energy company with an unmatched 

work ethic, an analysis-driven and disciplined culture with strong leader-

ship and decision-making throughout the organization.

WE CARE ABOUT OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS

We care about our employees, customers, and communities where we live 

and do business. We will maintain productive and respectful relationships 

with our elected officials, regulators and community leaders. We strive to 

achieve the full value of our enterprise for our investors.

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 3

LETTER FROM THE CEO

THE PUBLICATION OF OUR 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 

ple healthy and safe, and maintaining our essential business 

finds us at a very challenging time as we face the invisible, 

operations — a difficult balancing act. We have counted well 

highly contagious, and dangerous COVID-19 virus. This highly 

more than 100 new activities and forums that have been 

disruptive disease has created unprecedented harm to soci-

ety that has had a ripple effect on the worldwide economy 

and threatens the sustainability of businesses across multiple 

sectors — big and small. Vistra provides an essential product 

to businesses and residences — the electricity that powers 

mandated by the crisis. To accomplish keeping our people 

healthy and safe we initiated the following procedures very 

early on in the advent of COVID-19:

•  Conducting questionnaires and temperature testing 

at the entry point of all facilities — one of the first 

companies to do so. 

•  Work from home for all non-location specific  

employees.

•  Physical distancing at all essential sites, separation of 

shift changes and segregation of critical operators.

•  Availability of sanitary supplies to support frequent 

and proper hygiene.

•  Requiring facial coverings at all sites, which were 

also provided to employees and members of their 

immediate family.

•  Adjusting pay practices for operational facilities in 

the event of sequestration to maintain reliability and 

to adhere to the CARES Act.

•  Early and consistent adopter of quarantining of 

suspected infected employees and tracing potential 

exposed employees.

•  Established plans to sequester essential employees, 

if necessary, including food and sleeping provisions.

our lives. Medical equipment and devices, homes, public 

•  Assistance to customers in need including offering 

utilities, and many other critical elements of life do not func-

payment plans, deferring late fees, and avoiding 

tion without electricity. Most notably, the electricity must be 

disconnects.

produced by generating plants, which still require people 

to operate and maintain. Of course, our essential business 

cannot sustain itself with just these operations alone. We 

must purchase fuel, buy parts and equipment, pay invoices, 

collect revenues, account for our business activities and file 

financials with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pay 

taxes, maintain cyber security and business systems — just 

•  Donating $2 million to communities in need through 

donations to non-profits and social service agencies.

•  Frequent communication on a company-wide basis 

stressing these procedures and continued adher-

ence to them.

to name a few necessary activities. Since the onset of the 

Our board members have been actively engaged during the 

COVID-19 virus, we have been focused on keeping our peo-

COVID-19 crisis, participating in weekly calls led by management 

4 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

to ensure Vistra is taking appropriate actions to both manage 

make our existing power plant fleet more efficient, and to 

the risks brought on by COVID-19 and also to support our 

advance our generation fleet into newer, more efficient,  

employees, contractors, communities, and other stakeholders 

and lower-emitting power plants including renewables, bat-

during this challenging time.

teries, and state-of-the-art, highly efficient, lower emitting 

We are proud that, as of the date of publication of this report, 

gas-fueled assets. 

these procedures have contributed to limiting our COVID-19 

Also in 2019, Vistra joined the Climate Leadership Council 

positive tests to two in a population of approximately 5,500 

as a founding member, advocating for a carbon fee and 

employees in 20 states and the District of Columbia, including 

dividend approach as the ideal public policy to incentivize in-

the Northeast, MidAtlantic, and Midwest, and over 3,000 con-

vestments in carbon-free and carbon-reducing technologies 

tractors on our sites completing 86 spring power plant main-

while mitigating the financial impacts on the economically 

tenance outages—with both of these cases contracted outside 

disadvantaged. (See “Letter from the CSO” for more details.)

of work. Fortunately, both individuals have fully recovered. We 

are also proud that we have been able to help our customers 

and communities during this difficult time. It is not just good 

business, it is the right thing to do.

Our company is well on its way to achieving its 2030 

CO2 equivalent emissions reduction target. Following the 
merger with Dynegy in April 2018, we meaningfully reduced 

the percentage of our total generation from coal assets, and 

SINCE OCTOBER 2016, VISTRA SET FORTH ON A STRATEGIC 

direction for sustainability built on a strong balance sheet, an 

our installed capacity is now over 70% low- to no-CO2-emit-
ting natural gas, nuclear, and renewables and the EBITDA 

integrated business model, low-cost operations, and a leading 

contribution of these low emitting assets along with our re-

retail platform. In addition, we embarked on a portfolio op-

tail business is approximately 83%. Since 2010 the combined 

timization effort aimed at investing in assets with long-term 

staying power filtered by economic value and sensitivity to 

climate impacts. Our strategic direction has buoyed Vistra 

portfolio has decreased CO2 equivalent emissions by more 
than 39%, taking nearly 240 million metric tons of CO2 equiv-
alent emissions out of the air. In addition, in 2019 we retired 

through the COVID-19 pandemic and placed the company in 

four coal plants, totaling approximately 2,000 MW, in Illinois 

a strong position for the future. Now more than ever, Vistra’s 

and announced plans to retire a fifth coal plant by year-end 

leadership in the ESG space is critical. As we move into the 

2022. These retirements will further advance our progress 

next decade Vistra is committed to continue:

• 

Investing in new technologies, ensuring the avail-

ability of safe and reliable power while reducing our 

carbon footprint, 

•  Prioritizing the health and safety of our employees 

while supporting the communities we serve, and

•  Advancing our governance framework to protect 

the interests of our stakeholders.

As we detail in the pages that follow, Vistra continued to 

demonstrate its leadership in these areas throughout 2019, 

starting with the announcement of our greenhouse gas emis-

sions reduction targets. 

toward achieving our long-term emissions reduction targets 

by reducing CO2 equivalents an additional approximately 11% 
compared to a 2010 baseline. 

Our retail business has over 40 renewable-based plans 

available to our customers, and our development team has a 

pipeline of potential renewable and energy storage proj-

ects that will further transition our generation fleet toward 

low-to-no carbon emitting resources. In fact, we believe it 

is imperative that we transform our company over the next 

several years to support our long-term sustainability. Vistra’s 

10-year view, shown below, provides a glimpse into the po-

tential transformation of our business, forecasting an asset 

mix that we believe will support electric system reliability 

while providing customers with cost-effective energy that 

meets their sustainable preferences and significantly reduces 

Specifically, last year Vistra announced a goal to achieve a 

our carbon footprint. Notably, this 10-year view assumes 

greater than 50% reduction in CO2 equivalent emissions by 
2030 with a long-term objective to achieve a greater than 

Vistra will retire approximately 7,000 MW of additional coal 

generation and invest in approximately 6,000 MW of renew-

80% reduction in CO2 equivalent emissions by 2050, each as 
compared to a 2010 baseline, with our sights set on reaching 

ables and battery storage between now and 2030. Vistra is 

focused on becoming a clean energy company with expecta-

net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, assuming necessary ad-

tions that nearly 20% of its EBITDA and generation capacity 

vancements in technology and supportive market constructs 

will be derived from renewable assets by 2030. We expect we 

and public policy. This commitment builds on the billions 

will achieve this transformation of the supply side of our busi-

of dollars we have already invested to control emissions, to 

ness through approximately $5 billion dollars of investments 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 5

over the next decade. This transformation of our generation 

Oakland Power Plant. In Illinois, the proposed Coal to Solar 

portfolio, combined with our existing low-emitting natural gas 

and Energy Storage Act of 2019 would invest in utility-scale 

fleet and leading retail business with significant and growing 

solar and battery storage at existing plant sites,  

“green” offerings for our customers, is the Vistra of the future. 

resulting in up to 500 MW of new, clean generation. We’re 

It is very important to note that natural gas-fueled genera-

also evaluating nearly 3,000 MW of solar and battery projects 

tion will be a necessary transition resource for many years 

in Texas and California for future development. 

to come, as a complement to renewables. Natural gas-fueled 

generation provides cost-effective, flexible, and reliable dis-

patch of electricity, and will also provide the critical backstop 

to intermittent renewables. In fact, we have already seen 

evidence of the critical need for dispatchable resources in the 

heavy renewable markets of California, Texas, and Germany.

Importantly, we strongly believe these projections are attainable 

without sacrificing safe, reliable, and cost-effective operations, 

and without any negative impact to Vistra’s long-term viability. 

In fact, we believe Vistra’s long-term strategy will position us  

to be a sustainable industry leader for years to come.

The development of these projects and the further outlook of 

our company are dependent on our greatest asset — our people. 

The safety and wellbeing of our employees is our no. 1 priority. 

Vistra is not just about making money. We believe corp-

orations have an obligation to a broad set of constituents 

including employees, customers, communities, and investors — 

 especially during times like these. In the pages that follow, 

you will find the results of Vistra’s commitment to the 

environment, its employees, and the communities we serve.

In the near term, our development of the 400-MW/1,600-

MWh energy storage system at Moss Landing is on track, and 

we are nearing final approval to develop a 36.25-MW/145-

Curt Morgan 

MWh energy storage system at the site of Luminant’s existing 

President and CEO

10-YEAR OUTLOOK

2020E

2030E
ILLUSTRATIVE

EBITDA 
by Source

26%

17%

27%

9%

0.5%

6%

51%

18%

5%

41%

0.7% 0.5%

6%

10%

18%

29%

7%

64%

65%

Capacity  
by Fuel 
Type

6 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Retail

Gas

Nuclear

Renewables

Oil

Coal

LETTER FROM THE CSO

THIS IS AN IMPORTANT YEAR FOR VISTRA’S SUSTAINABILITY 

and Equal Opportunity. In addition, relevant financial impli-

reporting, as we are meaningfully enhancing and expanding 

cations, as well as a discussion of risks and opportunities 

our ESG-related disclosures to more appropriately reflect the 

associated with some of these issues, can be found in Part I, 

company’s continued growth and evolution. 

Item 1A in our 2019 Form 10-K. 

Vistra became a public company in October 2016. We pub-

lished our first sustainability report for the calendar year 

2017 in the second quarter of 2018 — and later that quarter 

we closed on our acquisition of Dynegy, more than doubling 

the size of our business and expanding our operations into 

12 states through the addition of Dynegy’s young, efficient, 

and predominantly gas-fueled operations, as well as its retail 

brands. Our sustainability report for the 2018 calendar year 

reflected this significant transformation of our business. 

Then, in 2019, Vistra grew further with the retail acquisitions 

of Crius Energy Trust and Ambit Energy. We also formal-

ized our sustainability governance structure, expanding 

This report follows an annual cycle, covering the reporting 

period from Jan. 1, 2019 through Dec. 31, 2019, while also dis-

cussing some pertinent business updates that have already 

been implemented in 2020, as well as information regarding 

a few of our longer-term strategies.

Later in the year we plan to publish a Climate Report in 

accordance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 

Disclosures (TCFD). As such, please continue to visit Vistra’s 

sustainability website at vistraenergy.com/sustainability, 

which is frequently updated to include the latest news and 

events around the company’s social, economic, and environ-

the responsibility of the Risk Committee of the board of 

mental initiatives.

directors to include oversight of our sustainability program 

and naming a chief sustainability officer. In addition, Vistra 

STAKEHOLDERS 

announced, for the first time, long-term greenhouse gas 

emissions reduction targets. Now in 2020, a key strategic 

We hope you find these enhanced disclosures helpful, as we 

recognize the importance of providing complete and trans-

focus for us will be to enhance our ESG-related disclosures, 

parent information to the many stakeholders who have an 

starting with this 2019 Sustainability Report.  

interest in our ESG-related activities. The disclosures in this 

ABOUT THIS REPORT

I am happy to highlight that this report, for the first time, was 

prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 

(GRI) Standards, Core Option and also includes Sustainability 

Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosures as outlined 

for Electric Utilities and Power Generators. 

Pursuant to the GRI framework, Vistra’s Sustainability Com-

mittee, which is comprised of team leaders from various 

functional groups within the organization, conducted an 

report are informed by interactions and engagement with a 

diverse set of individuals and organizations throughout 2019, 

including investors, other financial community participants, 

employees, recruits, customers, suppliers, local communities, 

consultants, state and federal governments, regulators, and 

non-governmental organizations. Some examples of stake-

holder engagement activities we undertake on an annual ba-

sis include frequent meetings and calls with members of the 

financial community, regulators, and state, local, and federal 

government officials; employee town halls; local community 

“issues assessment” to identify what we believe are the 

town halls; and customer marketing research panels and 

key, material disclosures pertinent to our organization. As a 

quality questionnaires.

reflection of this assessment, you will find in our 2019 Sus-

tainability Report and attached GRI Index a discussion of the 

We strive to make ourselves available to all constituents 

following sustainability disclosures: Economic Performance, 

throughout the year. If you have questions about any of the 

Energy, Water and Effluents, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, 

disclosures in this report or about any of Vistra’s ESG-related 

Environmental Compliance, Employment, Occupational 

initiatives, please do not hesitate to reach out to me at 

Health and Safety, Training and Education, and Diversity  

molly.sorg@vistraenergy.com.

VISTRA ENERGY 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 7

UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS

Vistra’s business activities are in alignment with several of the seventeen United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Specifically, our climate strategy predominately 
supports three of the SDGs: Affordable and Clean Energy, Sustainable Cities and Com-
munities, and Life on Land. Further mapping of Vistra’s business activities to the SDGs 
can found in the GRI Content Index at the end of this report.

7

AFFORDABLE AND
CLEAN ENERGY

11

SUSTAINABLE CITIES
AND COMMUNITIES

15

LIFE
ON LAND

•  Upton 2 Solar Power Plant

•  Moss Landing and Oakland Energy 

Storage Projects in California

•  Largest wind purchaser in Texas

•  Advocates and supports 

competitive energy markets

•  Solar developer and provider 
of solar panels for residential 
customers

•  Power Plant Optimization

•  EV Car Charging stations

•  Supports city efficiency efforts 

•  Renewable retail products offered 
in all retail electricity markets

(City of Dallas)

•  TXU Energy AidSM

•  Employee wellness program

•  45+ years of  

Land Reclamation

•  300,000 plus trees  

provided to Trees Across 
Texas Program

•  TXU Urban Tree Farm and 

Education Center

•  Luminant Environmental 

Research Program

In addition to our participation 

in the CLC and the AFCD, Vistra 

President and CEO Curt Morgan is 

a member of the Business Round-

table, collaborating with CEOs of 

America’s leading companies that 

collectively employ more than 

15 million people and earn more 

than $7 trillion in annual reve-

nues. Vistra was a proud signato-

ry to the Business Roundtable’s 

“Statement on the Purpose of a 

Corporation,” committing to lead 

our company for the benefit of all 

stakeholders — customers, employ-

ees, suppliers, communities, and 

shareholders.

Vistra similarly takes an active role 

in supporting diversity-supplier 

organizations, with members of 

senior leadership serving on the 

boards of directors for the Nation-

al Minority Supplier Development 

Council, the Women’s Business En-

terprise National Council, and the 

ORGANIZATIONS

National Veteran Owned Business Association, among others. 

In addition to our commitment to transparency, Vistra sim-

We are also an active member of the National Gay & Lesbian 

ilarly takes its responsibility to lead in the effort to combat 

Chamber of Commerce and Disability:IN. 

climate change very seriously. In 2019, we joined the Climate 

Leadership Council (CLC) as a founding member, advocating 

for a consistently applied carbon fee and dividend approach 

as the ideal public policy solution to appropriately incentivize 

investments in carbon-free and carbon-reducing technologies 

while mitigating the financial impacts on the economically 

disadvantaged. We further committed to contribute $1 million 

to Americans for Carbon Dividends (AFCD), the advocacy 

arm of the CLC. Vistra believes the CLC’s bipartisan climate 

roadmap, which promotes a national carbon dividend frame-

work, is the right public policy solution to facilitate the coun-

try’s transition to a lower-carbon future while maintaining the 

strength of the American economy. Additional information 

about the CLC and the AFCD can be found at clcouncil.org 

and at afcd.org, respectively. 

In short, we are putting our advocacy efforts directly behind 

organizations that we believe will have a positive impact on 

the environment and our global community.

IN CLOSING

Over the last several years, Vistra has greatly accelerated its 

efforts to reduce its carbon footprint through, among other 

initiatives, power plant retirements and investing billions 

of dollars in renewables, energy storage, emissions control 

equipment, and other energy-efficient technologies. We are 

committed to being a part of the solution to combat climate 

change, while continuing to provide safe, reliable, and af-

fordable power to our customers. If we all do our part, we 

can accelerate the transition to a lower-carbon future while 

maintaining a prosperous global economy. Vistra is proud to 

The CEO of the CLC, Ted Halstead, recently co-authored, with 

be part of the solution.

James Baker, III and George Schultz, an article in Foreign 

Affairs that explains how a well-designed climate policy 

can transform perceived vulnerabilities into major strategic 

opportunities—a concept that closely aligns with how Vistra 

views climate risks and opportunities. The article can be 

Molly Sorg,  

found here.

Chief Sustainability Officer and VP of Investor Relations

8 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

GOVERNANCE

Vistra is led by a team of industry veterans with expertise across 

all areas of the energy and retail businesses, including a board of 

directors with a diverse set of experiences providing oversight and  

governance. While the board has delegated management of the 

company’s day-to-day operations to its executive officers, the 

following board committees provide specific review and approval 

of certain matters:

Board Committees 

AUDIT COMMITTEE

The principal purposes of the Audit Committee are to oversee (i) the quality and integrity 

of Vistra’s financial statements, the financial reporting processes, and financial statement 

audits, (ii) the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence, (iii) the performance 

of the company’s internal audit function and independent auditor, the systems of disclosure 

controls and procedures, and the company’s system of internal controls over financial re-

porting, accounting, legal and regulatory compliance, and ethics. This oversight includes an 

evaluation of the effectiveness of disclosure controls and controls over processes that could 

have a significant impact on the financial statements.

The Audit Committee is also charged with fostering open communications among the inde-

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 9

pendent auditor, financial and senior management, internal 

nuclear decommissioning programs. In addition, the Sustain-

audit, and the board, as well as encouraging continuous 

ability and Risk Committee will serve in an advisory role to 

improvement and fostering adherence to the company’s poli-

management in the development and implementation of the 

cies, procedures, and practices at all levels. 

company’s sustainability policies and practices and in Vistra’s 

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE

approach to external sustainability reporting. This committee 

will further oversee and monitor Vistra’s compliance with its 

The purpose of the Compensation Committee is to discharge 

greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets and progress 

the board’s responsibilities relating to compensation of 

toward achieving those commitments.

directors, the chief executive officer, the company’s executive 

officers (as determined pursuant to U.S. securities laws and 

NUCLEAR OVERSIGHT ADVISORY BOARD

regulations), the direct reports to the chief executive officer, 

Vistra has established a Nuclear Oversight Advisory Board 

and other company leaders. The Compensation Committee 

(NOAB), which oversees and provides reports to the board 

reviews and recommends to the board executive compensa-

on an as-needed basis, but no less than annually, regarding 

tion and other benefit plans, policies, and programs. It also 

various risks and strategic considerations related to its own-

approves individual executive officer compensation that is in-

ership and operation of our Comanche Peak nuclear power 

tended to attract, retain, and appropriately reward employees 

plant. The chair of NOAB is a former chair of the U.S. Nuclear 

in order to motivate their performance in the achievement of 

Regulatory Commission.

the company’s business objectives and align their interests 

with the long-term interests of the company’s stockholders.

NOMINATING AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE

The Nominating and Governance Committee’s purpose is 

to identify individuals qualified to become board members 

(consistent with criteria approved by the board), recommend 

to the board the company’s director candidates for elec-

tion at the annual meeting of stockholders, annually review 

the corporate governance guidelines of the company, and 

oversee the annual performance evaluation of the board and 

its committees. The committee also recommends directors to 

serve on all committees of the board. 

Recent Corporate  
Governance Developments

MAJORITY VOTING

In March 2020, the board approved an amendment to the 

company’s restated bylaws to implement majority voting for 

directors in uncontested elections. Thus, effective begin-

ning with the 2020 annual meeting of stockholders, director 

nominees must receive more votes “for” their election than 

“against” their election to be elected. Previously, director 

nominees running unopposed were elected with any number 

of votes “for” their election regardless of how many “against” 

SUSTAINABILITY AND RISK COMMITTEE 

votes were cast.

In July 2019, Vistra enhanced the governance over the com-

pany’s sustainability policies and practices by expanding 

the responsibility of the former Risk Committee to include 

sustainability oversight. The Risk Committee was renamed 

the Sustainability and Risk Committee, which now oversees 

the company’s assessment of greenhouse gas-related risks, 

including risks related to climate change, in addition to its pri-

or oversight of the company’s risk management process for 

the identification, evaluation, and mitigation of enterprise risk. 

Enterprise risk is management’s assessment and prioritization 

The board also amended its corporate governance guide-

lines to require that any director nominee who does not 

receive more “for” than “against” votes is required to tender 

a resignation to the Nominating and Governance Committee. 

The Nominating and Governance Committee will recommend 

to the board whether to accept or reject any such resigna-

tion within 90 days after certification of the election results. 

In any contested election, plurality voting for directors will 

apply whereby the candidate receiving the most “for” votes 

of the key factors with potential to have an impact on the 

will be elected.

company’s business and functional operations.

DECLASSIFIED BOARD 

The purpose of the Sustainability and Risk Committee is to 

At the most recent annual meeting, the board recommend-

assist the board in discharging its responsibilities with respect 

ed, and the stockholders approved, a change to Vistra’s 

to oversight of management’s process for the identification, 

charter to declassify the board. Prior to the amendment, 

evaluation, and mitigation of enterprise risk, the company’s 

directors were split into three classes and each class served 

risk related to commodity prices, the company’s manage-

for a three-year term. Starting with the 2020 annual meeting 

ment of its insurance programs and investment policies, and 

of stockholders all directors are elected annually for a one-

performance with respect to the company’s pension and 

year term.

10 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

INCREASED DIVERSITY

Following Vistra’s most recent annual meeting of stockhold-

ers, our board is comprised of 10 members, three of whom 

are women and two of whom are minorities. Our two newest 

board members, both business and energy veterans, bring 

extensive operational, policy, and regulatory expertise.

Management Committees

There are three standing committees that comprise the 

primary governance forums for day-to-day management of 

•  The Technology Steering Committee provides 

oversight and approval for technology initiatives 

that will commit resources of the company through 

technology‐funded capital and/or expense projects.

•  The Operations Performance Improvement Steer-

ing Committee provides oversight for power plant 

operations improvements and potential investments 

including the ongoing implementation of initiatives 

and proliferation of best practices through excel-

lence forums.

the company: the Management Committee, Commitments 

The members of the Risk Management Committee include: 

Committee, and Risk Management Committee.

president and CEO, chief financial officer (chair), chief 

The Management Committee consists of the chief executive 

officer and his direct reports, as well as leaders who repre-

sent key business areas and support functions. This bi-weekly 

meeting forum includes discussion and decision-making 

related to general strategy and policy items, operational 

updates, and other items not presented at the other commit-

tees listed below. The Management Committee provides the 

forum for information sharing, prioritization, and cross-busi-

ness and cross-functional coordination. 

We recognize the value of having a diverse team, especial-

ly in our senior leadership ranks, and are proud that our 

Management Committee is comprised of nine women and 14 

men. Further, 50% of the CEO’s direct reports are women.

The Commitments Committee includes, as voting members: 

president and CEO, chief financial officer, general counsel, chief 

operating officer, chief administrative officer, chief commercial 

officer, and the president of retail, and is chaired by the CEO 

and administered by the CFO organization. The committee’s 

standing invitees include all other direct reports to the CEO 

as well as other key functional and operational leaders. The 

committee provides operational oversight of Vistra’s commit-

ment activities, ensuring that prior to committing and de-

ploying company resources in connection with a transaction, 

an appropriate level of analysis and review is performed, and 

appropriate approvals are obtained. Importantly, all material 

commitments of company resources must receive sign-off by 

appropriate businesses and functional units. The committee 

also approves transactions within transaction authority limits 

delegated by the Vistra board of directors.

There are three sub-committees of the Commitments  

Committee that are governed under the Commitments  

Committee Policy: 

•  The Procurement / Third-Party Steering Committee 

operating officer, chief commercial officer, chief risk officer, 

president of retail, treasurer, senior vice president of plan-

ning and analytics, controller, and vice president of regulato-

ry trading and generation. The Risk Management Committee 

provides risk management oversight, monitoring, control, 

and guidance for all risk management activities at Vistra, and 

it approves risk management activities within limits delegat-

ed by the board of directors through the Risk Management 

Policy and Commitments Committee delegation of authority.

Risk Management

Vistra’s governance framework includes a robust enterprise risk 

analysis, through which all functional groups in the company 

provide input on key business, regulatory, market, legal, and 

climate risks, among other potential areas of threat. The risk 

management process is owned by the chief risk officer, who 

meets annually with every functional group in the company to 

review the risk universe for any relevant updates. During the 

annual review process new risks are added, outdated risks are 

removed, and the likelihood and severity of all risks are evaluat-

ed. The output of this process is then reviewed by Vistra’s Risk 

Management Committee and reported to the Sustainability and 

Risk Committee of the board. 

In addition to this comprehensive annual process, the chief 

risk officer reviews the risk universe with functional leads 

on a quarterly basis and on an interim basis as needed to 

address emerging risks to ensure the risk matrix is current 

throughout the year. These quarterly and interim updates are 

also reported to the Sustainability and Risk Committee of the 

board. Management utilizes the output from the risk frame-

work to anticipate emerging risks, integrate risk into business 

planning, and take steps to mitigate the potential impact of 

any identified risks on the operations and performance of 

the business.

provides oversight and approval for commercial 

Vistra applies this established risk management process 

initiatives related to third-party spend.

to its evaluation of current and emerging climate change 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 11

trends and their associated physical, regulatory, and market 

prevent, detect and respond to information security threats, 

risks. Not only does this process identify risks that manage-

Vistra has a dedicated chief information security officer, 

ment actively evaluates and manages, it can also lead to the 

whose team is responsible for leading enterprise-wide infor-

discovery of growth opportunities for the organization. For 

mation security strategy, policy, standards, architecture, and 

example, Vistra is actively evaluating incremental solar and 

processes. The board regularly receives reports on Vistra’s 

energy storage development opportunities as well as addi-

cybersecurity risks and threats, the status of projects to 

tional renewable retail product offerings, which are business 

strengthen the Vistra’s information security systems, assess-

pursuits that fit within Vistra’s corporate strategy and have a 

ments of Vistra’s security program, and the emerging threat 

mitigating impact on the company’s climate change profile.  

landscape. 

Code of Conduct

Vistra’s leadership and employees are committed to exer-

cising the highest level of ethical standards in everything 

Further, the entire Vistra organization is committed to 

ensuring strong information protection across our business 

as it is core to all of our brands, and we monitor and ensure 

compliance with existing legal obligations to maintain our 

we do. Vistra’s Code of Conduct establishes the ethics and 

trusted reputation. Vistra delivers against this responsibil-

compliance standards for employees at all levels across the 

ity each day through people, processes, and technology 

company, including board members. The Code of Conduct 

designed to continuously detect and mitigate cybersecurity 

covers human rights and equal employment among a variety 

risk. This includes employee training for handling sensitive 

of other topics that can be found our website here. In 2020, 

data and regular email phishing campaigns; a comprehensive 

Vistra further enhanced its human rights governance by 

Cyber Incident Response Plan (CIRP) and regular third-par-

adopting a stand-alone Human Rights Policy, which can be 

ty audits; cyber protective measures such as multi-factor 

found online. While the Code of Conduct is specifically writ-

authentication, anti-virus protection, and continuous system 

ten for Vistra employees and board members, the company 

monitoring. Vistra measures its cybersecurity capability 

expects contractors, third-party consultants, interns, and 

levels through various industry metrics such as the National 

others who may be temporarily assigned to perform work or 

Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) maturity score.

services for the company to follow the Code of Conduct in 

connection with their work for Vistra. The Audit Committee 

of the board of directors reviews the Code of Conduct annu-

ally and approves all changes Vistra makes. Vistra employees 

are required to complete a Code of Conduct training on an 

annual basis. Reflecting our top-down compliance culture, 

we had 100% completion in 2019. Vistra has also established 

the Compliance Helpline, a resource available to all em-

ployees to anonymously submit any ethical or compliance 

concerns, including violations of Vistra’s Code of Conduct, 

via phone or online.

Data Privacy and  
Information Security

Vistra and its board of directors recognize the important 

social responsibility to protect our customers’, employees’, 

and partners’ online and offline data. To more effectively 

12 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ENVIRONMENT

Vistra understands the impact of our business on the environment 

and knows we have a social responsibility to combat climate 

change and reduce our carbon footprint, while still providing 

safe and reliable energy to our customers. Vistra’s Environmental 

Principles Policy, which can be found on our website, 

communicates the commitment we have made to improving 

the environment. Nine environmental principles are described in 

the policy and all Vistra employees conduct business and make 

decisions with these environmental principles in mind. 

Environmental stewardship is governed by our core principle that we do business the  

right way — we are committed to continuous improvement of environmental protection 

measures, building on our strict compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Vistra’s 

corporate environmental team assists and guides compliance at each power plant, where 

each permit is reviewed to ensure compliance. Roles and responsibilities are determined on 

a site-by-site basis and all regulatory submittals and due dates are tracked in the company’s 

work order system. 

The corporate environmental team also performs internal audits at sites on a regular basis 

and tracks open items to completion. Permit deviations, spills, or other environmental inci-

dents are tracked in a central reporting system. The environmental team meets with senior 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 13

management monthly to discuss compliance items, risks, and 

environmental planning. Importantly for 2019, Vistra did not 

have any significant fines resulting from notices of violations 

(NOVs), which are preliminary allegations from the United 

States Environmental Protection Agency or a state environ-

mental agency regarding potential noncompliance. Vistra’s 

than 38%, nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions by 49%, and sulfur 
dioxide (SO2) emissions by 74%.

Vistra’s Scope 2 emissions come from two sources—electrici-

ty consumption at Vistra’s power plants and Vistra’s corpo-

rate offices across the nation. Vistra’s power plants directly 

environmental, legal, and regulatory teams coordinate efforts 

generate most of the power they consume, though they do 

to ensure that Vistra is adhering and responding to all federal 

consume some auxiliary power from the grid. Together with 

and state environmental regulations.

Environmental Performance

the power consumed at Vistra’s corporate offices, as defined 

in the GRI Index, Vistra’s Scope 2 emissions totaled approx-

imately 0.249 million metric tons of CO2e in 2019. Vistra 
endeavors to reduce its energy usage through a variety of 

EMISSIONS

As a power producer, Vistra 

is focused on reducing its 

Scope 1 emissions that are a 

byproduct of our electricity 

generation. In 2019 Vistra 

announced Scope 1 CO2 
equivalent (CO2 e) emissions 
reduction targets of 50% 

by 2030 and 80% by 2050, 

each as compared to a 

2010 baseline, with aspira-

tions to achieve net-zero by 

2050 assuming advances in 

technology and supportive 

public policy. From our 2010 

baseline, Vistra has achieved 

a 39% reduction in CO2e 
emissions through year-end 

2019, putting Vistra at a 78% 

achievement level of our 

2030 goal. Importantly, in 

the fourth quarter of 2019, 

Vistra retired four coal plants 

in Illinois, which represented 

7.8 million metric tons of 

CO2e emissions in 2019. As a 
result, in 2020 Vistra expects 

an emission decrease of an 

additional 7%, which would 

result in a 43% reduction of 

CO2e emissions as compared 
to Vistra’s 2010 baseline.

In addition, our efforts have 

also resulted in the reduc-

tion of criteria air pollut-

ants. Since 2010, Vistra has 

decreased carbon dioxide 

(CO2) emissions by more 

14 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Scope 1 CO2e

efforts at its corporate offices which are discussed in the 

39% REDUCTION

“Facilities” section of this report.

GENERATION AND CARBON INTENSITY

Generating electricity is the primary source of Vistra’s air 

emissions. For 2019, Vistra generated 186,428,605 MWh 

of power from the generation over which it has operation-

al control, with nearly 65% of the output generated from 

low- to no-CO2-emitting natural gas, nuclear, and renewable 
assets. Reporting just under 116 million short tons of carbon 

dioxide emissions for 2019 translates to a carbon intensity of 

38% REDUCTION

1,240 pounds per MWh produced. As we transition our fleet 

away from coal generation, invest in additional renewable 

assets, and work toward achieving our emissions reduction 

targets, we expect our carbon intensity to decrease between 

now and 2030 and 2050 consistent with our CO2e emissions 
reduction targets.

WATER

Water is a limited, expensive, and shared resource that is es-

sential to everyday life and Vistra’s plant operations. Produc-

ing electricity utilizes water in several key functions such as 

74% REDUCTION

producing steam, condensing steam, cooling equipment, pol-

lution control equipment, and in some circumstances, boiler 

make-up, potable water, cleaning, and other uses. Therefore, 

water conservation is a primary concern at each of our gen-

erating facilities, especially those in areas considered “high 

stress” or “extremely high stress.” Vistra recognizes the value 

of water resources and is continuously working to refine our 

water management strategies.

Vistra is a key player in helping to manage national water 

49% REDUCTION

resources, providing expertise on several official regional and 

statewide water planning and conservation groups or com-

mittees. Each year, we report our water use and conservation 

activities in our responses to various states’ Water Survey/

Inventory Programs, and we carefully monitor the quality and 

impact of any water we return to the waterways.

Vistra has five generating sites in areas identified as “high 

stress” or “extremely high stress,” though many of our plants 

are geographically situated in an area of ample water supply. 

Across all of our power plants, Vistra practices good stew-

ardship and works to use water efficiently. Where appropri-

ate, we have built large reservoirs to capture water when it 

is plentiful, allowing it to be reused and recycled repeatedly. 

When feasible, we find ways to recycle water and to reuse 

water from one system to another system to reduce our use 

of freshwater. We also reclaim other types of wastewaters for 

our purposes and explore new ways to maximize water re-

sources. Technologies such as the use of air-cooled condens-

ers are also prevalent at our plants where water supply is not 

available. We have continued to invest in low-to-no water 

use generating assets including wind power, solar power, and 

combined-cycle generation. Each of these actions helps to 

reduce the amount of water needed to produce electricity. 

Based on 2019 data, approximately 98% of the water Vistra 

withdrew for its operations was recycled or discharged back 

to the water source.   

COAL ASH BYPRODUCT AND OTHER WASTE

WITHDRAWN

WITHDRAWN 

DISCHARGED

2010

2019

Vistra’s generation fleet recycles more than 60% of ash byprod-

porting segment, ensuring the team remains accountable to 

ucts from its coal fleet. That equates to over 3.2 million tons of 

the operational and financial plan that has been put in place.

coal combustion byproducts beneficially reused in products, in-

cluding recycling of fly ash, bottom ash, and gypsum products. 

Reuse of combustion byproducts, which resulted in nearly $70 

Renewable Resources

million in revenue for Vistra, is our preferred method of disposal 

As Vistra looks forward, we continue to change the complex-

when economically viable. The beneficial use of coal ash also 

ion of our fleet for maximum efficiency and environmental 

reduces greenhouse gases. For example, for each ton of fly 

performance, while making disciplined investments in new 

ash used in place of traditional cement, a reduction of slightly 

technologies.

less than one ton of carbon dioxide is achieved — the equiva-

lent of about two months of emissions from an automobile. As 

required under compliance, our coal combustion residual data 

can be found on Luminant’s website here. 

In June 2018, Vistra commenced operations of the 180-MW 

Upton 2 solar facility — Texas’ largest operating solar facility 

at that time. In conjunction with the solar plant, Vistra devel-

oped and constructed a 10-MW/42-MWh lithium-ion battery 

With the exception of nuclear waste, the amount of hazard-

energy storage system. The battery energy storage system, 

ous waste generated at our power stations is minimal. All 

which went into commercial operations on Dec. 31, 2018, en-

waste generated is properly captured, stored and disposed 

ables Vistra to maximize the amount of power generated at 

of in approved landfills, recycled, or beneficially reused, as 

Upton 2, capturing excess solar energy produced at the site 

appropriate. 

ASSET CLOSURE SEGMENT

to be released in times of high energy demand, which may 

not be concurrent with peak solar output. 

In order to ensure that all of the plants and mines we retire 

Also in June 2018, Vistra announced that the company en-

are transitioned cost effectively and in a manner that is in 

tered into a 20-year resource adequacy contract with Pacific 

compliance with all laws and regulations while taking into 

Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) for the Phase 1 develop-

account the impacts on the local communities, Vistra has 

ment and construction of a 300-MW/1,200-MWh, battery 

a team led by our vice president of asset closure that is 

energy storage project at its Moss Landing Power Plant site 

solely dedicated to the decommissioning and reclamation 

in Moss Landing, California. When the Moss Landing battery 

of these retired plants and mines. This separation of duties 

project comes online in December 2020, it will be the largest 

is designed to ensure the work required to wind down these 

of its kind in the world and will position Vistra as a market 

assets is done properly with focused management attention. 

leader in utility-scale battery development. In April 2020, 

Vistra manages these activities under a separate GAAP re-

Vistra announced the Phase 2 development and construc-

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 15

existing land and infrastructure to enable lower 

cost and faster development of new renewable 

generation assets. In the near term, we see po-

tential for further energy storage development 

in California at our existing sites, we are actively 

evaluating the development of over approxi-

mately 2,000 MW of solar projects in ERCOT, 

and we are supporting the Illinois Coal to Solar 

and Energy Storage Act of 2019, which would 

transition coal plants in Illinois to renewable 

sources of utility-scale solar and energy storage. 

Our 10-year view assumes we will invest approxi-

mately $5 billion of equity in renewables and 

battery storage between now and 2030.  

Vistra continues to evaluate and monitor new 

power facility technologies and we expect to 

balance investment in these new technologies 

with Vistra’s commitment to providing safe, 

efficient, and low-cost power.

Vistra’s Upton 2 solar facility continues to deliver on the company’s strategic plan to strengthen 
and expand its integrated businesses through enhanced retail solar offerings and diversity across 
its generation fleet. It is also direct evidence that competitive generators will invest in batteries in 
Texas when supported by market economics.

tion of a 100-MW/400-MWh, battery energy storage project 

at Moss Landing Power Plant bringing the site to a total of 

Environmental Giving

400-MW/1,600-MWh of battery energy storage.

TREE PLANTINGS AND DONATIONS

Continuing battery development in California, in 2019 Vistra 

entered into a 10-year resource adequacy contract with 

East Bay Community Energy (EBCE) for the development 

In 2019, Vistra donated nearly 500 trees and approximately 

3,300 liners or seedlings through its tree donation program, 

in which the company helps create healthy and sustainable 

communities by partnering with its customer cities, counties, 

and construction of a 20-MW/80-MWh battery energy 

schools, and nonprofits to provide trees for schools, parks, 

storage project at its Oakland Power Plant site in Oakland, 

libraries, and various community facilities. 

California. In April 2020 the project size was increased to 

36.25-MW/145-MWhs.

Since 2002, Vistra’s flagship retail brand, TXU Energy, has 

provided nearly 300,000 trees to communities under the 

The Moss Landing and the Oakland battery projects will 

company’s Trees Across Texas program and through its 

help increase local electric reliability by turning on quickly 

longstanding partnership with the Texas Trees Foundation. 

when incremental power supply is needed (particularly when 

Through these tree donations, TXU Energy has helped gen-

California’s large solar generation fleet powers down in the 

erate environmental savings and health benefits for munic-

evening), and it will assist in curtailing fossil-fueled peaking 

ipalities and residents valued at approximately $37 million 

power plants, lessening California’s reliance on fossil-fueled 

annually during the life of the trees. 

electric generation and associated water requirements.

For over 15 years, TXU Energy has sponsored the TXU En-

In addition, Vistra, via its subsidiary Luminant, is a large 

ergy Urban Tree Farm and Education Center, which assists 

purchaser of wind-generated electricity to support our retail 

the Texas Trees Foundation (TTF) in their mission to create 

products. In 2019, Vistra had over 784 MW of wind generated 

healthy and sustainable communities. The center serves as 

power under power purchase agreements (PPAs) and pur-

a resource for urban forestry operations, volunteer recruit-

chased 6,516,000 wind and solar renewable energy credits 

ment, and carbon sink and urban heat island mitigation for 

(RECs) to meet our retail customer demand.

North Dallas. The nearly 10-acre tree farm at Richland Col-

lege features state-of-the-art production and irrigation tech-

Over the next 10 years, Vistra will continue to seek out devel-

nology with the capacity to produce nearly 1,000 15-gallon 

opment projects and technologies related to renewables and 

and 30-gallon trees per planting season. Trees are offered to 

energy storage. We have development opportunities at our 

the public through TTF programs like NeighborWoods, Tree 

current conventional generation sites, where we can utilize 

North Texas, the Cool Schools program, and various com-

16 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Whooping Cranes at Kosse Mines

Over the years, Luminant has received numerous awards and national 

recognition for its land reclamation activities. Perhaps the best 

testament of success, however, is the nature and wildlife that thrives on 

the property once surface mining is complete and the land is restored.

In June 2019, Texas Parks & Wildlife (TPWD) notified Luminant that 

five juvenile whooping cranes that the agency was tracking via GPS 

transmitters were in the area of the company’s Kosse mine, in the far south 

side of Limestone County, Texas. The whooping cranes are being tracked 

as part of what is known as the Louisiana Experimental Population, made 

up of birds that were raised in captivity and released into the wild as 

part of a species recovery program. As such, these birds do not migrate 

north for the summer as do other whooping cranes but rather spend their 

summers in the Louisiana/Texas region. The mine site took immediate steps 

to protect the unexpected guests, including posting notice for care and 

protection, since awareness helps prevent disturbance. 

The whooping cranes were seen in the photos (right) foraging in land 

reclaimed 8-10 years prior — land that is fairly isolated now, with plenty 

of water and grassland. Based on their past tracked movements, TPWD 

did not expect the birds to remain in the area for more than a week or 

two. These birds stayed for about six months.

Whooping cranes, once on the brink of extinction and currently 

protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, are not the only special 

visitors to Luminant property. Bald eagle sightings have increased at 

several mines, with nesting populations returning annually to the Martin 

Lake Liberty Mine, and interior least terns, a federally listed endangered 

species, have annually used our reclaimed sites for their nesting at 

Turlington and Kosse Mines.

munity tree plantings and seedling adoption events. On the 

Over the last 45 years, Luminant has planted more than 42 

third Saturday of each month (except during the hot months 

million native trees as part of its reclamation program, in-

of June, July, and August), TTF coordinates a “Tree Tender” 

cluding over 1.1 million in 2019. More than 30,700 acres of the 

volunteer day. Through this event, volunteers log thousands 

of hours each year mulching, pruning, weeding, cleaning up 

trash, and installing special projects. Year after year, the TXU 

Energy Urban Tree Farm and Education Center continues to 

provide a place for urban forestry education and sharing the 

importance of trees in our communities.  

LAND RECLAMATION

Since mining began more than 49 years ago, Luminant has 

reclaimed more than 85,000 acres for use as pastures, for-

company’s reforested land is certified by the American Tree 

Farm System as sustainably managed woodlands. The Feder-

al Office of Surface Mining has indicated that Luminant plants 

more trees annually than any mining company in the U.S.

We have created or enhanced more than 6,800 acres of 

wetlands, ponds, and stream channels on our restored lands, 

dramatically increasing water resources for the benefit of 

wildlife and livestock. Luminant has received over 90 awards 

for reclamation excellence, including an unprecedented five 

Director’s Awards, the highest honor from the U.S. Depart-

ests, wildlife habitat, and water resources, and the company 

ment of the Interior’s Office of Surface Mining. In 2017 Lumi-

has already secured reclamation bond liability releases on 

nant was recognized by the Stephen F. Austin State Univer-

over 40,000 acres, demonstrating that it meets or exceeds 

sity Board of Regents for nearly 50 years of commitment to 

pre-mine standards. 

environmental education.

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 17

EMPLOYEES

Vistra’s no. 1 asset is our people — a talented, dedicated, and 

diverse group of men and women who work together as One 

Team to achieve success — and the company’s top priority is their 

safety. Vistra invests in our people, offering numerous training 

and development opportunities, generous benefits and wellness 

offerings, and engaging employee programs.

SAFETY

In 2019, Vistra’s safety team, generation leaders, and corpo-

rate communications presented a new name, logo, and mot-

to for the company’s mindset around safety: Best Defense. 

The name was derived from guidance by national workplace 

safety expert Dr. Todd Conklin, who said, “Safety is not the 

absence of events. Safety is the presence of defenses.”

In her note to plant managers, Vice President of  

Environmental, Health, and Safety Cynthia Vodopivec wrote, 

“While we recognize that accidents can happen, it doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t put forth 

our best effort — every day — to prevent them. And if they do occur, we want our teams to learn 

18 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

from events and add defenses so that we can ‘fail safely,’ and 

courses were completed by our employees through both 

minimize the number of Serious Injuries and Fatalities (SIFs) 

computer-based and instructor-led sessions.

and Potential Serious Injuries and Fatalities (PSIFs).

SAFETY OF OUR CONTRACTORS AND VENDORS

“The motto,” she added, “is as much a part of the mes-

In 2019, Vistra emphasized the importance of working with 

sage — ‘Everyone wins. No one gets hurt.’ — and the three stars 

safe business partners who share our safety culture. All ven-

on the logo are significant as well. They stand for the three 

dors and contractors who work at our plants are required 

key components of our safety approach: People (Human 

to meet certain safety standards and managed through a 

Performance Initiatives), Process (Behavior Based Safety pro-

third-party supplier, ISNetworld. All contractors must meet 

grams), and Programs (OSHA Voluntary Protection Program).”

our minimum standards before being allowed to work at 

Vistra’s safety culture revolves around people and human 

performance. The company places a high importance on 

continuous improvement, along with a keen focus on nu-

our facilities. In addition, Vistra works closely with our 

suppliers and contractors to ensure our safety practices are 

upheld. Approximately 2,100 contractors are connected to 

us in the ISNetworld system and meet our minimum safety 

merous learning and error-prevention tools.

requirements.

To facilitate a learning environment, the operating plants 

share their investigations and learnings of all safety events 

with all operations employees on weekly calls. The infor-

mation is presented by front-line employees and supported 

by management. The lessons from each event are shared 

across the fleet to prevent similar incidents at other loca-

tions. In 2019, the team reviewed 81 events where injuries 

occurred or had the potential to occur. 

All personnel at Vistra locations are encouraged to be 

involved in the safety process. Managers are required to 

participate in safety engagements with work staff to enable 

constant communication and interaction. In 2019, leaders 

documented more than 72,000 engagements in the field, 

which equates to more than six per leader per month.

SAFETY STATISTICS

Our total recordable injury rate (TRIR) for 2019 was 1.05, 

which compares to the approximate midpoint of our peers. 

Vistra’s focus on reducing the severity of injuries for both 

our employees and contractors who work with us has 

shown positive results. For 2019, the majority of the injuries 

were non-serious in nature, with one qualifying as a serious 

injury or fatality (SIF) event. In comparison to our peers, 

VOLUNTARY PROTECTION PROGRAM

The Vistra generation fleet has a total of 13 plants that have 

been awarded the Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star 

designation by the Occupational Safety and Health Admin-

istration (OSHA) for superior demonstration of effective 

safety and health management systems and for maintain-

ing injury and illness rates below the national averages for 

our industry. VPP Star status is the highest designation of 

OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Programs. The achievement 

recognizes employers and workers who have implemented 

effective safety and health management systems and main-

tain injury and illness rates below national Bureau of Labor 

Statistics averages for their respective industries. These 

sites are self-sufficient in their ability to control workplace 

hazards and are reevaluated every three to five years.

Diversity

Vistra recognizes the value of having a diverse workforce. 

Diversity at Vistra includes all the ways we differ — such as 

age, gender, ethnicity, and physical appearance, as well as 

underlying differences such as thoughts, styles, religions, 

nationality, education, and numerous other traits.

our SIF rate is in the top quartile. Near-miss reporting at our 

Creating and maintaining an environment where differences 

sites, where no injuries have occurred, has increased since 

last year, allowing our teams to learn from incidents and to 

proactively put best defenses in place.

SAFETY TRAINING

All Vistra employees are covered by our safety program. 

Office employees are assigned safety topics and training 

as part of our online learning management system. Power 

are valued and respected enhances the company’s ability 

to recruit and retain the best talent in the marketplace. As 

Vistra continues to promote and maintain an environment 

that fosters creativity, productivity, and mutual respect, the 

company becomes the employer of choice by recogniz-

ing and using the value that each individual brings to the 

workplace.

plant employees are assigned training based on job func-

Vistra’s diversity is evolving and management is leading 

tion and training is tracked in our central learning manage-

by example. With regards to gender diversity, women hold 

ment system. For 2019, more than 48,000 safety training 

29% of the company’s senior management positions, the 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 19

company’s management committee consists of 14 men and 9 

Many other training and development programs exist to 

women, 50% of the CEOs direct reports are women, and 30% 

help grow and develop employees at every level, through 

of the board of directors are women. You can refer to Vistra’s 

programs such as Situational Leadership, Leadership Agil-

diversity statistics for ethnicity and gender in the GRI index at 

ity, Behavior-Based Safety, and a variety of online courses 

the end of this report. 

Vistra advances diversity through its recruiting efforts, by 

posting all available jobs to select diversity and military job 

sites, and through grass roots efforts. Our employees have 

also initiated affinity groups and events that continue to 

available on Vistra’s online learning platform and through the 

company’s learning management system. Recorded webi-

nars and presentations provide an opportunity for self-paced 

development and employee-specific skill training. Thousands 

of web-based targeted courses are available to all employees, 

and in 2019 employees collectively spent 700 hours com-

thrive. Most notable, a Black History Month luncheon orga-

pleting 695 courses. 

nized by our employees has become one of the highlights of 

the year. Vistra also participates in several local and national 

In addition, Vistra supports employees who have continuing 

organizations that provide opportunities for employees to live 

education requirements for their various professional licenses, 

diversity. These organizations are referenced in the “Supplier 

including accounting, legal, and nuclear. Across these teams, 

Diversity” section of this report. 

Vistra annually supports more than 125 employees completing 

Training And Development

over 14,500 hours of professional training.  

EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

Vistra believes that the development of employees at all 

Vistra offers an Educational Assistance Program, available to 

levels is critical to the current and future success of the 

all employees who have completed a minimum of 90 days of 

company. Specifically, in 2019, the company’s Management 

active, continuous service, meet performance requirements, 

Committee approved the launch of key programs to develop 

and receive manager approval. Those enrolled in the program 

leaders at all levels of the organization.

will be reimbursed up to $10,000 annually upon completion of 

approved courses per the policy. In 2019, 100 employees par-

The Essentials in Leadership program targets first-time 

ticipated in the program for a total of $535,793 reimbursed.

leaders of people and/or front-line leaders of people, a group 

that primarily consists of supervisors and managers. The 

PERFORMANCE REVIEW PROGRAM 

program entails one full-day session a month, in person, for 

As part of Vistra’s performance review program, all employees 

five months, with group exercises and discussions in between. 

receive a performance review, except anyone in a collective 

The participants’ managers attend the first and last sessions 

bargaining unit, contractors, and temporary employees. The 

and are committed to their employees’ successes. Different 

calendar of the performance review process is as follows: 

senior leaders participate in each session as well, either to 

provide an overview of a business segment or to teach parts 

of the program. Key components of the program include 

•  March-June: Objective setting, as submitted by 

the employee or assigned by their manager. These 

objectives should align with the annual corporate 

situational leadership, business acumen, identification of 

objectives, which include climate change initiatives.

communication styles, and inclusive communication practic-

es. Feedback on the program rates extremely high, and one 

•  June-August: Mid-year check-ins (quick perfor-

of the greatest outcomes is the fact that front-line leaders 

from different parts of the business develop relationships that 

carry on after the program is complete.

mance discussion and documentation).

•  September-October: 9-box succession planning 

work and sessions.

For all employees at the director level and above, the Man-

agement Committee holds monthly leader meetings. These 

meetings consist of around 40 people each month, and all 

directors and above complete one session during a 12-month 

timeframe. The curriculum is based on learning the mechan-

ics of the business, developing cross-functional relationships, 

and spending time getting to know the senior leadership of 

•  November: Employee self-assessments.

•  December: Final performance ratings due.

•  February-March: Performance review conversations, 

discuss potential merit/bonus awards.

the company. This program is very well-received. The CEO 

OPEN FEEDBACK CULTURE

and his direct reports spend the entire day at each of these 

Every year, all employees across the organization are  

sessions with the participants.

required to take online training for Vistra’s Code of  

20 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Conduct. The company has also developed and requires 

through mentoring and education, and empower themselves 

training on Civil Treatment across the organization. Vistra 

to succeed.

promotes and accommodates an “open door” policy, as well 

as “skip-level” access to leadership. This policy is facilitat-

ed by an open office environment, where employees may 

easily access leadership across the organization. Vistra also 

holds quarterly town halls, held at our headquarters and 

livestreamed across the company. Employees are invited to 

submit questions or suggest topics anonymously prior to 

each town hall.

Vistra promotes a “human performance improvement” 

culture, which focuses on learning from open sharing of mis-

takes as opposed to placing blame, and we strictly enforce 

confidentiality and the “no retaliation” provisions of our 

Code of Conduct. Vistra has also established The Compli-

ance Helpline, a resource available to all employees to sub-

mit any ethical or compliance concerns, including violations 

of Vistra’s Code of Conduct, via phone or online.

TALENT PIPELINE

Vistra conducts a robust 9-Box process annually for di-

rectors and above, where more than 470 employees are 

assessed for promotability and performance. As part of this 

process, detailed succession planning is performed, identify-

ing employees from across the organization who could de-

velop into other roles within a five-year period. Subsequent 

development plans are created and play a critical role in the 

development of a diverse pipeline of leaders.

EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS

PARENTS AT WORK (PAW). PAW is dedicated to provid-

ing a supportive, nurturing network for 

expecting, new, and veteran PAWs to 

connect and share advice on balancing 

the joys and challenges of being a work-

ing parent. PAW also hosts seminars and other events for 

parents and/or their families. 

TXU GREEN TEAM. The Green Team promotes environmen-

tal stewardship and sustainable practices 

that reduce our impact on the planet, 

create value for the business and the 

community, and continue to make TXU 

Energy a great place to work.

TOASTMASTERS. The Vistra chapter of the world-leader  

in communication and leadership devel-

opment provides a safe, fun environment 

for people at all levels of the organization 

to improve their presentation and leader-

ship abilities.

Employee Benefits

Maintaining attractive benefits and pay are important for 

recruiting and retaining talent. Vistra performs annual salary 

reviews with a focus on gender equity by employee cate-

gory level within significant locations of operations. Vistra 

is committed to maintaining an equitable compensation 

Vistra has a variety of employee-initiated and -led programs 

structure.

for individuals to participate in, based on demographics, 

interests, and purpose. These affinity groups include:

Full-time Vistra employees and part-time Vistra employees 

WOMEN’S INFORMATION NETWORK (WIN). WIN inspires 

working a minimum of 20 hours per week are provided the 

opportunity to enroll in medical, prescription drug (included 

the women of Vistra to 

develop personally and 

professionally, reach their 

fullest leadership potential, 

in medical), dental, vision, life insurance, accidental death & 

dismemberment, and long-term disability coverage. Regu-

lar, full-time employees are eligible for short-term disability 

benefits, and all employees are eligible for the employee 

and be champions within the community. WIN aspires to 

assistance program, parental leave, maternity leave, and the 

attract, retain, and advance women at Vistra through profes-

401(k) plan.

sional and personal development, with guest speakers and 

special events.

Vistra updated its maternity leave policy in 2019 and created 

a new parental leave policy for fathers, non-birth parents, 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROFESSIONAL ENRICHMENT AND 

and adoptive or foster parents. Birth mothers are entitled to 

NETWORKING (OPEN). OPEN participants have the oppor-

12 weeks of paid maternity leave, an increase from 6 weeks, 

tunity to network with other 

while the new parental leave policy provides two paid weeks 

professionals and leaders 

to fathers or non-birth parents. All new employees are auto-

across the organization, 

matically enrolled into Vistra’s 401(k) plan at 3% of base pay 

enhance their professional 

contribution and Vistra will match employees contributions 

advancement potential 

up to 6%. While director level employees and above receive 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 21

long-term compensation in the form of equity grants with 

a three-year vesting, employees below director level are 

LOCATION

ENERGY STAR

LEED

BOMA 360*

eligible for Vistra’s deferred profit sharing plan, in which an 

annual award based on a percentage of the employee’s base 

Energy Plaza, 
Dallas, TX

2008-19

2010 – LEED 
Gold for Existing 
Buildings 

2012-2019

salary is determined each year based on company perfor-

mance, and the award is earned and paid to the employee at 

the conclusion of a three-year retention period.

Wellness

Vistra believes a healthy workforce leads to greater well-being 

at work and at home. Our employee-led wellness team engag-

es our people to get active and support causes that promote 

healthy living. Our headquarters includes an 1,800-square-foot 

fitness center that offers cardio equipment, a selection of 

free weights, and exercise mats, as well as men’s and wom-

Mesquite Data Center, 
Mesquite, TX

2011-19

2013 – LEED  
Silver for Exist-
ing Buildings

2015-2019

Carpenter Freeway 
Building, 
Irving, TX

2011-19

2015-2019

Sierra  
(headquarters) 
Irving, TX

2009-19

2009 – LEED 
for Commercial 
Interiors

2015-2019

312 Walnut St.  
Cincinnati, OH

2011-19

2017 – LEED 
Gold for Existing 
Buildings

2016 – LEED 
Gold for Existing 
Buildings

en’s locker rooms and showers, and our Carpenter Freeway 

Building includes a 1,300-square-foot fitness center, as well. 

Liberty Place 
Washington D.C.

2012-19

With support from the company, the wellness team covers the 

registration costs for employees to participate in more than a 

dozen running events each year. Additionally, the team hosts 

quarterly blood drives and recruits participants for our cycling 

and soccer teams. In 2019, our people contributed more than 

*The Building Owners and Managers Association’s BOMA 360 Performance Program takes a holis-
tic approach to evaluating building operations and management, and benchmarks a building’s 
performance against industry standards, recognizing commercial properties that demonstrate 
best practices. The award takes into consideration a property’s sustainability initiatives, safety/
security/risk management, training and educations of building personnel, energy management, 
tenant relations, and community involvement. 

1,500 hours to wellness initiatives and activities, including 

DESKSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAMS

walking, running, and cycling events. 

Recycling is an easy sustainable practice that Vistra encour-

In addition to fitness activities, Vistra offers multiple pro-

grams to help employees better their health. Examples 

include diabetes management programs, weight-loss pro-

grams, and tobacco cessation programs. These programs are 

provided free of charge and provide support and equipment 

for employees to manage their health issues effectively.

Facilities

ages its employees to partake in. Employees are provided 

with deskside recycle containers for comingled recyclables 

including paper, plastic, glass, and aluminum. In 2019, we 

recycled 14 tons of waste through our desk-side recycling 

program and shredded nearly 322 tons of paper collected in 

secured bins. We also have annual collections for consumer 

goods such as batteries and electronics for employees to 

dispose of these items properly. In 2019, we collected 19,601 

pounds of electronics at our Sierra, Energy Plaza, and Car-

penter Freeway Building locations.

Vistra’s corporate headquarters, located in Irving, Texas, has 

received the EPA’s prestigious Energy Star recognition for 

In addition to its robust deskside recycling program, Vistra’s 

the past decade, and a handful of our regional offices have 

facilities team conducted a print optimization campaign in 

received the honor as well (see above right). As a steward of 

2019 that led to a reduction of print devices and electricity 

environmental conservation efforts, Vistra has implemented 

usage, demonstrating not only cost savings but environ-

procedures at its headquarters to reduce power consump-

mental stewardship. Vistra has also implemented a green 

tion when power is at its peak demand in the Texas summer. 

cleaning program for a healthier workforce and reduced 

If called upon for demand response purposes by ERCOT, our 

environmental footprint. 

headquarters can contribute 700 kW back to the grid when 

supply is limited. 

VEHICLE FLEET

The electrification and use of alternative fuels for vehicles 

In addition, in our Dallas-area corporate facilities, Vistra 

is an evolving development worldwide. Within Vistra’s own 

utilizes building automation systems to optimize start/stop 

fleet of vehicles, we look for opportunities to reduce our 

times of HVAC equipment to reduce energy consumption 

number of vehicles, transition to electrification, and manage 

while maintaining thermal comfort requirements. LED lights 

fuel consumption. Electric vehicle charging stations are  

and occupancy sensors are used in various areas of the 

available at Vistra’s headquarters and other locations for 

buildings and parking garages. 

employees, contractors, and visitors to use. 

22 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CONTENTS
SUPPLY CHAIN

Vistra has a very robust, centralized, strategic supply chain 

organization. We engage suppliers around the world to support 

our power generation business and our corporate shared services. 

In 2019, we spent over $2 billion dollars with approximately 5,000 

suppliers. This includes everything from manufacturers of power 

generation equipment (such as solar panels, utility-grade batteries, 

generators, and turbines) to power plant maintenance, call center 

and sales personnel, in addition to ongoing corporate expense 

business products and services.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain made extra efforts to ensure the conti-

nuity of our supply base, including diverse and small businesses, through proactive support 

and creative sourcing of personal protective equipment (PPE) and sanitizing products to 

ensure the safety and stability of both the Vistra and contractor workforce. In addition, Vistra 

supported our communities by donating surplus PPE to hospitals where we operate.

Our suppliers reflect our values and agree to our code of ethics outlined in our annual ethics 

letter with every purchase order and contractual agreement. The company is currently con-

ducting an economic impact study of the 2019 Vistra supply chain. This study will provide 

specific data as to where Vistra is directly and indirectly impacting economies by state. 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 23

The results will be presented by state based on size and diver-

•  The Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 

sity status of suppliers as well as categories of spend.  

(www.WBENC.org). 

In addition, we are in the early stages of developing a Supply 

Chain Sustainability Policy, which could include requiring our 

suppliers to have their own environmental and sustainability 

policy that we would monitor and track.

SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY

We have a strong commitment to diversity and inclusion 

across the company, from our own supply chain and work-

force to the supply chain and workforce compositions of 

•  The National Veteran Owned Business Association 

(www.NaVOBA.org).

•  The Dallas/Fort Worth Minority Business Develop-

ment Council (www.DFWMSDC.com).

•  The Women’s Business Council Southwest  

(wbcsouthwest.org/).

our prime suppliers through our multi-tier efforts. We strive 

We are also active members of the National Gay & Lesbian 

to reflect our customer base and the communities in which 

we live, work, and serve, consistent with the company’s core 

principle of caring about stakeholders, a group that includes 

Chamber of Commerce (www.NGLCC.org) and Disability:IN 

(www.DISABILITYIN.org). 

our suppliers.

Among Vistra’s Supply Chain Diversity highlights in 2019: 

In 2019, we achieved 14.6% spend with Small Business Enterpris-

•  Vistra was honored with the Top 

es and 7.8% spend with Diverse Business Enterprises with third- 

Corporation Award from the Women’s 

party certification. These small and diverse suppliers, as well as 

Business Enterprise National Council 

channel partners, drive costs out of our business, bring innova-

(WBENC) for the utilization and devel-

tion, and create market penetration. By growing and developing 

opment of women’s business enterprises.

these small and diverse firms — including businesses certified as 

being 51% or more owned, controlled, and operated by ethnic 

minorities, women, veterans, LGBT, and disabled individuals,  

we are investing in our own business success. 

The Vistra Supply Chain Diversity Initiative is led from the 

top with CEO Curt Morgan serving as the chair of the Supply 

Chain Diversity Advisory Council, which is comprised of all his 

direct reports. The council meets annually to drive the strate-

gic direction and senior leadership engagement. Vistra’s vice 

president of supply chain and his leadership team serve as the 

supply chain diversity working group, which meets monthly to 

evaluate performance and drive continuous improvement.

Currently, Vistra has members of its senior leadership team 

serving on the boards of directors for:

•  Vistra was selected as a “Best Corpora-

tion for Veteran Business Enterprise” by 

the National Veteran Owned Business 

Association (NaVOBA).

•  Vistra was recognized by the Dallas Fort 

Worth Minority Supplier Development 

Council (DFWMSDC) as a “Buy Those 

That Buy Us”™ Corporation, recognizing 

best practices that have achieved real 

results utilizing certified Minority Business Enterprises 

and encourages others to include these best practices 

in their supplier diversity programs. 

•  Vistra was one of three finalists for the National Mi-

nority Supplier Development Council Corporation of 

•  The National Minority Supplier Development  

the Year, recognized for excellence in the utilization 

Council (www.NMSDC.org).

and development of Minority Business Enterprises.

24 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CONTENTS
CUSTOMERS

With the acquisition of two retailers, Ambit Energy and Crius Energy 

Trust, and the launch of two new brands in the northeast, Better Buy 

Energy and Brighten Energy, Vistra’s retail presence grew to 19 states 

and the District of Columbia in 2019 and in markets in Canada and 

Japan, as well. Through our 12 individual retail brands and various 

marketing channels, we balance the needs and preferences of our 

customers through a vast portfolio of products and services, including 

green energy and conservation-focused products.

TXU ENERGY RENEWABLE PRODUCTS 

In Texas, Vistra’s flagship retail brand TXU En-

ergy has been a leader in offering its residential 

customers renewable products. These products 

include:

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS & SOLAR DAYSSM.  

 A first-of-its kind plan, Free Nights & Solar Days 

offers residential customers 100 percent renew-

able energy (100 percent wind power at night 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 25

and 100 percent solar during the day). As with the initial Free 

Nights product, this offer capitalizes on low-cost wind-gen-

erated energy in Texas. As of 2018, twice as many Texans are 

enrolled on TXU Energy solar plans than own rooftop solar 

panels in the competitive Texas market.

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS®.  TXU Energy was the first 

retail electric provider in the state to offer a time-of-use plan 

when it rolled out TXU 

Energy Free Nights in 

2012, giving custom-

ers a chance to save 

energy charges by 

shifting energy-inten-

sive activities to cer-

tain hours. The com-

pany later enhanced 

the product offering 

to include weekends or other designated times, and it is TXU 

Energy’s highest-rated plan. The product allows Vistra to 

capitalize on low-cost wind-generated energy in Texas, and, 

on average, Free Nights customers get nearly 40 percent of 

their electricity for free. 

TXU ENERGY TEXAS CHOICESM. One of our most popular 

plans, Texas Choice offers 25 percent renewable energy, 

which is over four times the state’s regulatory requirements. 

Residential customers also earn 3 percent cash-back loyalty 

rewards on their annual electricity spend.

TXU SOLAR CLUB.  This first-

of-its-kind, membership-style 

plan provides residential 

customers clean energy 

purchased from Texas solar 

farms. The shared solar offer 

gives customers benefits 

similar to a rooftop solar array without the cost of installing 

a system.

TXU SOLAR FROM SUNPOWER. TXU Energy has partnered 

with SunPower to offer the market’s highest-efficiency roof-

top solar panels. Residential customers can take advantage 

of incentives like federal tax credits or rebates through 

transmission and distribution utilities (TDUs) for installing 

SunPower’s high-performance solar arrays, and they can earn 

bill credits when their system produces more energy than 

their home uses. 

TXU ENERGY GREENUPSM . 

We offer our residential and 

small commercial customers 

an opportunity to support 

clean energy by making any 

of our feature-rich pricing 

plans “green.” With GreenUp, 

we buy power and renewable 

energy credits from Texas wind power equal to a customer’s 

total electricity usage, helping increase how much clean 

energy is produced in Texas. 

TXU ENERGY PURE  

SOLARSM. New in 2020, our 

residential customers can 

support clean solar energy 

with Pure Solar without 

installing solar panels. We 

purchase all the power from 

Texas solar farms equal to 

the customer’s total electric-

ity usage. 

TXU ITHERMOSTATTM. TXU 

Energy introduced the first 

two-way, Internet-enabled 

thermostat in Texas’ com-

petitive electricity market 

in 2009. The WiFi-enabled 

thermostat allows customers 

to set a schedule from their 

smartphone or the thermo-

stat and remotely adjust set-

tings with the tap of a button.

MYENERGY DASHBOARD. 

TXU Energy believes that 

helping customers better 

understand how and when 

they use electricity improves 

their overall experience and 

saves them money. The TXU Energy MyEnergy Dashboard is 

a free tool that allows residential and business customers to 

examine their electricity usage to reduce energy consump-

tion and, ultimately, lower their electric bills. It also provides 

a forecast of what their usage and cost could be at the end 

of the month, based on current usage patterns, giving them 

valuable insights that can lead to behavioral changes.

TXU ENERGY RENEWABLE BUYBACKSM.  This plan pays 

TXU REDUCTION REWARDS . TXU Reduction Rewards en-

customers for their surplus power generated by renewable 

ables us to support the market and lower business customer’s 

energy equipment, like solar panels or wind turbines. 

energy costs during times of high demand. When we identify 

26 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Cinemark, a movie theater chain and TXU Energy 

customer in Texas, received Greenback rebates for a LED 

retrofit of one of their theater parking lots. The partnership 

between TXU Energy and Cinemark not only allowed Cinemark to 

reduce power consumption in their parking lot by 70%, but also made  

their parking lot safer and brighter for their customers.

periods where the market and customers could benefit from 

and develop new products and services to meet our custom-

lower demand, we notify participating large business custom-

er’s needs for affordable, reliable, and renewable electricity. 

ers. If they choose to reduce use, they get paid for doing so. 

Though sometimes affordable electricity is not obtainable for 

OTHER RENEWABLE OR SOCIAL-MINDED PRODUCTS

customers who may be experiencing financial distress due to 

crisis events. Vistra Retail is quick to implement programs in 

4CHANGE ENERGY. 4Change Energy in Texas was founded 

crisis situations including COVID-19, extreme weather events, 

on the idea that electricity should be affordable and contrib-

ute to where its customers live. 4Change contributes 4% of 

its profits to the following Texas charities: 

•  American Cancer Society

•  American Red Cross

•  Feeding Texas

•  Heroes for Children

BRIGHTEN ENERGY. Brighten Energy is a new brand 

launched in Illinois, Ohio, and Pennsylvania that supplies 

renewable energy products to socially conscious consumers 

looking for an affordable way to make a difference.

LARGE BUSINESS CUSTOMERS

Vistra Retail actively partners with our large business cus-

tomers to help them achieve their sustainability goals. With a 

diverse offer set, Vistra Retail develops customized solutions 

that utilize wind PPAs, utility scale solar generation, and  

and the early 2019 federal government shutdown. The assis-

tance programs help impacted customers by waiving fees, 

extending payment dates, or creating deferred payment ar-

rangements. In addition, TXU Energy’s established assistance 

program, TXU Energy AidSM, uses donations from customers, 

employees, and other Texans for bill-payment assistance year-

round. You can read more about TXU Energy AidSM and our 

other crisis relief efforts in the ‘Communities’ section. 

CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 

Based on learnings from more than 15 years of customer ex-

perience measurement for Vistra’s flagship brand, TXU Energy, 

Vistra Retail has established industry-leading methodologies 

and results-driven approaches that drive value to the bottom 

line. Through a robust set of ongoing surveys and listening 

posts across their portfolio of brands, insights are leveraged 

to optimize experiences and innovate around customer needs, 

other innovative structures for our business customer base. 

driving dozens of first-to-market product and service launches. 

Additionally, Vistra Retail offers the Greenback program, a 

self-funded rebate program that helps customers fund their 

energy efficiency projects. We have awarded approximately 

$2 million in Greenbacks each year to our customers to help 

them install LED lights, convert to solar energy, upgrade 

their HVAC or make other improvements. Over the life of 

our program, these investments have helped customers 

permanently reduce their consumption, for an average 

annual savings of 39,200,000 kWhs. 

CUSTOMER BILL ASSISTANCE 

Customer feedback is used to pursue a two-pronged approach 

to customer retention. First, near real-time feedback is lever-

aged by a variety of customer advocacy channels, including 

live-agent interactions, offline case management and an Office 

of the President team, that support our customers through all 

phases of their journey. Second, underlying insights are used 

to redesign experiences that mitigate customer losses. Vistra’s 

customer experience metrics have proven to be highly predic-

tive of future customer behavior, allowing us to quantify the 

impact of our efforts — efforts which have earned TXU Energy 

a 5-star customer service rating with the Public Utility Com-

With a collective societal focus on climate change and the 

mission of Texas, an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau, 

transition to renewables, Vistra Retail will continue to evaluate 

and industry-leading customer loyalty ratings.

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 27

COMMUNITIES

Commitment to our communities is one of our four core principles. 

Vistra and our subsidiary companies are committed to strengthening 

the communities where we do business, where we have customers, 

where our valued employees live, and where our office, plants, and 

mines call home.

Key Focus Areas for community 

involvement are:

•  Education

•  Community Welfare

•  Environment/Sustainability

•  Employee Involvement

•  Economic Development 

Vistra’s community affairs team 

leverages various company pro-

grams to promote sales efforts, 

serve as a liaison with key opinion leaders, assist with various community issues, and address 

critical community needs. The team also helps manage relationships with local business 

leaders and elected officials in Luminant’s plant and mine communities.

28 — VISTRA ENERGY 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Community Initiatives  
and Campaigns

Vistra, Luminant, TXU Energy, and other Vistra Retail brands 

have a legacy of giving back to the communities. Here are 

several programs and their 2019 highlights: 

Program has provided graduate students over $5 million 

in fellowships for the completion and publication of 110 

independent post-graduate studies related to the company’s 

environmental footprint and provided significant economic 

and environmental benefit to Luminant, its customers, and to 

the advancement of research, scholarship, as well as student 

and faculty member development.

CORPORATE GIVING. Vistra donated more 

than $1.6 million to nonprofit organiza-

tions in 2019, including the Irving Family 

Advocacy Center, Peoria Promise schol-

arship fund, Big Brothers and Big Sisters 

organization, numerous school districts, 

fire departments in proximity to our power 

plant operations, food pantries, and more.

ANNUAL GIVING CAMPAIGN. Every year, 

we come together to support our neigh-

bors in need through our United Way and 

TXU Energy AidSM campaign, our fore-

most giving initiative. Employees and the 

company raised more than $1.92 million in 

2019 and more than $9 million in the last 

five years. 

TXU ENERGY AIDSM.  TXU Energy, Vistra’s flagship retail 

ENERGY IN ACTION. This corporate-wide initiative was 

brand in Texas, has one of the most extensive utility and 

designed to support our spirit of volunteerism, facilitate and 

energy assistance programs in the nation. For more than 35 

encourage more opportunities to give back to our communi-

years, TXU Energy AidSM has helped Texas families in need 

ties, and recognize employees for their dedication to helping 

keep their homes powered and safe. Through the support of 

others. In 2019, Vistra employees volunteered nearly 4,400 

our employees, customers, and other donors, TXU Energy 

hours in the communities where we live and work, engaging 

AidSM helps an average of 20,000 customers each year with 

over 1,200 employees at nearly 75 events. A few of the signif-

bill-payment assistance, supporting social service agency 

icant volunteer events include:

partners across Texas. In total, the program has provid-

ed more than $100 million in bill-payment assistance for 

520,000 Texans. TXU Energy AidSM provided $4.6 million in 

•  Assembling hundreds of snack packs to support 

Community Partners of Dallas. 

funds to approximately 80 partner agencies, assisting nearly 

•  Participating in the Trinity River Cleanup, benefiting 

16,000 TXU Energy customers in 2019. 

the Trinity River Association.

BEAT THE HEAT. TXU Energy partners with various social 

service agencies to promote heat safety awareness and pro-

vide cooling fans and air-conditioning units during the hot 

summer months. 

ENERGY ASSISTANCE WORKSHOPS. TXU Energy regularly 

hosts energy assistance workshops for Texas social service 

agencies on electricity service, assistance plans, and market 

information.  

•  Providing meals with inspirational messages 

through the Salvation Army. 

•  Assembling over 100 birthday boxes to support 

Metrocrest Services.

•  Encouraging students to explore a new way of 

learning with “STEM in the Schoolyard,” benefiting 

the United Way of Metropolitan Dallas.

AMBIT CARES. Hunger affects one in nine people in Ameri-

ca, and because of that, Ambit Cares is committed to making 

LUMINANT ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH PROGRAM. Since 

a difference in the communities we serve. Ambit Cares 

the company pioneered a unique link between industry and 

makes great strides to change the lives of those who face 

academia 49 years ago, Luminant’s Environmental Research 

hunger and has been named a Supporting Partner of Feed-

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 29

ing America®, the nation’s largest organization dedicated to 

•  Luminant holds quarterly emergency response 

fighting domestic hunger through a network of food banks. 

team training and outreach at our largest generat-

In 2019 our dedicated team of volunteers and generous 

donors volunteered 1,388 hours, aided in the distribution 

of 215,316 pounds of food and collected $142,485 in total 

contributions.

VISTRA VETERANS AND MILITARY SUPPORT  

Vistra has a legacy of hiring veterans and providing strategic 

support to our servicemen and women. The U.S. military em-

ploys a diverse, skilled workforce, and we consider veterans a 

tremendous asset to the company’s team. In fact, there’s more 

ing sites. These events involve periodically engaging 

local fire, EMS, and law enforcement departments at 

our facilities, familiarizing them with potential haz-

ards they may encounter during a potential emer-

gency response, and coordinating training exercises 

with Luminant’s emergency response team. These 

exercises also include coordination with emergency 

management departments at local, state, and feder-

al levels for Comanche Peak Nuclear Power Plant in 

Glen Rose, Texas.  

than 400 veterans, guardsmen, and reservists in the Vistra 

•  Luminant holds Emergency Action Plan (EAP) 

family, and we salute them for their service. Vistra is proud to 

“table top” meetings for each of the dams near its 

partner with numerous veterans and military support organi-

zations, including Carry the Load, Fisher House Foundation, 

and the United Service Organization, among others. 

LOCAL COMMUNITIES  

Vistra and our subsidiaries have also undertaken initiatives to 

engage local communities to address the potential impacts 

of its operations, including:   

•  Luminant hosted a community town hall for resi-

dents in Robertson County, Texas, to learn about 

a mine-permit renewal, revision, and expansion 

application submitted to the Railroad Commission 

operations. These meetings are attended by multi-

ple state and local agencies, including emergency 

officials, in order to inform and coordinate with 

these stakeholders on our emergency prevention 

and action plan policies.

The cities and communities where our power plants are 

located rely on not only the employment opportunities for 

citizens in the area, but also the taxes that Vistra pays help-

ing fuel the local economy. Vistra pays about $200 million a 

year in property tax. Understanding we are an instrumental 

contributor to local economies, when Vistra decides to retire 

a power plant, we consider the impact on the surrounding 

community. With the recent power plant retirements in Texas 

and Illinois we approached each affected community with a 

proposal to step-down the value for property taxes over a 

period of years rather than recognizing the full decrease in 

the first year. The goal of this proposal was to cushion the 

near-term impact of the shutdown for the affected commu-

nities while also providing certainty for those local govern-

ment budgets over the next several years. We also support 

legislation to redevelop these sites into solar and energy 

storage facilities that further support the future tax base.

COVID-19 RESPONSE AND RELIEF

In March 2020, Vistra announced a $2 million donation to 

non-profits and social service agencies, providing direct relief 

for people in the communities it serves with critical needs 

resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of that com-

of Texas to develop a new lignite mine. Company 

mitment, Vistra made a $450,000 donation on behalf of its 

representatives were on hand to answer questions, 

flagship brand TXU Energy to help communities and individ-

share information, and gather input on the planned 

mine and its numerous local and statewide benefits.

•  Luminant hosted a series of community open hous-

es for all plant communities that have ash storage 

sites. Company representatives were on hand to 

answer questions about groundwater testing and 

mitigation options.

uals meet their most pressing needs, including support for 

food banks and food pantries, bill-payment assistance, critical 

needs, and more: a total of $200,000 went to the United Way 

of Metropolitan Dallas’ Coronavirus Response and Recovery 

Fund, and $250,000 went to 34 TXU Energy AidSM partners 

and other non-profits, many of which have been hit hard with 

a sharp increase in demand and dwindling supplies.

30 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STORM RELIEF

Luminant’s Oak Grove Power Plant, Kosse Mine, and 

When severe storms and tornadoes cause devastation and 

Bremond Mine). 

disruption to Vistra Retail’s customers, the company works 

•  $1,500 to Rusk County’s Emergency Management 

with individual customers impacted. In 2019 in Texas, for in-

department for the Code Red Weather Warning 

stance, there were severe storms in June and a tornado hit the 

System.

Dallas area in October. TXU Energy worked with customers to 

waive late fees, extend payment due dates, reduce down pay-

ments, and defer balances over equal installments. Addition-

ally, bill-payment assistance was also available through TXU 

Political Involvement

Vistra takes an active voice on potential or proposed legisla-

Energy AidSM. The funds, which are donated by the company, 

tion and regulation. The company participates in meetings, 

its employees, and customers, were allocated to existing TXU 

provides written letters, and interacts regularly with regulators 

Energy AidSM agency partners serving North Texas.

and policymakers. Vistra also advocates for its business inter-

ests with state and federal government officials. Any political 

Donations to local communities impacted by the storms 

participation by Vistra employees and representatives of 

include:

Vistra is conducted with honesty and integrity and complies 

with laws that regulate interactions with government entities 

•  300 mature trees to replace those lost in City of 

Dallas parks due to the North Texas tornadoes in 

and officials. 

October 2019.

Since 1978, Vistra Leaders PAC and Vistra State Energy Lead-

•  Contribution of $5,000 to the Salvation Army of 

ers PAC has supported candidates and elected officials, help-

DFW to assist with critical needs. 

ing Vistra build and maintain relationships at both the state 

•  $10,000 to the Franklin Tornado Victims Relief Fund 

and federal level. Vistra PACs gave over $280,000 in 2019, 

and $10,000 to the Robertson County Cares Food 

supporting the issues that are most important to our company 

Pantry for tornado relief (Franklin is located near 

and the industry.   

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 31

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The information presented herein includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Lit-

igation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, estimates and 

projections about the industry and markets in which Vistra Energy Corp. (“Vistra”) operates and beliefs of and assumptions 

made by Vistra’s management, involve risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and are not guarantees of future 

performance, that could significantly affect the financial results of Vistra. All statements, other than statements of historical 

facts, that are presented herein, or in response to questions or otherwise, that address activities, events or developments 

that may occur in the future, including such matters as activities related to our financial or operational projections, the 

potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, capital alloca-

tion, dividend policy, business and sustainability strategy, competitive strengths, goals, future acquisitions or dispositions, 

development or operation of power generation assets, market and industry developments and the growth of our businesses 

and operations (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases, or the negative variations of those words or 

other comparable words of a future or forward-looking nature, including, but not limited to: “intends,” “plans,” “will likely,” 

“unlikely,” “believe,” “confident”, “expect,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “will,” “shall,” “should,” “could,” “may,” 

“might,” “predict,” “project,” “forecast,” “target,” “potential,” “goal,” “objective,” “guidance” and “outlook”), are forward-look-

ing statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Although Vistra believes 

that in making any such forward-looking statement, Vistra’s expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any 

such forward-looking statement involves uncertainties and risks that could cause results to differ materially from those 

projected in or implied by any such forward-looking statement, including, but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general 

economic or market conditions (including changes in interest rates) or changes in political conditions or federal or state 

laws and regulations; (ii) the ability of Vistra to execute upon the contemplated strategic and performance initiatives and to 

successfully integrate acquired businesses; (iii) actions by credit ratings agencies; (iv) the severity, magnitude and duration 

of pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and the resulting effects on our results of operations, financial condition 

and cash flows; and (v) those additional risks and factors discussed in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Com-

mission by Vistra from time to time, including the uncertainties and risks discussed in the sections entitled “Risk Factors” 

and “Forward-Looking Statements” in Vistra’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and any 

subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only at the date on which it is made, and except as may be required by law, Vistra 

will not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date 

on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is 

not possible to predict all of them; nor can Vistra assess the impact of each such factor or the extent to which any factor, or 

combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.

32 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

2019 SASB STANDARDS TABLE

TOPIC

SASB CODE

ACCOUNTING METRIC

2019 DISCLOSURE

(1) Gross global scope 1 emissions

105,523,364 metric tons of CO2e 
Emissions are equity adjusted for partial ownership of certain power plants 
consistent with equity share methodologies as described in GHG Protocol: 
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition.

IF-EU-110a.1

(2) Percentage covered under emis-
sions-limiting regulations

9%

(3) Percentage covered under emis-
sions-reporting regulations

99.99% 
All of Vistra’s power plant facilities report under the EPA mandatory report-
ing program with the exception of two sites in 2019 whose emissions were 
insignificant. 

Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Energy 
Resource Planning

IF-EU-110a.3

Discussion of long-term and short-
term strategy or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction 
targets, and an analysis of perfor-
mance against those targets

Vistra announced emissions reduction targets in October of 2019 for its 
Scope 1 emissions. Vistra’s goal is to achieve a 50% reduction in CO2e 
emissions by 2030 and an 80% reduction in CO2e emissions by 2050, 
each as compared to a 2010 baseline. Vistra has an aspiration to achieve 
net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 if advancements in technology, market 
constructs, and public policy are supportive. We expect progress towards 
these goals will include incremental thermal asset retirements, continued 
investment in solar and battery storage, and the monitoring and potential 
deployment of new technologies. As of Dec. 31, 2019, Vistra reduced its 
CO2e emissions by 39% compared to a 2010 baseline—achieving nearly 78% 
of Vistra’s 2030 emissions reduction goal.

IF-EU-110a.4

(1) Number of customers served in 
markets subject to renewable portfolio 
standards (RPS)

(2) Percentage fulfillment of RPS 
target by market

Vistra operates in retail electric markets that are competitive, allowing the 
customer to choose the retail electric provider and plan for their electricity 
needs. Vistra retail offers numerous renewable product offerings if the cus-
tomer desires to purchase a renewable electricity plan. As of Dec. 31, 2019, 
of Vistra’s ~4.6 million customers, 99.8% of them are in states that have an 
RPS in place. 

Air Quality 

IF-EU-120a.1

Air emissions of the following pollut-
ants:  (1) NOx (excluding N2O), 2) SOx, 
(3) particulate matter (PM10), (4) lead 
(Pb), and (5) mercury (Hg); percent-
age of each in or near areas of dense 
population

Water Management

IF-EU-140a.1

(1) Total water withdrawn, percentage 
in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress

Pollutant

Emissions 
(metric tons)

% in or near areas  
of dense populations

NOX

SOX

PM10

Pb

Hg

1 Includes N2O

52,6101

105,743

5,356

0.44

0.47

75%

81%

67%

64%

65%

Water Source

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

2019 Total Water Withdrawn

Total (MegaLiters)

430,207 

13,072,635 

325,989 

113,751 

32 

13,942,614 

Vistra operates five power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or 
“Extremely High Stress.” These five plants represent 0.05% of total water 
withdrawn. See SASB disclosure IF-EU-140a.3 for further discussion. 

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 33

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOPIC

SASB CODE

ACCOUNTING METRIC

2019 DISCLOSURE

(2) Total water consumed, percentage 
in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress

Water Source

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

2019 Total Water Consumed

Total (MegaLiters)

                       4,831 

                   243,867 

                             -   

                     29,716 

                            32 

                   278,446 

Substantially all of our water withdrawn is not consumed, rather it is returned 
to its source or recycled. 

Vistra operates five power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or “Ex-
tremely High Stress.” These five plants represent 2.6% of water consumed. 
See SASB disclosure IF-EU-140a.3 for further discussion.

IF-EU-140a.2

Number of incidents of non-compli-
ance associated with water quantity 
and/or quality permits, standards, and 
regulations

No material fines or violations in 2019. 

Water Management 
(continued)

IF-EU-140a.3

Description of water management 
risks and discussion of strategies and 
practices to mitigate those risks

Water is a limited, expensive, and shared resource that is essential to 
Vistra’s plant operations. Producing electricity utilizes water in several key 
functions such as producing steam, condensing steam, cooling equipment, 
pollution control equipment. and in some circumstances, boiler make-up, 
potable water, cleaning and other uses. Therefore, water conservation is a 
primary concern at each of our generating facilities, especially those in high 
water stress areas. 

Though many of our plants are geographically situated in an area of ample 
water supply, Vistra practices environmental stewardship and works to 
efficiently use water. Where appropriate, we have built large reservoirs to 
capture water when it is plentiful, allowing it to be reused/recycled repeat-
edly. When feasible, we find ways to recycle water, to reuse water from one 
system to another system to reduce our use of freshwater, and to reclaim 
other types of wastewaters. In fact, Vistra plants only consume 2% of water 
withdrawn. We are also exploring new ways to maximize water resources 
and new technologies including wind power, solar power, and combined 
cycle generation. 

Vistra has five efficient natural gas fueled generating sites in areas identi-
fied as “High Stress” or “Extremely High Stress” in Texas. They are located 
in regions of the state that are either typically arid, historically susceptible 
to drought, and/or experiencing higher electricity demands due to signif-
icant business development and population growth in the state. Each of 
these highly efficient natural gas plants utilizes low water demand and has 
its own site-specific conservation measures: Two have extremely low water 
demand, one operates as a zero discharge facility, another uses reclaimed 
water as its primary source, and the last one utilizes low quality water with 
significant treatment, is able to recycle extensively, and then discharges to 
a facility that continues to recycle the same water.   

IF-EU-150a.1

Amount of coal combustion residuals 
(CCR) generated (metric tons)

5,177,948

Percentage recycled (metric tons)

63%

Coal Ash Management

IF-EU-150a.2

Total number of coal combustion 
residual (CCR) impoundments, broken 
down by hazard potential classification 
and structural integrity assessment

Vistra has a total of 30 impoundments classified as follows by hazard po-
tential classification: 8 Low, 8 High and 14 Significant. Vistra complies with 
the US EPA Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) requirements and reports are 
publicly available on Luminant’s website.

(1) Total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR)

(2) Fatality rate

(3) Near miss rate

1.05

0.02

4.7

Workforce Health  
& Safety

IF-EU-320a.1

All rates are calculated by multiplying the events by 200,000 and dividing 
by actual worked hours. Near Miss Events are defined by Vistra to be an un-
planned event that did not result in any injury, illness or property damage. 
The near miss rate was calculated from 261 near miss events for 2019.

34 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

 
 
TOPIC

SASB CODE

ACCOUNTING METRIC

2019 DISCLOSURE

Nuclear Safety  
& Emergency  
Management

IF-EU-540a.1

Total number of nuclear power units, 
broken down by U.S. Nuclear Regula-
tory Commission (NRC) Action Matrix 
Column

Reactor Unit

Action Matrix Column 

Comanche Peak 1

Licensee Response

Comanche Peak 2

Licensee Response

This information is available on the NRC’s website here. 

IF-EU-540a.2

Description of efforts to manage 
nuclear safety and emergency pre-
paredness

Safety is Vistra’s top priority. As a commercial nuclear plant operator, we 
are licensed by the US NRC. We must comply and follow NRC regula-
tions and programs regarding nuclear operations including their safety 
culture principles. Vistra’s power plant, Comanche Peak, publishes its own 
emergency information website for the public. In addition, oversight by the 
Nuclear Oversight Advisory Board (NOAB) ensures routine, periodic inde-
pendent oversight of nuclear plant performance, including safety metrics.

Number of residential customers 
served

IF-EU-000.A

Number of commercial customers 
served

Vistra serves 4,595,000 retail customers as of December 2019.  

This number is representative of RCE’s or residential customer equivalent. 
A single RCE represents 1,000 therms of natural gas or 10,000 kWh of 
electricity.

Number of industrial customers served

Total electricity delivered to residential 
customers

Total electricity delivered to commer-
cial customers

IF-EU-000.B

Total electricity delivered to industrial 
customers

Vistra delivered 77,600 GWh of power to it is retail electric customers.

Total electricity delivered to all other 
retail customers

Percentage of wholesale customers

Activity Metric

2019 Total Electricity Generated

Fuel 

MWh

% of Total

IF-EU-000.D

Total electricity generated, percentage 
of electricity generated by major en-
ergy source, percentage in regulated 
markets

Coal

Gas

     66,466,972 

   100,215,277 

Nuclear

     19,304,817 

Oil

Solar

Total

              2,755 

          438,784 

   186,428,605 

0% of electricity is generated in regulated markets.

35.7%

53.8%

10.4%

0.0%

0.2%

IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale electricity purchased

2,334 GWh with over 50% attributed to wind purchases.

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 35

 
 
 
2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE/SECTION

UN SDG

GRI 102: General Disclosures

102-1

102-2

102-3

Name of the organization

Vistra Energy Corp.

Activities, brands, products, and services

2019 Annual Report

Location of headquarters

Irving, Texas, USA

102-4

Location of operations

The company brings its products and services to market in 20 states and the 
District of Columbia, including six of the seven competitive markets in the U.S. 
and markets in Canada and Japan.

102-5

Ownership and legal form

Vistra Energy is an investor-owned corporation. Common shares trade on the 
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “VST.”

102-6

102-7

102-8

Markets served

Scale of the organization

2019 Annual Report

2019 Annual Report

Information on employees and other workers

As of Dec. 31, 2019, Vistra had approximately 5,475 full-time employees. 
See Disclosure 405-1 - Diversity & Equal Opportunity

102-9

Supply chain

See our Supply Chain webpage. 

102-10

102-11

102-12

102-13

102-14

102-16

Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chain

2019 Annual Report

Precautionary Principle or approach

2019 Annual Report

External initiatives

Referenced throughout our Sustainability Report

Membership of associations 

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- Organizations

Statement from senior decision-maker

Sustainability Report: CEO’s Message

Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior 

Sustainability Report: Core Principles 
Vistra’s Code of Conduct

102-18

Governance structure 

Sustainability Report: Governance 

See our Corporate Governance webpage. 

2020 Proxy Statement

102-40

List of stakeholder groups 

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- Stakeholders

102-41

Collective bargaining agreements

As of Dec. 31, 2019, less than 31% of Vistra employees were under collective 
bargaining agreements.

102-42

102-43

102-44

102-45

102-46

102-47

102-48

102-49

102-50

102-51

102-52

102-53

102-54

Identifying and selecting stakeholders 

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- Stakeholders

Approach to stakeholder engagement

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- Stakeholders

Key topics and concerns raised

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- About this Report

Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements 

2019 Annual Report

Defining report content and topic Boundaries 

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO

List of material topics 

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- About this Report

Restatements of information

This is Vistra’s first report in accordance with GRI Standards

Changes in reporting 

This is Vistra’s first report in accordance with GRI Standards

Reporting period 

Calendar year 2019

Date of most recent previous report 

This is Vistra’s first report in accordance with GRI Standards

Reporting cycle

Annual

Contact point for questions regarding the report 

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- Stakeholders

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
Standards

Sustainability Report: Letter from CSO- About this Report

102-55

GRI content index

Sustainability Report: GRI Index

102-56

External assurance 

Vistra retained Deloitte & Touche LLP to conduct limited assurance of Scope 1 
GHG Emissions in this report for the year ending Dec. 31, 2019. The full report 
can be found online.

36 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

 
DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE/SECTION

UN SDG

GRI 201: Economic Performance

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

2019 Annual Report

201-1

201-2

GRI 302: Energy

Direct economic value generated and distributed

2019 Annual Report

Financial implications and other risks and oppor-
tunities due to climate change

2019 Annual Report 
Sustainability Report: Risk Management

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Environment 
Environmental Principles Policy

302-1

Energy consumption within the organization

302-3

Energy intensity

485,009,207 MWh 
Vistra’s total 2019 energy consumption represents the fuel and electricity con-
sumed at its 54 operational power plants and the electricity consumed at its 4 
corporate locations in the Dallas,TX metroplex. All fuel was converted to MWh 
using the U.S. EIA conversion calculators.

2.60  
Calculated using the total energy consumption from disclosure 302-1 divided 
by the total MWh of electricity generated for 2019.

302-4

Reduction of energy consumption

Sustainability Report: Facilities

GRI 303: Water and Effluents

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Water is a limited and shared resource that is essential to Vistra’s power plant 
operations. Producing electricity requires water for cooling to condense steam 
at our generating plants along with boiler make-up, potable water, cleaning 
and other uses. Therefore, water scarcity is a concern which could negatively 
impact both operations and revenues especially for plants in high water stress 
areas. Climate change and seasonal variability could potentially aggravate this 
impact by disrupting or restricting cooling water supplies. Vistra recognizes 
that water is a communal resource, and is working to define the scope of this 
issue and refine our management strategies.

303-1

Interactions with water as a shared resource 

Sustainability Report: Environment-Water

303-2

Management of water discharge-related impacts

All operating power plants in the Vistra fleet are governed by local, state, 
and federal permits that control water use and effluent quality. Our facilities 
meet water quality discharge limitations and sample and report per permit 
requirements. 

303-3

Water withdrawal 

2019 Total Water Withdrawn

Water Source 

Total (MegaLiters)

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

430,207

13,072,635

325,989

113,751

32

13,942,614 

Vistra operates 5 power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or “Extremely 
High Stress”. These 5 plants represent 0.05% of total water withdrawn. 

2, 5, 7, 8, 9

13

7, 8, 12, 13

7, 8, 12, 13

7, 8, 12, 13

6, 12

3, 6, 12, 
14, 15

6, 12

U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) KEY

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 37

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE/SECTION

UN SDG

303-4

Water discharge   

303-5

Water consumption 

2019 Total Water Discharged

Water Source 

Total (MegaLiters)

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

425,376

12,828,768

325,989

84,035

-

13,664,168

Vistra operates 5 power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or  
“Extremely High Stress”. These 5 plants do not discharge water. 

2019 Total Water Consumed

Water Source 

Total (MegaLiters)

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

4,831

243,867

0

29,716

32

278,446

Vistra operates 5 power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or  
“Extremely High Stress”. These 5 plants represent 2.7% of water consumed.

GRI 305: Emissions

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Environment- Emissions 
Environmental Principles Policy

305-1

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

105,523,364 metric tons of CO2e

305-2

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

305-4

GHG emissions intensity

249,068 metric tons of CO2e 
Scope 2 emissions represent the electricity purchased from the grid and 
consumed at Vistra’s 54 operational power plants and its 4 corporate locations 
in the Dallas, TX metroplex. Reported Scope 2 emissions are location-based 
and were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s eGRID2018 emissions factors.

0.57 
Calculated using Scope 1 emissions as reported in disclosure  
305-1 divided by total MWh of electricity generated in 2019.

305-5

Reduction of GHG emissions

Sustainability Report: Environment- Emissions

305-7

Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 
other significant air emissions

Sustainability Report: Environment- Emissions

GRI 306: Effluents and Waste

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Environmental Principles Policy

306-2

Waste by type and disposal method

Sustainability Report: Environment- Coal Ash Byproduct and Other Waste 
Sustainability Report: Deskside Recycling

306-3

Significant spills

No significant spills occurred in 2019.

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Environment 
Environmental Principles Policy

6, 12, 14

6, 12

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

13, 14, 15

13, 14, 15

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

3, 6, 12

3, 6, 12, 
14, 15

307-1

Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations

Sustainability Report: Environment

13, 16

GRI 401: Employment

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Employees 
See our Careers webpage.

38 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE/SECTION

UN SDG

401-1

New employee hires and employee turnover

5,475

6.83%

7.94%

5, 8

Total Employees as of 
12/31/19

Voluntary Turnover Rate1 Overall Turnover Rate1

401-2

Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

403-1

Occupational health and safety management 
system

403-2

Hazard identification, risk assessment, and inci-
dent investigation

403-4

Worker participation, consultation, and commu-
nication on occupational health and safety

1 2019 turnover rates reflect employee retirements in higher numbers than 
previous years. Removing the retirement impact, voluntary and total turnover 
rates would be 4.81% and 5.92%, respectively.

Sustainability Report: Employees- Employee Benefits

8

Sustainability Report: Safety 
Vistra is committed to providing safe and reliable power to consumers. We 
operate our facilities to the highest safety standards and focus on ensuring our 
employees are putting up their best defenses in order to fail safely. Our safety 
philosophy revolves around human performance and developing systems 
where error is accounted for so that failure does not result in serious injuries. 
We carry out our safety mission by incorporating our core principles.  

Our safety program focuses on three aspects: our people, our processes and 
our procedures. These are divided up into three processes using Human Per-
formance Initiatives, Behavior Based Safety programs and applying the OSHA 
Voluntary Protection Program framework for a safety management system.  

Each Vistra location abides by corporate led safety procedures that meet 
OSHA requirements.  Facilities are required to train on all procedures and 
records are kept in a central learning management system. All employees 
and management are engaged in the safety program, performing audits and 
observing work. Internal and external audits are performed as part of normal 
business to verify compliance with internal and OSHA procedures and guid-
ance. 

Vistra has organized Centers of Excellence (COE) which consist of a 
cross-functional team of stakeholders committed to the development, sustain-
ability, optimization, and improvement of best practices, processes, standards, 
and procedures for key functional areas within our fossil generation fleet. Our 
COEs are divided into groups with an oversight group led by management.  

Our Hazard Management Center of Excellence (HM COE) mission is to provide 
standards that clearly state the company’s expectations to manage the haz-
ards associated with our industry and to protect our employees and the public. 
Vistra has created sub-teams under the guidance of the HM COE for certain 
hazardous processes at its facilities including: Arc Flash, Boiler and Machinery, 
Combustible Dust, Fire Protection, and Highly Hazardous Chemicals (PSM/An-
hydrous Ammonia, Hydrogen, Natural Gas, etc.). These teams are responsible 
for developing and maintaining programs for their respective hazard across 
the fleet. The standards created will provide a consistent approach for all sites 
and facilitate sharing of best practices. The standards provide guidance for 
assessments and audits for each program, maintenance metrics, team member 
requirements and quarterly reports to the Executive Oversight Committee.

Vistra conducts a team approach to safety where everyone is involved and 
engaged in the safety process. All managers are required to participate in 
safety engagements with work staff to enable constant communication and 
interaction. The corporate safety team develops and distributes monthly safety 
information to all operations staff and regularly posts information on the 
intranet. Safety training is accomplished for the entire organization through 
web based systems to communication on the company’s safety management 
system, injury reporting and emergency preparedness.  

Each facility holds regular safety meetings with employees and manage-
ment representatives. The safety committee is responsible for reviewing new 
procedures, safety observations made at their specific location to determine 
corrective actions, and lessons learned from incidents that have occurred at 
other sites. The safety committees are also tasked with managing emergency 
procedures for each location.  

403-5

403-6

403-8

403-9

Worker training on occupational health and 
safety

Sustainability Report: Safety Training

Promotion of worker health

Sustainability Report: Wellness

Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management system 

All Vistra employees are covered by our safety program: Best Defense.

Work-related injuries

Sustainability Report: Safety Statistics

GRI 404: Training and Education

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Training and Development

404-1

Average hours of training per year per employee

Sustainability Report: Training and Development

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

4, 8

VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 39

 
 
 
 
UN SDG

4, 5, 8

5, 8

5, 8

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE/SECTION

404-2

404-3

Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs

Percentage of employees receiving regular  
performance and career development reviews

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity

Sustainability Report: Training and Development

Sustainability Report: Performance Review Program

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Diversity

Gender Distribution by Business Unit

Male

Female

Overall

80.6%

19.4%

Retail

45.6%

54.4%

Corporate

Generation

62.8%

37.2%

91.8%

8.2%

Corporate Gender Distribution by Employee Category

Director+

Manager

Indv. Contributor

Non-Exempt

Male

Female

71.7%

28.3%

68.9%

31.1%

61.0%

39.0%

38.3%

61.7%

Retail Gender Distribution by Employee Category

Director+

Manager

Indv. Contributor

Non-Exempt

Male

Female

74.0%

26.0%

56.9%

43.1%

51.8%

48.2%

23.3%

76.7%

Generation Gender Distribution by Employee Category

Director+

Manager

Indv. Contributor

Non-Exempt

Bargaining

Male

Female

90.4%

9.6%

91.9%

8.1%

85.5%

14.5%

89.4%

10.6%

94.6%

5.4%

Ethnicity Distribution by Business Unit

Overall

Non-Minority

75.8%

African-
American

Hispanic

Minority - Other

9.7%

7.8%

6.7%

Retail

46.8%

23.9%

16.8%

12.5%

Corporate

Generation

54.6%

11.0%

9.5%

24.9%

86.2%

6.2%

5.5%

2.1%

Corporate Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Director+

Manager

Indv. 
Contributor

Non-Exempt

Non-Minority

74.9%

African-
American

Hispanic

Minority - Other

4.4%

8.8%

11.9%

57.4%

6.5%

15.5%

20.6%

49.7%

13.5%

8.4%

28.4%

31.8%

16.8%

11.7%

39.8%

Retail Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Director+

Manager

Indv. 
Contributor

Non-Exempt

Non-Minority

80.6%

68.8%

54.4%

African-
American

Hispanic

Minority - Other

4.8%

7.2%

7.4%

11.8%

9.8%

9.7%

17.2%

13.7%

14.7%

15.5%

46.0%

27.9%

10.7%

Generation Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Director+

Manager

Indv. 
Contributor

Non-Exempt

Bargaining

Non-Minority

92.1%

90.5%

87.5%

85.0%

84.7%

African-
American

1.1%

Hispanic

3.0%

3.6%

4.8%

Minority - Other

3.9%

1.1%

3.0%

6.8%

2.7%

2.8%

8.4%

3.8%

9.4%

4.4%

1.5%

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

40 — VISTRA 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

 
 
 
 
Vistra Energy Corp. 

6555 Sierra Drive

Irving, TX 75039

www.vistraenergy.com

NYSE: VST

