Citizenship @ Microsoft

2007–2008

Empowering People
and Communities Worldwide

Microsoft believes that it can make the
greatest contribution to society when its
business operations and citizenship efforts
are closely aligned.

which brings together the company’s corporate citizenship 
efforts and many of its business investments to significantly 
broaden the reach of technology in underserved commu-
nities. Unlimited Potential aims to deliver the benefits of 
relevant, accessible and affordable software to the 5 billion 
people who today have no access to technology or the 
opportunities it affords, with a goal of reaching the next 1 
billion people by 2015. 

Delivering innovation in Microsoft products, services 
and corporate practices is also central to our citizenship 
efforts. This includes advanced research; support for intel-
lectual property protections to stimulate innovation; efforts 
to strengthen computer security, privacy and Internet 
safety; transparency and integrity in our business practices; 
environmental stewardship; and humanitarian assistance.

All of these efforts are rooted in Microsoft’s mission—to 
enable people and businesses throughout the world to real-
ize their full potential. These priorities also reflect our belief 
that social improvement and a strong business community 
go hand in hand. 

Advances in digital literacy, innovation and a trusted 

computing ecosystem help spawn new markets and 
increase the ability of individuals and nations to partici-
pate and compete globally. This creates a virtuous cycle of 
socioeconomic opportunity that is good for people, good 
for local communities and good for Microsoft.

Students in Brazil’s poorer neighborhoods are  

using the Internet to explore the world beyond 
their neighborhood…

Adults with disabilities in the United States are learn-
ing computer skills that will enable them to work and 
participate more fully in their communities…

Software developers in China are creating breakthrough 
Internet applications in a free community-based  
technology lab…

When people are equipped with the right tools to 
stimulate their imagination and tap their intellect, there 
is almost no limit to what they can achieve. Over the last 
30 years, software has proven to be a powerful catalyst 
for helping people do amazing things and for enabling 
educational, social and economic advances in communities 
around the world.

Although technology is not a cure-all, when integrated 

with broader efforts to promote socioeconomic develop-
ment, it can empower individuals, foster local innovation 
and enable economic growth. 

As a global leader in technology, Microsoft recognizes 
that it has a unique opportunity and responsibility to apply 
its expertise in software to helping people, particularly in 
underserved communities.

Our citizenship commitments are focused in several 
key areas: transforming education, enabling jobs and op-
portunities, encouraging local innovation and industry 
collaboration, helping to create a safe and secure comput-
ing ecosystem, and maintaining high standards of account-
ability in our business practices.

We believe that we can make the greatest contribution 

when our citizenship efforts are closely aligned with our 
business strategy and when we work in partnership with 
governments, development organizations, nonprofits and 
other industry leaders. 

In 2007, Microsoft launched Unlimited Potential, 

80 million students worldwide have been reached by  

Microsoft Partners in Learning initiatives since 2003

Unlimited Potential: Aligning 
Business and Citizenship
Although technology has led to significant advanc-

es in productivity and economic growth in devel-
oped countries over the last 30 years, most of the 
world’s population still has little or no access to 
it. Through Unlimited Potential, Microsoft is expanding its 
commitment to bringing the benefits of relevant, accessible 
and affordable technology to people at the middle and bot-
tom of the economic pyramid.

helps broaden students’ access to technology by making 
affordable and reliable software available to qualifying gov-
ernments that purchase PCs for students to use at school 
and at home.

Fostering Local Innovation

Although there is strong evidence that a healthy local 
technology industry contributes to economic growth, many 
communities lack the infrastructure and resources to help 
new businesses get established and grow.

Through a global network of 130 Microsoft Innova-
tion Centers in 60 countries, Microsoft provides students, 
developers and entrepreneurs with access to ICT skills 
training, advanced technology tools and world-class con-
sultants. The centers offer courses on software development 
and business skills as well as employment programs for 

Unlimited Potential weaves together Microsoft’s technol-
ogy innovations, business strategies and citizenship efforts 
with a global network of partnerships to help address 
specific needs in local communities. This work spans three 
interrelated areas: transforming education, fostering local 
innovation, and enabling jobs and opportunities.

Transforming Education

A good education is the cornerstone of economic opportu-
nity. Yet in many countries, the educational infrastructure 
and traditional teaching methods are not providing young 
people with the skills they need for today’s workplace. 
To address these challenges, Microsoft is working with 
governments, educators and development organizations to 
improve the quality of education. This work involves pro-
viding teachers and education leaders with new skills and 
resources, enabling student-centered learning, and creating 
relevant and effective software tools.

At the center of these efforts is Partners in Learning 
(PiL), a five-year, US$250 million initiative that offers cur-
ricula and training programs, software and grants in 101 
countries. Since 2003, PiL programs have provided training 
to more than 3.5 million teachers and have reached more 
than 80 million students.

A number of PiL programs offer professional develop-

ment resources to help educators use technology more 
effectively in the classroom. A global network of Internet-
based portals enables teachers to share ideas and materials 
more broadly. And the Microsoft Student Innovation Suite 

Localized versions of Microsoft products are  
available in more than

100

different languages

29,000

Microsoft-supported Community Technology 
Centers in 102 countries provide IT education and 
skills training for the people who need it most

students and instructor certification courses. They also help 
create valuable partnership and development opportunities 
for emerging businesses.

Microsoft’s Local Language Program helps nurture 
productivity and innovation in local communities by 
providing access to Microsoft products in more than 100 
languages. Microsoft works with governments, language au-
thorities and universities to ensure that translations honor 
local linguistic and cultural distinctions. Resources include 
Language Interface Packs that translate the user interface 
for commonly used software as well as support for local 
development of solutions such as spelling checkers and 
translation dictionaries.

To stimulate creative thinking among the next genera-

tion of innovators, Microsoft sponsors Imagine Cup, an 
annual global competition for high school and university 
students. Imagine Cup challenges entrants to apply their 
imagination and passion to creating technology innovations 
that can improve the world. Winning entries have included 
a personal navigation system to help visually impaired 
people get around in unfamiliar environments.

Enabling Jobs and Opportunities

A strong technology infrastructure can help communities 
create new jobs and attract investments that bolster eco-
nomic growth and global competitiveness. But its prerequi-
site is a skilled workforce.

Microsoft works with a range of government and non-

profit partners to provide skills training, expand entre-
preneurship and assist employers in finding qualified job 
candidates. For example, the Partnerships for Technology 
Access program helps individuals and small businesses 
purchase PCs and receive skills training through flexible 
financing plans.

Through the Students to Business (S2B) program, 
Microsoft helps companies find and hire talented students 
for their first job or internship in the technology profession 
by matching qualified candidates with open positions. And 
we support a network of more than 29,000 Community 
Technology Centers (CTCs) in 102 countries that provide 
IT education and skills training to hundreds of thousands 
of people each year. This commitment includes cash grants, 
donated software, and a comprehensive digital literacy cur-
riculum and certification programs in 21 languages.

Innovation and Leadership:
Core to Microsoft’s Mission
Three decades after the birth of the personal com-

puter, what’s left for information technology to 
accomplish? This question can only be answered 
with another question: How far can the human 

imagination stretch?

Since Microsoft’s early days, innovation has been at the 
center of the company’s business and software development 
strategy. It has led to the delivery of breakthrough products 
and services and creative responses to customers’ evolving 
needs. In recent years, Microsoft has also invested signifi-
cantly in production innovations and services to make its 
technologies safer, more secure and interoperable with 
other companies’ products. Underpinning these efforts is 
our commitment to transparency and integrity in our busi-
ness practices, including the way we work with customers, 
partners, governments, vendors and communities.

Advancing Research, Interoperability and Security

With an R&D investment of more than US$6 billion annu-
ally, Microsoft is one of the few companies that continue to 
focus on the kind of basic research that drives long-term 
advances, while also providing a continuous stream of in-
novative new products and services for customers today.

Our commitment to innovation also includes protecting 

the value of intellectual property. Microsoft believes that 
respect for intellectual property rights is crucial to enabling 
innovators to bring their ideas to market and to developing 
a thriving IT ecosystem. To this end, we have worked with 
Creative Commons, a nonprofit organization, to develop 
and release a free copyright licensing tool that enables 
people to embed licensing information in their work and to 
specify how the work can be reused or shared.

We are also committed to promoting greater interoper-

ability among technology products and services. This is 
particularly important to business customers who need dif-
ferent kinds of computer systems to work well together.  
Microsoft is working to meet this need by designing prod-
ucts that are interoperable out of the box, collaborating 
with other companies on their product designs, making a 
diverse portfolio of our intellectual property available for 
licensing, and helping to establish standards that simplify 
the process of designing interoperable software.

As technology and the Web have become increasingly 
important in people’s lives, the issues of security, privacy 
and Internet safety have also become more significant.  

Microsoft is addressing these challenges on a variety of 
fronts. We are continually developing new products and 
services that make the computing experience safer and 
more secure, particularly for young people. We work 
closely with law enforcement to fight cyber-crime, identity 
theft and online predators. And we help safeguard users’ 
privacy with protections built into our software, industry-
leading policies that govern the collection and use of per-
sonally identifiable information, and a range of educational 
programs for customers.

recyclable cardboard and other eco-friendly, biodegradable 
materials. Microsoft is also a leader in employing construc-
tion methods that promote energy efficiency and the use 
of recycled products and nontoxic materials. At Microsoft’s 
Silicon Valley Campus, up to 15 percent of the energy used 
is generated by solar panels, and in Hyderabad, India, a 
rainwater catchment system serves the irrigation needs of 
the company’s 48-acre campus. Our newest and largest data 
server facility, located in Quincy, Washington, is powered 
by hydroelectricity, a renewable, clean-air resource.

Accountability and Sustainable Business Practices 

Humanitarian Assistance

Underlying Microsoft’s product and citizenship investments 
is a strong commitment to transparency and accountabil-
ity in our business practices. The Microsoft Standards of 
Business Conduct guide the company’s decision making 
and business activities. Our Office of Legal Compliance is 
responsible for establishing, implementing and maintaining 
the company’s compliance and governance programs, and 
all employees receive training in the standards.

Our corporate policies also reflect a strong commitment 

to environmental stewardship. Microsoft has significantly 
reduced the use of plastic in product packaging in favor of 

Microsoft and its employees regularly step up to help those 
who have been forced to flee their homes, whether because 
of a natural disaster, war or societal conflict. In addition to 
donating more than US$11 million in cash and software to 
Hurricane Katrina relief efforts in 2005, Microsoft helped 
the American Red Cross develop state-of-the-art technol-
ogy that will standardize the exchange of vital information 
about people’s welfare in the aftermath of a dis aster. The 
Safe and Well Web site, accessible via www.redcross.org, al-
lows disaster victims to select and post standard messages 
for friends and family that indicate that they have found 

US$41 million

in software and cash from Microsoft is aiding
the disaster response efforts of NetHope and 
other organizations

shelter and will make contact when they are able.

Together with NetHope, a coalition of more than 20 
nongovernmental organizations dedicated to international 
development, and the Interagency Working Group on 
Emergency Capacity Building, Microsoft is spearheading 
other innovative uses of technology to support more ef-
ficient and rapid communications during times of crisis.

Since 1999, Microsoft has worked closely with the Of-
fice of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
to provide people in dozens of countries with access to 
technology tools, skills training and other essential services. 
Microsoft attorneys have also helped dozens of refugees 
make a fresh start by providing pro bono legal counsel in 
hearings before U.S. immigration courts.

Our Mission

At Microsoft, our mission is to enable people 
and businesses throughout the world to  
realize their full potential.

More information about Microsoft’s citizenship programs and 
investments worldwide can be found at: 
www.Microsoft.com/citizenship   

E-mail us:  
mcitizen@microsoft.com

This brochure was printed with soy-based 
inks on 100% recycled paper that was 
manufactured entirely with Green-e® certi-
fied wind energy and processed without 
the use of chlorine or chlorine derivatives.

© 2007 Microsoft Corporation. All rights 
reserved. This document is for informa-
tional purposes only. MICROSOFT MAKES 
NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, IN 
THIS SUMMARY. Microsoft is a registered 
trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the 
United States and other countries. The 
names of actual companies and products 
mentioned herein may be the trademarks 
of their respective owners.

Part No. 098-109014

