Corporate Citizenship Report

4
1
0
2

Table of contents

11

20

23

33

40

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Chairman’s letter

About ExxonMobil

Contributing  
to progress

The Outlook  
for Energy

Sustainability and 
engagement

External Citizenship 
Advisory Panel

Key sustainability 
issues and challenges

Safety, health and  
the workplace

•  Safety
•  Emergency 

preparedness  
and response

•  Workplace security
•  Health and wellness
•  Workforce

Case study: Combating 
infectious diseases, 
both inside and beyond 
our fence line

Environmental
performance

•  Environmental 
management
•  Biodiversity and 

ecosystem services
•  Water management
•  Spill performance
•  Air emissions
•  Environmental 
compliance

•  Rehabilitating the 

environment

43

54

57

63

Community and  
social impact

•  Respecting human rights
•  Managing community 

impacts

•  Strategic community 

investments

•  Employee participation

Case study: Responsible 
production in Papua  
New Guinea

Local development and 
supply chain management

•  Local economic growth 

and development

•  Supply chain 
management

Corporate governance

•  Ethics and integrity
•  Board of directors
•  Shareholder relations
•  Political advocacy  
and contributions

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

Managing climate
change risks

•  Engaging on climate 
change policy and 
planning

•  Mitigating greenhouse 
gas emissions in our 
operations

•  Developing future 

technology

69

About this report

70

Materiality

71

Performance data

74

IPIECA/GRI  
content index

75

Assurance statement

Case study: Innovation 
drives sustainability 
in Downstream and 
Chemical businesses

Featured on the cover of this report 
are four students at Arlington Heights 
High School in Fort Worth, Texas. With 
support from ExxonMobil, the school is 
participating in the National Math and 
Science Initiative’s College Readiness 
Program, which is dramatically improving 
student performance in math and science 
in high schools in the United States.

Web

Video

Throughout the report, additional 
content is available by clicking the 
icons shown above.

Chairman’s letter

ExxonMobil’s Corporate Citizenship Report details some of the work we do each 
day to provide the energy needed to improve standards of living throughout the 
world in a safe, ethical and environmentally and socially responsible manner. 

Our employees share a commitment to safety, integrity, operational 
excellence and good corporate citizenship; they work every day to protect 
the environment, maximize benefits for the communities in which we work, 
and maintain a safe, secure and healthy workplace. By focusing on creating 
long-term benefits for communities, we are contributing to society’s broader 
sustainability objectives, creating a more stable business environment and 
improved quality of life.

Ten years ago, this report first introduced Protect Tomorrow. 
Today., a set of corporate-wide expectations to achieve superior 
environmental performance. This year’s report is an opportunity 
to highlight many of our accomplishments over the past decade, 
while discussing the environmental and socioeconomic  
challenges we continue to face.

Meeting global energy demand
As outlined in ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040, energy 
demand has dramatically increased in recent years and will continue to grow  
by an estimated 35 percent from 2010 to 2040. Oil and natural gas will be 
essential to meeting the rising need, in conjunction with nuclear and renew-
able energy supplies. No matter the economic and geopolitical climate, we will 
maintain the safety, operational and ethical diligence that has driven ExxonMobil’s  
success, so we can continue to provide the energy that is vital to progress. From 
the startup of eight new Upstream projects around the world to our ongoing 
developments in the Alaskan and Russian Arctic, we will continue our work to 
meet the increasing demand for energy.

Commitment to excellence
Our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt is at the heart of what we do every day. We are 
proud to be an industry leader in safety culture and performance, and in 2014 
achieved our best-ever safety record. Examples of our safety leadership are 
included throughout this report.

We strive to reduce environmental impacts across the life cycle of our projects. 
In 2014, we worked extensively in locations such as Alaska, Australia, Qatar and 
Russia to protect the ecosystems and biodiversity near our sites. We continue 
to look for ways to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our water 

Chairman’s letter

and energy usage. We also engaged with local communities in coun-
tries around the world to enhance the social benefits from our opera-
tions. The case study about our work in Papua New Guinea (page 54) 
illustrates our holistic approach to corporate citizenship.

Investing in the future
Managing the risks of climate change is an important responsibility for 
our business and society at large. We continue to take steps to improve 
efficiency, reduce emissions and contribute to effective long-term 
solutions to manage these risks. In 2014, we invested approximately 
$1 billion in research and technology development in areas that include 
existing and next-generation energy sources and products that can 
enable more efficient energy consumption. 

By the end of 2014, we actively managed 7,200 acres of land for the 
benefit of wildlife, promoting environmental awareness in our work-
force and local communities. We also work to remediate sites we are 
no longer using so they can be beneficially reused in the future.

To ensure the continuity of our operations, we place an emphasis  
on hiring local workers and providing them with the technical and  
leadership skills that can serve them throughout their careers. This 
approach also enables us to contribute to economic development  
in the countries where we do business.

We also continue to support a variety of long-term community  
investments. Our ongoing efforts to combat malaria and other 
infectious diseases enabled us to mobilize swiftly to help address the 
Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa in 2014, as detailed on page 22. 
We fund initiatives that focus on science, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) education, as well as the economic empowerment of 
women through our women’s economic opportunity initiative, now 
in its 11th year. Advancements in these areas will benefit our society 
now and in the future. 

As always, we welcome input from all of our stakeholders  
at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. 

Rex W. Tillerson 
Chairman and CEO

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

3

About ExxonMobil

About ExxonMobil

ExxonMobil’s integrated businesses

ExxonMobil is a global provider of the energy that is critical to 
driving progress and improving the lives of people around the 
world. We recognize the significant responsibilities we have 
to our shareholders, neighbors, customers and communities 
in our daily operations as we find safe, efficient and respon-
sible ways to bring affordable energy to a global market. Our 
employees, technical expertise, financial strength, global reach 
and management practices provide ExxonMobil with a com-
petitive advantage and long-term investment value.

As the world’s largest publicly held oil and gas company, 
ExxonMobil has a diverse and balanced portfolio of high- 
quality assets, projects and resources across our Upstream, 
Downstream and Chemical businesses. We seek to maintain 
a large, diverse and balanced portfolio of opportunities to 
ensure profitable growth through a wide range of investment 
and geopolitical environments.

pstream 
    U

  D ownstream   

pment          Pro d uctio n                          R e

e

velo
n          D

io
t
a
r
o
l
p
x
E

er    Upstrea m  
g     Research  

w
tin
o
 & P
e
k
r
a
M

s
a
G

f

i n i n g   &  
                  S u p p l y  

      Fuels Marketing       Lubricants &                          B
  Specialties                  C

a

h

e

m

ic

a

sic                  I
ls        

C

h

e

m

i

c

a

l

  R esearch &  

 E n gineering                               R
             P

la
s
ti

e

c

n

t

e

r

m

e

d

i

a

t

e

s

S

y

n

t

h
e
t

i

c
s

s
i

s

n

&

s

 E

l

S

a

p

s

t

e

B

o

c

i

u

t

y

m
e

l

r

a

l

t

y

s

&

Upstream
Our Upstream business encompasses high-quality exploration 
opportunities across all resource types and geographies, an 
industry-leading resource base, a portfolio of world-class proj-
ects and a diverse set of producing assets. We have an active 
exploration or production presence in 36 countries.

Downstream
Our balanced Downstream portfolio includes refining facilities  
in 17 countries. We are one of the largest integrated refiners  
and manufacturers of lube basestocks and a leading marketer  
of petroleum products and finished lubricants. Our high-quality  
products, combined with a strong global refining and distribu-
tion network, position us as a premier supplier around  
the world.

Chemical
ExxonMobil Chemical is one of the largest chemical companies 
in the world. Our unique portfolio of commodity and specialty 
businesses delivers superior returns across the business  
cycle. We manufacture high-quality chemical products in  
16 countries. Our products serve as the building blocks for  
a wide variety of everyday consumer and industrial products.

4.0 million oil-equivalent barrels of  

net oil and gas production per day

5.9 million barrels of petroleum 

product sales per day

24.2 million metric tons of  

prime product sales1

1Prime product sales are total product sales, excluding carbon black oil and sulfur. Prime product sales include ExxonMobil’s share of equity company volumes and finished product transfers to the Downstream.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contributing to progress

Contributing to progress

Energy flows through every product and enables nearly every 
human endeavor. Current global energy demand is estimated 
to be about 550 quadrillion BTUs, which is equivalent in energy 
to more than 12 billion gallons of gasoline daily. Energy pro-
vides comfort and security, enables personal mobility, powers 
commercial buildings, supports travel and trade, and fuels 
modern manufacturing. ExxonMobil plays a role in providing 
the energy crucial for continued economic prosperity and 
human progress.

Not only does ExxonMobil provide energy throughout the 
world, but we also make significant positive impacts on the 
global economy through capital and exploration expenditures, 
shareholder distributions and tax payments that totaled $196 
billion in 2014. For more information about our financial per-
formance, see our 2014 Summary Annual Report.

ExxonMobil 2014 Summary Annual Report

Global economic flows 
from ExxonMobil in 2014

Billions of dollars

Government
taxes and 
duties 

$83

Capital and 
exploration
expenditures 

$39

Worldwide total

$196

Shareholder 
distributions 

$24

Production,
manufacturing 
and office expenses 

$50

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

5

The Outlook for Energy

The Outlook for Energy

World liquids supply by type

2040 global demand by fuel

The coming decades are poised for a dramatic step in human 
progress. Economic growth in China, India and other non-
OECD1 countries will enable some 3 billion people to enter the 
middle class — the largest collective increase in living standards 
in history. This transition will increase demand for food, travel, 
electricity, housing, schools, hospitals and businesses to meet 
countless needs.

Ongoing progress results in the dual challenge of meeting 
the world’s energy needs while managing the environmental 
effects — including climate change — of energy use. The good 
news is that practical options to meet people’s needs for reli-
able, affordable and cleaner energy continue to expand.

We update our long-term energy outlook each year — taking 
into account the most up-to-date demographic, economic  
and technological information available. This analysis serves 
as a foundation for our long-term business strategies and 
investments. By sharing our Outlook for Energy with the pub-
lic, we hope to broaden that understanding among individuals, 
businesses and governments. Energy matters to everyone, and 
we all play a role in shaping its future.

The following are highlights from this year’s Outlook  
for Energy:

•  The global population is projected to rise to 9 billion in 

2040, as global economic output more than doubles. Energy 
demand will increase about 35 percent, even with signif-
icant efficiency gains. Essentially all the growth in energy 
demand will come from developing countries.

•  Oil is expected to remain the world’s primary energy source, 
with demand rising by almost 30 percent, driven largely by 
growth in commercial transportation requirements and the 
chemical industry’s need for feedstock. At the same time, 
natural gas is expected to see demand growth of about  
65 percent, rising to second place in the overall energy mix, 
as a wide range of consumers choose natural gas for its 
affordability, reliability, versatility and low emissions.

Million oil-equivalent barrels per day

Quadrillion BTUs

120

80

40

0

Biofuels
Other

Natural gas liquids

Tight oil

Oil sands

Deepwater

New conventional crude
and condensate

Developed
conventional crude 
and condensate

250

200

150

100

50

0

0.8%

Average annual
growth rate

2010

1.6%

0.1%

35%

global energy
demand increase
from 2010 to 2040

0.5%

2.3%

5.8%

1.8%

2000                        2020                        2040

Oil

Gas

Coal Biomass Nuclear Solar/
wind/
biofuels

Hydro/
geo

•  Oil and gas are likely to meet about 65 percent of the global 
energy demand growth to 2040. At that time, unconven-
tional supplies enabled by technology are expected to 
account for 35 percent of global gas production and about 
45 percent of global liquids production.

•  New development of traditional conventional oil deposits is 
expected to rise significantly, but not quite enough to offset 
declines in developed fields, as seen in the chart above.

•  From 2010 to 2040, global electricity demand is projected 
to increase by about 85 percent, as living standards rise, 
economies expand and the electrification of society contin-
ues. The demand for fuel to produce that electricity is pro-
jected to rise by only about 50 percent, reflecting improved 

efficiency in power generation and transmission. By 2040, 
more than 70 percent of the world’s electricity is likely to 
come from natural gas, nuclear and renewable energies.

•  We expect that most every nation will seek to curb CO2 

emissions without harming the prospects of greater pros-
perity for its own citizens. By improving energy efficiency 
and reducing the CO2 content across the energy mix, we 
anticipate global energy-related CO2 emissions will rise 
by about 25 percent from 2010 to 2030, and then decline 
approximately 5 percent to 2040.

Outlook for Energy: A View to 2040

1Refer to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
website (oecd.org) for a listing of its members.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

6

Sustainability and engagement

Sustainability

Engaging with our stakeholders

ExxonMobil is committed to addressing the challenge of sustainable development — 
balancing economic growth, social development and environmental protection so future 
generations are not compromised by actions taken today. By designing our approach 
to corporate citizenship around six key focus areas, we contribute to society’s broader 
sustainability objectives and manage the impact of our operations on local economies, 
societies and the environment.

For a company of our size, building and maintaining relationships with a diverse group of 
stakeholders are both priorities and ongoing challenges. Many people, organizations and 
communities are impacted directly by, and have a direct impact on, our business. Energy issues 
are complex, and our stakeholders represent multiple viewpoints. The discussions we undertake 
with our stakeholders help us understand a variety of perspectives. Regular stakeholder engage-
ment helps us continue to improve our company and remain a responsible corporate citizen.

c i a l  

o

  S

S a f e t y, health and
t h e   workplace

nity and
cial impact

u
m
m
o
C

o
s

Sustainability

M

a

n

c

a

h

g

a

n

i

n

g

e

g

c

l
i

m

r
i
s

k

s

a

t

e

E

n

viron

ment

Environmen t a l
performan c e

  C

o

r

p

o

r

a

t

e

g

o

v

e

r

n

a

n

c

e

t
n
e
m
p

n
ai
h

nt
e
m

L ocal develo
ply c
and sup
manage

We engage our stakeholders using a variety of mechanisms, including community meetings,  
the Internet and social media, corporate publications, and one-on-one and group discussions, 
among others. We include examples of stakeholder engagement throughout this report.  
Our stakeholders, and topics in which each is interested, include:

Employees 

•  Benefits; diversity; development 
opportunities; safety, health  
and wellness

Nongovernmental 
organizations 

•  Biodiversity; climate change; human rights

Customers 

•  Product sustainability; supply chain 

management; greenhouse gas emissions

Governments

•  Taxes; local supplier development; job 
creation; impact assessments; ethics; 
education; governance practices

Suppliers 

•  Expanding local supply network;  

supplier diversity

Communities 

•  Community development; human rights; 

economic development; grievances

Shareholders

•  Governance practices; board composition; 

policy engagement; sustainability

 E

c
o
n
o
m
i
c

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
External Citizenship Advisory Panel

External Citizenship  
Advisory Panel

ExxonMobil has engaged an External Citizenship Advisory 
Panel (ECAP) since 2009 to provide an annual, independent 
review of the company’s corporate citizenship activities, 
including this report. The ECAP members are experts in social 
and environmental topics and are leading academics, non-
governmental organization (NGO) representatives and former 
government employees. Each year, the ECAP reviews an early 
draft of this report and provides feedback, which we evaluate 
and incorporate into the report as appropriate. To view the 
ECAP’s statement on the 2014 report, please see our website.

2014 ECAP statement

Based on the panelists’ feedback on the 2013 report, we have 
made strides in this year’s report to provide additional details 
or metrics in particular areas. Three such examples follow.

“The candid recognition of challenges helps to enhance the 
report’s credibility with stakeholders. We encourage the 
company to continue developing content in future years to 
provide more granular examples of where the company has 
set goals for itself and met the goal, or explain challenges 
the company is working through to meet the goal.”

On the following pages, we include a candid discussion with 
Vice President of Public and Government Affairs Ken Cohen on 
key sustainability issues and challenges, including a response 
about the company’s approach to setting goals. We have also 
explained more clearly in this year’s chapter on managing  
climate change risks (beginning on page 33) why we do not set 
corporate-wide energy efficiency or greenhouse gas  
emission goals, but rather have targets at the facility- or  
business unit-level. 

“We would like to see the company go one step further 
in future reports to provide more transparency and clarity 
about its community engagement practices and the topics 
being discussed, and the company ’s response to these. For 
example, what are the specific concerns being raised; are 
systematic processes in place to ensure an inclusive and safe 
process for women and underprivileged community mem-
bers to participate in the engagement exercise; are griev-
ance mechanisms available; and where does the company 
disagree with community stakeholders?”

In response to this feedback, we have included a discussion on 
the grievance management mechanisms we utilize in Papua 
New Guinea (beginning on page 54) and provided metrics in 
several examples throughout the report to put this topic into 
greater context. In addition, we have included several com-
munity engagement examples in the community and social 
impact chapter (beginning on page 43), including initiatives in 
Cameroon, Canada and Indonesia. We will strive to continue 
to include these types of community engagement references 
in future reports. 

“We acknowledge that standards-based human rights 
reporting lags behind environmental metrics across all 
sectors. But by incorporating the same approaches it uses 
for environmental and safety reporting, ExxonMobil has the 
opportunity to be among the leading companies in the area 
of reporting about its human rights activities as well.”

We recognize the collection and disclosure of human rights 
metrics is an ongoing challenge and are working to develop 
additional meaningful metrics. In this report, we disclose 
grievance management mechanism metrics on pages 47 and 
55. We have also begun to explore this issue as it relates to 
our supply chain, and we completed phase two of our pilot 
supplier human rights risk assessment program.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

8

Mark Cohen
Professor of Management  
and Law
Vanderbilt University Owen
Graduate School of Management

Sarah Labowitz
Co-director of Center for  
Business and Human Rights
New York University Stern  
School of Business

Frank Loy
Former Under Secretary of  
State for Global Affairs
U.S. Department of State

Jane Nelson
Director of Corporate  
Responsibility Initiative
Harvard University Kennedy 
School of Government

Salil Tripathi
Director of Emerging Issues
Institute for Human Rights  
and Business

Key sustainability issues  
and challenges

Our stakeholders are increasingly interested in how we are 
addressing sustainability challenges in our operations. Ken 
Cohen, ExxonMobil’s vice president of public and government 
affairs, answers some of the most frequently asked stakeholder 
questions below. 

How do you respond to those advocating divestment from 
companies involved in producing fossil fuels? 

Climate change is a significant risk management challenge 
facing society today. Much is currently being done, but we 
need to continue to do more, especially in the areas of energy 
efficiency and new technology.  

At ExxonMobil, we are interested in solutions, not symbolism. 
We are helping to meet the challenge by supplying cleaner- 
burning natural gas, which has contributed to reducing  
U.S. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to 1990s levels; develop-
ing emissions-reducing technologies; encouraging energy  
efficiency; and pursuing research with our university  
partners to advance the search for solutions.

The Lac Megantic accident in Canada seems to show that 
shipping crude by rail is dangerous. Why do you continue to 
move crude by rail? 

Lac Megantic was a tragic accident and a reminder that no 
industrial activity is risk-free. While this particular incident did 
not involve ExxonMobil, it does show that rail transport has 
risks — and no matter how small, these risks can have terrible 
consequences. Rail is a critical part of the North American 
energy infrastructure, connecting areas of new crude oil 
production that are not served by pipelines to the marketplace. 
Rail transport of liquids has a record of safety and efficiency 
going back many decades, but the risks do require careful 
management and mitigation. 

In planning our own operations, ExxonMobil conducts exten-
sive and comprehensive risk analysis assessments on every 

Key sustainability issues and challenges

segment of our logistics system, including rail transportation 
of crude oil and petroleum products. Those assessments 
guide ExxonMobil’s transportation decisions and man-
agement of the risks associated with the transport of such 
materials. Rail transportation safety requires managing rail 
maintenance, train operations, car integrity and emergency 
response. We are focused on the areas we can manage and 
have taken several steps to ensure safe rail transportation of 
our products, including:

•  The design, construction and leasing of rail cars that meet 

the highest safety standards in the industry;

•  Robust management processes to ensure appropriate 
inspections and maintenance of our rail car fleet; and

•  Engagement with the railroads through industry trade asso-
ciations and work groups to share best practices in safety 
management programs; ensure appropriate emergency 
response planning; and implement programs to support an 
effective response to any incident.

Oil and natural gas production is on the rise worldwide. 
Why must you seek more sources in extreme locations  
like the Arctic?  

Our industry has been producing oil and natural gas in the 
Arctic region for nearly a century. Continuing development is 
important to meeting the world’s growing energy needs and 
will help alleviate poverty, raise living standards and increase 
economic opportunity for millions of people around the world.

The process of safely finding, producing and marketing oil 
and natural gas can take decades, and we are careful never 
to progress faster than our technology will safely allow. With 
recent technological advances in offshore drilling, ice manage-
ment and oil spill prevention, we are capable of developing 
Arctic resources safely and responsibly. Doing so today will 
enable us to meet the world’s economic and energy security 
needs tomorrow.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

9

Ken Cohen has worldwide responsibility for the company ’s public policy, 
government relations, communications, media relations and corporate citizenship 
activities. Ken authors our Perspectives blog, laying out some of the energy 
challenges we face and encouraging active discourse about their solutions.

How are you managing your water use and water quality in 
communities where you are conducting hydraulic fracturing?

The amount of water needed to hydraulically fracture a 
typical shale gas well ranges from 3–4 million gallons, but it 
is important to put that number into perspective. For example, 
natural gas production in Texas accounts for only 1 percent of 
overall water use as compared with other industries, such as 
agriculture. Additionally, according to a recent study by the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Labora-
tory, shale gas production uses about 10 times less water than 
is used for coal production, and 1,000 times less water than is 
used for fuel ethanol or biodiesel production. In Texas, research-
ers concluded that fracking for natural gas actually saves water 
compared with other fuels used to produce electricity.

But that does not mean we should not work hard to reduce 
our water use. We understand the necessity to conserve water 
and, in fact, our global net freshwater consumption decreased 
by 15 percent between 2007 and 2014. 

 
Key sustainability issues and challenges

Why doesn’t your company acknowledge the link between  
the use of hydraulic fracturing injection wells and earthquakes? 

You say you support a carbon tax, but how are you actively 
advocating for this policy?

Why don’t you set environmental goals, such as GHG  
emissions or flaring targets? 

ExxonMobil recognizes that no matter the cause — natural 
or human induced — local communities and residents have 
concerns about seismic activity in their area. In some instances, 
seismic activity has been associated with the long-term injection 
of wastewater from oil and gas operations into deep under-
ground disposal wells.

When governments are considering policy options, we advo-
cate an approach that ensures a uniform and predictable cost 
of carbon; allows market prices to drive solutions; maximizes 
transparency to stakeholders; reduces administrative com-
plexity; promotes global participation; and is easily adjusted to 
future developments in climate science and policy impacts.

ExxonMobil signed on to a U.S. refining industry 10-year 
objective in 2002, as part of an initiative with the American 
Petroleum Institute, to improve energy efficiency by 10 percent 
over 10 years. We were the only signatory to meet the target 
and, in fact, expanded the goal to include our global refining 
and chemical manufacturing operations. 

As a leader in the development and production of unconven-
tional resources, we believe it is important to gain a better 
understanding of all types and sources of seismic activity. As 
discussed on page 28, we are working with experts both inside 
and outside the company to improve our scientific under-
standing of the risks and how they can best be mitigated.  

We continue to believe a revenue-neutral carbon tax is better 
able to accommodate these key criteria than cap-and-trade 
regimes. We engage stakeholders directly and through trade 
organizations around the world to encourage such sound pol-
icy options. For more details, please see the managing climate 
change risks chapter, beginning on page 33. 

What are you doing to resolve issues resulting in local 
fracking bans?

There is a lot of misinformation about hydraulic fracturing. We 
believe those of us in the industry can help alleviate concerns  
by explaining — forthrightly and in terms that everyone can 
understand — what we do and how we do it safely. We engage 
with local communities in several ways, including: providing 
speakers and technical experts for community events; delivering 
regular operational updates to inform local officials and com-
munity leaders of planned activity; and hosting open houses to 
allow community members to meet with our teams and learn 
more about our operations in their area.

We also post our company name and contact information, 
along with the appropriate safety signage, at all of our operat-
ing sites, and we address inquiries in a timely manner. Exam-
ples of community concerns that we have addressed include:

•  Limiting truck traffic during school transit hours and  

through neighborhoods;

•  Using sound mitigation technology at compressor stations 

and around active drilling sites; and

•  Working with conservation organizations on site restoration 
projects, including reintroducing native plant life and trees.

How can you defend continuing production of oil and 
natural gas when its use is contributing to climate change? 
Although natural gas is cleaner-burning than coal,  
won’t it displace renewables and lead to higher GHG  
emissions overall?

Society continues to face the dual challenge of expanding 
energy supplies to support economic growth and improve liv-
ing standards, while simultaneously addressing the risks posed 
by climate change. Continued production of hydrocarbons 
is essential to meeting growing energy demand worldwide, 
and in preventing consumers — especially those in the least 
developed and most vulnerable economies — from themselves 
becoming stranded in the global pursuit of higher living stan-
dards and greater economic opportunity.

ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy and all credible forecasts, 
including that of the International Energy Agency, predict 
carbon-based fuels will continue to meet about three-quarters 
of global energy needs through 2040. For more details, please 
see the managing climate change risks chapter, beginning on 
page 33, and our Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks 
report that was released in March 2014. 

         Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

10

All of our businesses and individual facilities set a wide array 
of environmental goals and targets each year. Each business is 
responsible for operational integrity-related metrics, and they 
are closely stewarded. While we do not set corporate-wide 
environmental targets, we do indeed have environmental 
goals, which are tailored locally to drive significant improve-
ments in environmental performance.

We believe this rigorous bottom-up approach is a more effec-
tive way to drive efficiency improvement, including reductions in 
GHG emissions, than simply setting high-level corporate targets. 
We also believe continuing to use this approach will yield further 
improvements in all sectors of our business. 

Why don’t you provide more social metrics in your report?

We are committed to understanding the impacts of our social 
investments on local communities. We are currently working in 
close collaboration with many of our partners to design more 
robust measurement and evaluation plans and enhance their 
measurement capacity.

In 2012–2013, for example, we partnered with the United 
Nations Foundation to produce A Roadmap for Promot-
ing Women’s Economic Empowerment. This report, which 
summarized the findings of 18 research studies, identified the 
most effective interventions that directly advance a woman’s 
economic standing over the long term, not just those that have 
attracted the greatest number of participants.

ExxonMobil Perspectives blog

 
Safety, health and 
the workplace

A worker at our Fawley integrated refining, 
chemical and lubricant manufacturing complex  
in the United Kingdom. We are relentless in our 
pursuit of safety so every employee and contractor 
comes home from work each day safe and healthy.

We are invested in our employees’ futures —  
working every day to ensure Nobody Gets Hurt.  
The continued success of our company is embedded 
in our commitment to health and safety and our 
dedication to the development of our workforce.

 50%

reduction in lost-time injuries and illnesses rate for 
employees and contractors over the past 10 years

“A lot of people look at Nobody Gets Hurt as simply 
a statement of desired results. While Nobody Gets 
Hurt does accurately reflect the desired results we 
are looking for, it is so much more in that it reflects 
our safety culture at its deepest core. Nobody Gets 
Hurt is an expressed value that demonstrates  
ExxonMobil’s care and commitment to the com-
munities in which we work and the families of the 
workers in our operations.”

 — Jack Toellner, P.E., CSP 
Senior safety consultant

Construction personnel spelling out Nobody Gets Hurt at our Houston campus.

Safety

Safety is more than just a priority at ExxonMobil — it is a core 
value and an integral part of our culture. Protecting the safety 
and health of our workforce is fundamental to our business. 
We are relentless in our pursuit of safety so every employee 
and contractor comes home from work each day safe and 
healthy. This commitment also extends to members of the 
communities where we operate. We will never stop working 
toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt.

All of our employees and third-party contractors have the 
responsibility to work safely, regardless of job function. We take 
a disciplined approach to safety, grounded in the foundation of 
our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS). OIMS 
is embedded in our everyday work processes at all levels, and 
we continuously work to improve our own performance. An 
important element of OIMS is assessment of our work pro-
cesses and risk management actions. An independent team of 
qualified professionals regularly audits our processes and shares 
best practices and lessons learned across the company. For 
more information about OIMS, see page 24.

Although the number is declining, safety incidents and near-
misses do occur. To prevent serious injuries, there is an elevated 
focus on “life-saving” practices for work activities that have 
the potential for serious injuries if not done properly. Examples 
include lifting heavy loads, operating equipment and working 
with electrical power or at elevated heights.

When a safety incident or near-miss does occur, we investigate 
the incident and all potential outcomes and evaluate barri-
ers required to avoid future occurrences. This analysis helps 
improve our work processes and practices in our pursuit of 
operational excellence. 

As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we 
look at leading indicators that could help with risk preven-
tion and mitigation to reduce incidents further. These leading 
indicators will allow for a closer analysis of incidents with 
potentially severe consequences and will contribute to the 
reinforcement of leadership and organizational behaviors con-
sistent with our relentless pursuit of operational excellence.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

12

Safety, health and the workplace 
Lost-time incident rate1

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

“We have a relentless focus on eliminating high potential 
consequence events  —  it’s not just about what happened, 
but what could have happened and how do we best ensure 
that it never does.” 

0.30

0.25

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

0

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011 2012 2013 2014

ExxonMobil workforce

American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmark

Total recordable incident rate2

Incidents per 200,000 work hours

1.0

0.9

0.8

0.7

0.6

0.5

0.4

0.3

0.2

0.1

0

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011 2012 2013 2014

ExxonMobil workforce

American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum
industry workforce benchmark

1,2Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on 
   information available at the time of publication. Workforce includes 
   employees and contractors.    

Bob Bailes 
Downstream and Chemical 
safety, security, health and 
environment manager

Personnel safety
Every ExxonMobil employee has a common responsibility in 
every assignment we undertake: identify, assess and mitigate 
the risks associated with our operations. We continued to 
work toward our goal of Nobody Gets Hurt in 2014. When 
compared with 2013, our workforce lost-time incident rate 
decreased by 30 percent. Over the past 10 years, we have 
reduced this rate by 50 percent. However, we know we still 
have work to do to reach our goal.

We deeply regret that three contractors were fatally injured 
in three separate incidents related to ExxonMobil operations 
in 2014. Two of the incidents were related to working with 
wellhead and drilling equipment, and the third occurred at a 
construction site. We thoroughly investigated these and all 
incidents to learn how to prevent similar incidents in the future, 
and then enhanced our work practices and facilities accord-
ingly. We have implemented processes to look at all incidents, 
even those with no injuries, to understand the potential of the 
incident. By applying this process, we seek to learn from any 
incident with the potential for a more serious outcome. This 
process is in line with studies we have conducted to target 
serious injuries, in an effort to eliminate any high-potential 
consequence event. We will relentlessly pursue this goal until 
we achieve our stated vision of Nobody Gets Hurt. We broadly 
share the results of our findings with our organization, so our 
employees and contractors can learn how to better protect 
themselves and their coworkers. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

13

As part of our operations-wide dedication to safety, we strive 
for a partnership between all workers, including third-party 
suppliers and contractors. Every day, our contractors take part 
in safety training and safety meetings alongside our employ-
ees. For example, since we started our Major Projects Group 
in Western Canada, we have conducted safety orientations 
for more than 72,000 people, ensuring the vision of Nobody 
Gets Hurt extends to everyone. A key element in our strategy 
for our contractors is to enhance their leadership practices 
and safety management systems. Since 2000, we have con-
ducted annual safety leadership forums with our major project 
contractors, with the focus on a partnership that leads to an 
injury-free workplace. In 2014, ExxonMobil Development 
Company hosted a contractor safety forum for approximately 
70 contract companies with the theme of Safety Partnerships 
and Culture of Caring.

Our operations in LaBarge, Wyoming, passed a safety mile-
stone in December 2014, completing two full years without 
a recordable injury across all work groups and functions. This 
accomplishment represents more than 1.6 million safe work 
hours and is the safest-ever period for this location. This suc-
cess was achieved through clear alignment on safety expec-
tations, commitment by the workforce and visible leadership 
engagement. Another key aspect of this success was an “our 
house” mindset that established a sense of family and owner-
ship within the work teams. This sense of family translates into 
a culture where our workers are ensuring that everyone goes 
home in the same condition as they came to work. 

“Excellence in safety performance is achieved through 
strong leadership, formal and informal, at all levels in the 
organization, driving effective management system prac-
tices and nurturing a supportive culture.”

Jim Seale
Upstream safety, security, health 
and environment manager

Safety, health and the workplace 
Up Close:
Demonstrating safety 
leadership

We are proud of our culture of safety, and we strive to be a 
global safety leader not only in our industry but among all 
companies worldwide. In 2014, ExxonMobil and our affiliates 
around the world received the following honors and awards 
for our commitment to safety:

•  The Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Associ-
ation (APPEA) honored ExxonMobil Australia with its 2014 
Safety Excellence Award for ExxonMobil Australia’s record 
year in 2013, achieving zero lost-time injuries across all 
operations in the country. ExxonMobil Australia achieved this 
safety record in the midst of the completion of the Kipper 
Tuna Turrum project, which saw a new offshore production 
facility brought online. 

•  ExxonMobil Colombia was the recipient of the 2013 

Emerald Cross Award from the Colombia Safety Council in 
February 2014. ExxonMobil received 99.4 out of 100 points 
on safety, health and environmental performance, the top 
score in Colombia during 2013. 

•  ExxonMobil received three Construction Industry Safety 

Excellence awards from the Construction Users Roundtable 
(CURT) in 2014. These awards recognized Downstream 
projects in the United States and Saudi Arabia. This marks 
the first time a company has won three CURT awards in the 
same year.

•  Mobil Oil Nigeria received the 2014 award for best health, 
safety and environmental standards in West Africa from 
Capital Finance International. The panel of judges recognized 
Mobil Oil Nigeria for “always placing health, safety and envi-
ronmental concerns at the heart of its operating strategy.”

Though we have had many safety accomplishments, we 
continue to look for ways to improve so we can meet our goal 
of Nobody Gets Hurt. For example, our Downstream business 
analyzed safety data from projects over a five-year period and 
noticed the majority of incidents occurred during the final 20 
percent of a construction project. As a result, we developed 
the “Finish Strong” program to help project management 
teams understand the dynamics associated with the end of a 
project, as well as communicate tips that have helped other 
teams maintain their safety focus throughout the life of a 
project. This focus has resulted in a strong improvement in 
safety performance. For example, in 2010, up to 80 percent of 
safety incidents occurred near the end of a project. In 2013, 
we reduced this number to approximately 10 percent and 
achieved zero in 2014.  

Process safety
Our position as a safety leader includes diligent management of 
process safety: equipment, procedures and training that prevent 

the uncontrolled release of hydrocarbons and hazardous sub-
stances. Our goal is to prevent incidents with the potential for 
serious injuries or fatalities, widespread environmental impact 
or property damage. To that end, we employ multiple layers of 
protection, or barriers, to help prevent a loss of containment, as 
illustrated in the graphic on the following page.

We subscribe to the American Petroleum Institute (API) Rec-
ommended Practice 754 and the International Association of 
Oil & Gas Producers No. 456, which are industry standards. 
These standards define process safety indicators and use a 
process safety incident triangle to represent events from Tier 1 
through Tier 4. Tiers 1 and 2 include incidents resulting in a loss 
of primary containment. According to the API, loss of primary 
containment is defined as an unplanned or uncontrolled release 
of any material from primary containment, including nontoxic 
and nonflammable materials. Tiers 3 and 4 represent near-
misses and leading performance measures such as on-time 
maintenance performance. In 2014, we had 65 Tier 1 process 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

14

Richard Owen of ExxonMobil Australia (right) receives the 2014 
Safety Excellence Award from APPEA Vice Chairman Warren Ford at 
the APPEA Conference in Perth, Australia.

safety events. Although this is slightly higher than in 2013, our 
focus on process safety remains high, with a continued empha-
sis on barrier health and effective risk discovery and mitigation.

Collaborating with our peers and industry associations on pro-
cess safety is a company priority. We serve on industry work 
groups and initiatives focused on improving safety. For exam-
ple, we are actively engaged in the Advancing Process Safety 
Initiative, a collaborative effort between the American Fuel 
and Petrochemical Manufacturers and the API, representing 
nearly all of the U.S. refining capacity. This initiative is focused 
on improving process safety performance across the industry 
by sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety 
events, hazard identification and performance metrics, and  
industry-proven practices. This effort recognizes that when  
a significant process safety event occurs at any site, it affects 
everyone in the industry by eroding stakeholder trust.  

Safety, health and the workplaceLayers of protection: effective barrier implementation through OIMS

Layers of protection help reduce risk. OIMS execution ensures effective barriers are intact.

Equipment

Processes

People

Initiating
events

Undesired
consequences

ExxonMobil is also engaging with railroads that are transport-
ing our products to understand the capabilities of all involved 
entities and find areas where we can assist. Through this 
engagement, we believe the proper equipment, procedures 
and people are in place to react to any potential emergency 
situation. We will continue to work with our industry peers and 
railroads to ensure safe transport of oil products.

Growth in crude oil transported 
by rail, 2008–20143

Thousands of carloads

OIMS

Product safety and responsibility
As part of product stewardship, we assess the safety, health 
and environmental aspects of our products, as well as compli-
ance with product safety legislation for all intended markets. 
Our rigorous Product Stewardship Information Management 
System applies common global processes and computer  
systems to capture and communicate information on the  
safe handling, transport, use and disposal of our products,  
as well as emergency contact information. It also ensures  
compliance with regulations in more than 150 countries.  
Due to the evolving nature of regulatory requirements, we 
continually monitor developments to ensure our products 
comply with regulations, including:

•  United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classifica-

tion and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS);

•  Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of 

Chemicals (REACH); 

•  United Nations Strategic Approach to International Chemi-

cals Management (SAICM); and

•  Clean fuel standards in the United States and the  

European Union.

Product transport by rail
Our stakeholders have been increasingly interested in the 
industry ’s management of safe product transport by rail. In 
the North American market, ExxonMobil manages one of 
the largest shipper fleets in our industry to move our plastics, 
chemicals, lubricants and fuels products to our customers. 
Over the past five years, the industry has seen a significant 
increase in the utilization of rail transport for crude oil, 
primarily due to new unconventional production sources. 
In 2015, ExxonMobil will start up a new joint venture crude 
rail terminal in Edmonton, Alberta, which will ship Western 
Canadian crude to our U.S. Gulf Coast and midcontinent 
refineries. We have comprehensive risk management plans in 
place to ensure rail transportation of all products is managed 
in the safest manner. These plans address rail car design and 
loading and unloading procedures to ensure safe transit. 

Safe transport by rail is a shared accountability, covering rail 
maintenance, train operations, car integrity and emergency 
response. The API and Association of American Railroads joint 
working group works to ensure all entities — suppliers, cus-
tomers, railroads and local emergency responders — have the 
resources and training necessary to prevent, and when nec-
essary, respond effectively to any potential emergency events. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

15

500

400

300

200

100

0

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

U.S.

Canada

32014 data are based on preliminary information available at the time of    
 publication. Data provided by API and represent carloads across the industry.  

Emergency preparedness  
and response

The ability to respond to emergencies promptly is a critical 
aspect of our business. Effective emergency preparedness and 
response depends on competent response teams. To develop 
and practice emergency response strategies and complement 
on-site responders, we establish strategic Emergency Support 
Groups (ESGs) around the world, consisting of a wide range 
of ExxonMobil employees. We routinely train ESG members 
on a range of possible scenarios, including simulated spills, 

Safety, health and the workplace 
fires, explosions, natural disasters and security incidents. In 
2014, nearly 500 employees participated in more than 40 ESG 
training sessions.

Our emergency preparedness and response model builds on a 
foundation of rapid and comprehensive response. Regardless 
of the size of an event, each ExxonMobil facility and business 
unit has access to a wide array of trained responders, including 
our Regional Response Teams (RRTs). Our three RRTs — North 
America; Europe, Africa and Middle East; and Asia Pacific — 
comprise approximately 500 ExxonMobil personnel trained on 
one consistent system with common roles and responsibilities. 
They provide rapid professional support when needed. 

Workplace security

Ensuring the security of our people, physical assets and intel-
lectual property is deeply embedded in our daily operations. 
We have developed consistent worldwide security practices 
and have trained site-security contacts to meet challenges in 

the diverse locations where we do business. Each new facility 
goes through a security analysis that takes into account poten-
tial risks, the application of countermeasures, relationships  
with communities and compliance with applicable laws.  

Our security personnel regularly participate in government and 
industry forums to enhance our established risk-management 
methodologies, threat-assessment capabilities and technical 
security applications. In higher-threat locations, we monitor 
local conditions and maintain detailed security preparedness 
plans. For more on security and human rights, see page 44.

We continue to protect our business against the growing risk of 
cyberattacks, which can potentially affect our data, facilities and 
ongoing operations. On average, our cybersecurity screening 
programs block more than 70 million emails, 140 million Inter-
net access attempts and 150,000 other potentially malicious 
actions each month. We have an ongoing awareness program 
to reinforce safe computing behaviors with our workforce 
through periodic communications and mock email phishing 
tests. In 2014, 100 percent of our employees and contractors 

completed Web-based cybersecurity training on how to iden-
tify and respond to potential cybersecurity risks.

Health and wellness

ExxonMobil cares about the health and well-being of our 
employees and their families. We offer a variety of programs 
ranging from infectious disease prevention to help with living 
a healthier life. Being a global company, an ongoing challenge 
is the range of health concerns prevalent in the different loca-
tions in which we work. Some locations expose our workforce 
and their families to a higher risk of infectious disease, so we 
have established a structured program for infectious disease 
control to monitor and address related issues. As part of this 
program, we developed a multiyear plan that focuses on 
implementing programs in locations with a significant threat of 
malaria and other vector-borne diseases, infectious outbreaks, 
tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. For more information about how 
we work to keep our employees and communities safe from 
these infectious diseases, see our case study on page 20.

Up Close:
Emergency response training

In 2014, 120 members of the Europe, Africa and Middle East 
RRT participated in a three-day event in Hampshire, United 
Kingdom. The exercise involved a tanker berthed at a refinery 
marine terminal. In the scenario, the offloading pipe from the 
tanker was ruptured, and oil was released into the water. While 
the refinery team dealt with securing the jetty, the RRT worked 
with representatives of the Port, Coastguard and Environment 
Agency to contain and clean up the hypothetical spill.

The team called upon a range of training and technical inno-
vations, including handheld survey tools for beach assessment 
and an unmanned aerial vehicle to take photographs and video. 
The team worked closely with Oil Spill Response Ltd., based 

in Southampton, to deploy emergency response equipment, 
including containment booms. Our public and government 
affairs employees responded to the challenge of engaging with 
local residents who would have been directly affected by such 
an oil spill, as well as handling the resulting media impact. They 
used on-demand communications software to manage incom-
ing inquiries and establish an incident website for the exercise.

In September 2014, the North America RRT also held a 
three-day exercise in Valdez, Alaska, involving more than 
100 ExxonMobil and SeaRiver personnel and nearly 200 
representatives from regulatory agencies, tribes, communities 
and response contractors. The exercise involved a simulated 
tanker spill of 200,000 barrels of oil and provided an invaluable 
opportunity to strengthen existing relationships in Valdez, as 
well as build new ones.

“We put a lot into this year’s exercise in order to stretch the 
team and make use of the range of equipment and technol-
ogies we have at hand. The teams performed well, and we 
continue to build on our strengths and make improvements 
to our operations.”

Mark Wentworth
Emergency preparedness  
and response adviser

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

16

Safety, health and the workplaceOur workplace HIV/AIDS program in Africa, StopAIDS, com-
bines educational programs with access to community-based 
care and treatment for those affected by HIV. ExxonMobil 
does not test for HIV, nor is HIV status a factor in determin-
ing an employee’s ability to work. However, ExxonMobil 
encourages voluntary counseling and testing conducted by 
community partners. 

ExxonMobil also invests in preventive health care to reduce 
health care costs by providing resources to better manage 
chronic conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, respira-
tory ailments and depression. ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health 
is our U.S.-based preventive health and wellness program.

Outside the United States, we are piloting culturally relevant 
programs within the context of different health care systems, 
health needs and available resources in the countries where 
we have offices and operations. Currently, our pilot programs 
are in Argentina, Malaysia, Nigeria and the United Kingdom. 

Workforce

We are committed to our employees’ professional development 
and supporting their career goals. We seek to foster a diverse 
workforce of highly talented individuals committed to achieving 
our business priorities. We use a long-term, career-oriented 
approach that includes recruiting outstanding talent and devel-
oping individuals by providing them the opportunity to complete 
a wide range of assignments. Our employee culture is grounded 
in a shared commitment to safety, integrity, high-quality work 
and good corporate citizenship. 

Employment practices and policies
ExxonMobil has operations around the world. The diversity 
of ideas, perspectives, skills, knowledge and cultures across 
our company facilitates innovation and is a key competitive 
advantage. Through a range of programs, activities and 
investments, we strive to create and maintain a diverse work-
force representative of the numerous geographies where we 
do business. 

Up Close:
ExxonMobil’s Culture of Health

At ExxonMobil, a focus on employee health is a priority. Our U.S. 
Culture of Health (CoH) program is a sound, evidence-based 
program designed to support the health of our employees and 
reduce health care costs.

CoH features multiple components to promote wellness and 
healthy living: personal health assessments, health screenings, 

health coaching and worksite educational activities. These 
activities help employees address wellness issues such as 
physical activity, nutrition, stress and disease prevention. Each 
year, individuals can earn cash incentives and gain useful health 
information by completing certain components of the program. 
This program is available to all ExxonMobil U.S. employees 
and family members (age 18 and older) eligible to enroll in 
an ExxonMobil Medical Plan. Retirees who are enrolled in an 
ExxonMobil Medical Plan are also eligible to participate.

Andrew Hanna, a sales account manager based in our Fairfax, 
Virginia, office, became involved in the CoH program in his first 
year at ExxonMobil, as he experienced challenges maintaining 
a healthy lifestyle. Moving to a new city, learning a new job 
and spending most of his time in the office all contributed to 
unhealthy habits. Through participation in CoH and lifestyle 
coaching, Andrew’s main health objectives became nutrition 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

17

Our Global Diversity Framework is the foundation for our 
long-term, career-oriented approach to employment, with 
three interrelated objectives:  

•  Attract, develop and retain a premier, diverse workforce 
from the broadest possible pool to meet our business  
needs worldwide;  

•  Actively foster a productive work environment where indi-

vidual and cultural differences are respected and valued, and 
where all employees are encouraged to contribute fully to 
the achievement of superior business results; and 

•  Identify and develop leadership capabilities to excel in a 

variety of international and cultural environments. 

Our Standards of Business Conduct govern all aspects of our 
employment, including recruitment, hiring, work assignments, 
promotions, transfers, terminations, wage and salary admin-
istration, and selection for training. The Standards support 
our commitment to equal employment opportunities, prohibit 

and exercise. He transitioned from evening to morning work-
outs, and received help developing weekly grocery lists of 
nutritious foods to bring to work.

“I am working with my health coach to achieve these goals 
and find ways to improve my nutrition, exercise and lifestyle. 
Having a personal health coach who is dedicated to helping 
me achieve my health goals is a phenomenal resource.”

Andrew Hanna
Sales account manager

Safety, health and the workplaceharassment and discrimination in the workplace, and align 
with applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we 
operate. We strictly prohibit any form of discrimination by or 
toward employees, contractors, suppliers or customers in any 
ExxonMobil working environment.

act of harassment. We employ a comprehensive education, 
training and stewardship program to ensure employees world-
wide understand, implement and follow our anti-harassment 
policy. We provide training on the Standards for new employees 
and offer regular refresher courses to existing employees.

Standards of Business Conduct

Our zero-tolerance policy applies to all forms of discrimina-
tion, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and 
gender identity. In January 2015, we updated our U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity and Harassment in the Workplace 
policies to include sexual orientation and gender identity, 
which is consistent with ExxonMobil’s long-standing practice 
of listing enumerated protected classes as defined by federal 
law. Harassment, even in its most subtle forms, directly con-
flicts with company policy and is not tolerated. Every employee 
is subject to disciplinary action, including termination, for any 

2014 workforce by geographic region4

Thousands of employees

Africa/Middle East

4.1

Canada

6.9

United States

31.3

Total workforce

75.3

Asia Pacific

13.5

Latin America

3.8

Europe

15.7

4Data exclude company-operated retail store employees.

Diversity and inclusion
We support local employee networks globally to foster a work 
environment committed to diversity and inclusion. These include 
the Asian Connection for Excellence (ACE); Black Employee 
Success Team (BEST); Global Organization for the Advancement 
of Latinos (GOAL); People for Respect, Inclusion and Diversity 
of Employees (PRIDE); Veteran Advocacy and Support Team 
(VAST); and Women’s Interest Network (WIN). We also support 
diversity-based education programs and professional organiza-
tions such as the National Society of Black Engineers, Society of 
Women Engineers, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers 
and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, 
among others. We believe these strategic investments in edu-
cation will help build a global, diverse pool of talent to advance 
technologies to help meet future energy needs. For more infor-
mation on our education initiatives, see pages 50 and 51. 

We remain committed to improving the gender balance within 
our company. ExxonMobil promotes leadership opportunities 
for women throughout all aspects of the employment rela-
tionship, including recruitment, hiring, training, promotions, 
transfers, and wage and salary administration.  

Currently, women account for about 28 percent of our world-
wide workforce. In 2014, 40 percent of management and pro-
fessional new hires were women, significantly higher than the 
percentage of women in our broader employee population. In 
the United States, 34 percent of our newly hired engineers were 
female, higher than the U.S. percentage of female engineering 
students. Approximately 17 percent of executive employees 
worldwide are women — an increase of 55 percent over the 
past decade. This increase is a result of continued focus on early 
identification of female management development candidates. 
Notably, approximately 29 percent of our early career stage 
executive employees worldwide are women. For more informa-
tion on how we advance opportunities for women worldwide, 
see pages 49, 52 and 62.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

18

2014 percentage of women 
and minorities by position 
in the United States

Based on U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission reporting

Women

Minorities

16.4%

16.4%

32.3%

26.4%

25.2%

24.7%

Officials and managers

Professionals

Total employees

ExxonMobil husband and wife engineering duo are a mechanical engineer 
and electrical engineer.

Safety, health and the workplace 
2014 percentage of female 
management and professional 
new hires by geographic region

Training expenditures and
number of employees trained5

Worldwide total

Africa/Middle East

Asia Pacific

Europe

Latin America

North America (excluding the United States)

United States

35%

31%

40%

43%

40%

51%

54%

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

participants. To maintain our position as a technical leader  
in the industry, we directed 75 percent of our investment  
toward professional and technical training. Additionally,  
4,540 employees at various levels of the company participated  
in ExxonMobil’s leadership development training programs in 
2014, of which 33 percent were women and 58 percent were 
employees from outside the United States.

$117

“Over my career, I have been fortunate to hold many varied 
assignments, providing the opportunity to grow and develop 
my skills and capabilities. As a leader, the key is to provide an 
environment where everyone can develop to his or her poten-
tial, applying unique capabilities to further the business.” 

$77

$80

$88

$96

61,000

65,000

76,000

87,000

79,000

Sara Ortwein
Upstream Research president

To increase the representation of minorities in our U.S. opera-
tions, our hiring programs include outreach to identify diverse 
candidates. For example, through our technical scholarship 
program, we award scholarships to ExxonMobil minority 
interns to assist them in completing their college degrees. In 
2014, we provided 62 technical scholarships, an increase of 
240 percent over the past 10 years. In the United States, our 
minority representation among management and professional 
new hires was 32 percent in 2014. Further, 35 percent of our 
newly hired engineers were minorities, significantly higher 
than the percentage of U.S. minorities in our broader pop-
ulation. Approximately 13 percent of our U.S. executives in 
2014 were minorities, an increase of 55 percent over the past 
decade. Consistent focus on early identification of minority 
management development candidates has further enhanced 
our bench strength in this area: 23 percent of early career  
U.S. executive employees are minorities.

Retention and engagement
Our global, diverse workforce represents a competitive advan-
tage for ExxonMobil. We retain and develop our employees 

Spending (millions of dollars)

Employees trained (non-unique participants)

52014 increase in expenditures impacted by change in cost reporting practices.  

by providing an environment where personal and professional 
growth is encouraged, and career objectives are developed 
and achieved. During the annual performance assessment and 
development process, all employees have a structured, docu-
mented discussion with their supervisors about work accom-
plishments, training objectives, growth opportunities and 
career interests. This process provides the basis for ongoing 
employee coaching and continual performance improvement. 
The company’s training programs, mentorships and network-
ing opportunities also help employees throughout their time  
at ExxonMobil.

Another aspect of our retention and engagement strategy 
involves providing a robust corporate and technical training 
program. Our major business units spent $117 million on train-
ing employees in 2014, reaching 79,000 non-unique training  

Employee benefits
Our benefits programs are an integral part of a total remuner-
ation package designed to support our long-term business 
objectives, as well as attract, retain and reward the most 
qualified employees. The goal is to be responsive to the needs 
of employees throughout their careers and into retirement.

Ensuring access to affordable health care helps employees 
manage health care issues and reduce related financial con-
cerns. Benefits coverage for spouses is based on legally recog-
nized spousal relationships in each country where we operate.

The funding levels of qualified pension plans comply with 
applicable laws or regulations. Defined benefit pension 
obligations are fully supported by the financial strength of 
ExxonMobil or the respective sponsoring affiliate. The com-
pany provides retirement benefits that support our long-term 
career orientation and business models.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

19

Safety, health and the workplaceCase study – Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line

Case study

Combating infectious 
diseases, both inside and 
beyond our fence line

Mother and child in a President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI)-supported 
community. ExxonMobil partners with PMI in Angola.  
(Photo credit: Lilia Gerberg, PMI)

Keeping our employees safe and healthy is a long-standing 
ExxonMobil commitment. Infectious diseases have no bound-
aries, and our globally mobile workforce can be exposed to 
those with potential for severe health consequences. Our 
corporate-wide Medicine and Occupational Health (MOH) 
organization assists company sites by helping ensure adequate 
resources are in place to protect the health of our workers. In 
addition, ExxonMobil’s commitment to health extends beyond 
our employees to reach the communities where we work. 
ExxonMobil has witnessed firsthand the devastating human 
and economic toll malaria takes on its workforce, families and 
communities. Encouraged by the signing of the Abuja Decla-
ration and the Millennium Development Goals, the company 
took seriously the call for the private sector to join the fight 
against diseases of poverty, which kill millions. We believe  
that by playing a role in improving public health, we can foster 
healthier communities and ultimately, stronger economies. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

20

Protecting employees from malaria 
Malaria is one of the infectious diseases prevalent in areas 
where we operate in both Africa and Asia and is therefore one 
of several diseases we focus on in our workforce health pro-
grams. In 2000, MOH initiated a corporate workplace malaria 
control program, adopting the World Health Organization 
framework for malaria control and prevention, and combining 
awareness, bite prevention, the use of chemoprophylaxis, and 
early diagnosis and treatment. The impact was dramatic and 
resulted in a significant decrease in malaria cases. Over the 
past decade, this program has helped avert an estimated 2,000 
malaria cases among non-immune workers, and since 2007, 
no ExxonMobil employees or contractors have died from 
malaria. The integration of new technology for testing urine for 
malaria chemoprophylaxis as a verification measure has helped 
achieve these results. We partnered with the Biomedical 
Research Institute of the French Army to support development 
of a related rapid diagnostic test, which saved more than  
$1.1 million total in laboratory expenses in 2013 and 2014.

Annual number of reported 
malaria cases among ExxonMobil 
non-immune workers

250

200

150

100

50

0

’03

’04

’05

’06

’07

’08

’09

’10

’11

’12

’13

’14

Contractor non-immune malaria cases

Employee non-immune malaria cases

 
Case study – Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line

“As a physician for ExxonMobil in Angola, I have been 
inspired by the integrated approach the company takes 
to address malaria. Having seen the way malaria impacts 
workers, their families and communities in sub-Saharan 
Africa, ExxonMobil introduced a workforce malaria program 
and support for community malaria control efforts more 
than a decade ago. However, ExxonMobil is not alone in our 
commitment to fight malaria. We are part of a larger effort 
of businesses partnering with the public sector to drive a 
comprehensive response to the disease. In sub-Saharan 
Africa, this joint support has made a powerful impact, and it 
is emblematic of how corporations can be agents of change 
across a spectrum of control efforts.” 

Dr. Ana Margarida Setas-Ferreira
Regional adviser for community 
and public health

Providing community support for malaria prevention  
and control
Recognizing the broader impact of malaria in some com-
munities where we work, ExxonMobil started collaborating 
with nonprofit organizations in the fight against malaria in 
2000. Since then, malaria programs funded by ExxonMobil 
have reached more than 124 million people. Our support has 
helped distribute more than 13.5 million bed nets, 2.1 million 
doses of antimalarial treatments and 2.2 million rapid diagnos-
tic kits, as well as trained more than 400,000 health workers. 
Our cash grants during that period totaled more than $130 
million, making us the largest private-sector grant-maker in  
the fight against malaria. 

We are involved in a wide range of global initiatives that 
include partnerships with corporations, philanthropic organi-
zations and NGOs to prevent, treat and find a vaccine for this 
disease. One such partner is Grassroot Soccer, an NGO that 
educates youth on how to prevent malaria and HIV/AIDS using 

PMI training lab technicians in Angola on malaria parasite detection. (Photo credit: Catholic Relief Services)

soccer-based games and activities. ExxonMobil began working 
with Grassroot Soccer and its local partners to combat malaria 
through the Skillz Malaria program in Nigeria in 2011. Since 
then, we have invested nearly $1.8 million to expand the 
program to 30,000 youth in Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea and 
Tanzania. Grassroot Soccer works with local partners who 
work directly with youth in schools, community centers and 
on soccer fields in areas endemic to malaria. Through a series 
of soccer-themed games and activities delivered by local role 
models, the participants address knowledge gaps, build their 
skills and access health services that help prevent them and 
their families from contracting and potentially dying from 
malaria. For our efforts in working with organizations such as 
Grassroot Soccer to prevent and treat infectious diseases in 

Nigeria, ExxonMobil was named the Best Company in Health-
care for 2014 at the country’s Social Enterprise Report and 
Awards gala. 

In 2015, we plan to continue successful in-country programs 
with our affiliates in Africa and add programs to encourage 
greater surveillance and additional research to address drug 
and insecticide resistance. We will focus on prioritizing direct 
service delivery of bed nets and other health care commodi-
ties to Nigeria and Angola, investing in improved surveillance 
systems and resistance research, and ensuring a pipeline of 
new antimalarial drugs.

ExxonMobil website — malaria

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

21

Case study – Combating infectious diseases, both inside and beyond our fence line

while also coordinating efforts with company medical pro-
viders, local health authorities, the U.S. Centers for Disease 
Control (CDC) and international health organizations.

Further, ExxonMobil provided grants to partners to support 
their efforts across West Africa, including Plan International to 
aid Ebola prevention and recovery efforts in Liberia; the Red 
Cross as the outbreak worsened in Liberia; and the U.S. CDC 
Foundation to support the CDC’s response to the outbreak  
in Nigeria. 

In Nigeria, Liberia and other African countries, we took every 
possible precaution to protect our workers and their fami-
lies and successfully maintain our business activities without 
compromising safety, security, health or the environment. As 
part of capacity building in Nigeria, ExxonMobil contracted 
with the Baylor College of Medicine — home to the National 
School of Tropical Medicine — which sent a six-person team to 
train nearly 1,500 employees, community members and public 
health officials on how to prevent and treat the virus. Addition-
ally, ExxonMobil provided Ebola-related training; expert advi-
sory resources, materials and equipment; personal protective 
gear; and vehicles to government agencies in Nigeria during 
the outbreak. 

“Our work in Nigeria demonstrates a teachable moment: 
When confronting a public health emergency, a nation 
needs a unified, uniform and standardized response.”

Dr. Bobby Kapur
M.D., M.P.H, lead for six-
person team from the  
Baylor College of Medicine 

Our experience with Ebola in West Africa has demonstrated 
the value of a unified approach under strong national lead-
ership in combating deadly infectious diseases. The lessons 
learned on the role a company can play will inform our  
planning for responses to potential future outbreaks.

“Fight Malaria” teaching the importance of using treated bed nets to school participants at the World Malaria Day football tournament in Lagos, Nigeria.

Protecting employees from other infectious diseases 
ExxonMobil established a steering committee for infectious 
disease control in 2011, expanding the focus from malaria to 
include tuberculosis, infectious disease outbreak management, 
vector-borne diseases and HIV/AIDS. Concurrently, we rolled 
out an Infectious Disease Outbreak Management (IDOM) 
program around the world, with oversight from the steering 
committee. The IDOM program provides prevention, pre-
paredness and response protocols for disease outbreaks in our 
workplaces, combining a set of globally applicable procedures 
and including a tool kit for investigation. Following the IDOM 
program implementation, the average number of workers 
affected during outbreaks decreased by nearly 50 percent the 
first year. The program has proven to be effective at remote 
sites and offshore facilities, and other oil and gas companies 
are adopting ExxonMobil’s approach for the prevention and 
control of infectious disease outbreaks. In 2014, ExxonMobil 
received the first Safety Leadership Award from the Center 
for Offshore Safety for its IDOM and Hurt Free programs, in 
recognition of the programs’ effectiveness in successfully  

protecting the health and safety of workers and our broad 
sharing of these best practices across the industry.  

Our response to Ebola in West Africa
Global companies with internationally mobile workforces 
have a unique challenge when it comes to the prevention and 
control of infectious diseases like Ebola that can have signifi-
cant health, economic and business continuity consequences. 
The 2014 Ebola epidemic affected multiple countries in West 
Africa. In Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation and a country 
where we have a large operational presence, there were  
20 reported cases of Ebola following the arrival of an infected 
traveler from Liberia. The country was able to respond quickly  
to contain the outbreak and return Nigeria to Ebola-free  
status. During the initial stages of the outbreak, our Houston- 
based Africa Emergency Support Group implemented regular 
communications with ExxonMobil’s Nigerian and other West 
African affiliates to review established site preparedness and 
response measures. Concurrently, we launched awareness 
communications with dedicated Web-based information, 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

22

  
Environmental
performance

Employees working at our Kearl wetlands reclamation 
project in Canada. Globally, our projects are carried 
out in a diverse range of settings that have varying 
environmental, social and health risks, which we 
systematically identify, assess, manage and monitor 
throughout the life cycle of our work.

Our commitment to Protect Tomorrow. Today. has led 
us on a decade-long journey toward superior envi-
ronmental performance. Our employees demonstrate 
their dedication to this goal every day by helping the 
organization achieve environmental leadership, caring  
about the communities where we work, and sharing 
our lessons learned with industry and our stakehold-
ers for the benefit of all.

  7,200 acres

of land managed for the benefit of wildlife over the 
past 10 years, starting with our first four programs, 
which were certified in 2005

“Protect Tomorrow. Today. is a challenge as we look 
at the global range of our operations. Being able to 
assess how the environment will change naturally 
and in response to a range of potential developments 
from us and the rest of the community requires 
insight, a broad range of data and analytical skills. 
Through my travels and interactions with many affili-
ates globally, I see we have great people working the 
issues, and I have the confidence in them to assess 
these changes, and identify environmental manage-
ment strategies and studies to reduce or eliminate 
our impacts.”

 — Russell Tait 

Chief environmental scientist

Environmental management

Ten years ago, this report introduced Protect Tomorrow. Today., 
a set of expectations that serves as the foundation for our 
environmental performance. Guided by a scientific under-
standing of the environmental impacts and related risks of our 
operations, as well as the social and economic needs of the 
communities in which we do business, these principles have 
become an integral part of our day-to-day work. The three key 
principles of Protect Tomorrow. Today. are: 

Environmental risk management, along with risk management  
in all facets of our business, is guided by our Operations Integ-
rity Management System (OIMS). This disciplined approach 
establishes a common framework for addressing safety, 
security, health, environmental and social risks and their related 
impacts. It also provides a systematic, structured approach to 
measure progress and track accountability across business 
lines, facilities and projects. Visit our website for more detailed 
information about OIMS and our overall environmental, regu-
latory and socioeconomic management approach.

•  Delivery of superior environmental performance, leading to 

ExxonMobil’s OIMS brochure

a competitive advantage;

•  Driving environmental incidents with real impact to zero, 

through a process of continuous improvement; and

•  Achieving industry leadership in focus areas valuable  

to the business.

These principles, along with the existing corporate environ-
mental policy, helped define a set of environmental perfor-
mance expectations. We outline our approach to achieving 
these expectations throughout this chapter.

Environmental management is important for our business, 
as well as the world in which we live and operate. Globally, 
our projects are carried out in a diverse range of settings 
that have varying environmental, social and health risks. We 
systematically identify, assess, manage and monitor these risks 
throughout the life cycle of our work. Our pursuit of superior 
environmental performance is founded on a thorough under-
standing of local regulatory, environmental, socioeconomic 
and health contexts. Early on and throughout an asset’s life 
cycle, we identify potential risks through our Environmental 
Aspects Assessment (EAA) and Environmental, Socioeconomic 
and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) processes. We also 
prepare Environmental, Socioeconomic and Health Manage-
ment Plans and Environmental Business Plans (EBPs) to guide 
the implementation of mitigation and monitoring strategies 
aimed at effectively managing impacts and their associated 
risks. We integrate stakeholder engagement into this effort 
throughout the asset life cycle.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

24

Biodiversity and  
ecosystem services

Biodiversity and ecosystem services — the direct and indirect 
benefits people obtain from the environment, such as food, 
water, shelter, clean air and cultural identity — are important  
for society, and we work to protect them wherever we operate. 
Our approach recognizes factors such as the rarity of individual 
species, their roles in different ecosystems and habitats, their 
vulnerabilities and their cultural significance. As part of the 
expectations of Protect Tomorrow. Today., we strive to be a 
leader in safeguarding the ability of the environment to provide 
these ecosystem services. For our major Upstream projects, we 
identify and evaluate environmental, social and health risks and 
opportunities through the ESHIA process. Additionally, biodi-
versity and ecosystem services are taken into account during 
the EAA and EBP processes throughout the life of an asset.

Environmental Aspects Guide

Protecting biodiversity
We continually look for new tools and analytical methods to 
improve our understanding of local biodiversity conditions 
and ecosystem services in our areas of operation. In 2014, 
we continued our study of the ecosystem services in the Gulf 
of Mexico in collaboration with the Harte Research Institute 
for Gulf of Mexico Studies. As part of this effort, we engaged 
local businesses, federal agencies, researchers and NGOs in an 

Environmental performanceUp Close:
Ecosystem management  
on Alaska’s North Slope 

The Arctic region represents one of the world’s largest remain-
ing areas of undiscovered oil and gas resources, and we expect 
the Arctic to play a critical role in helping to meet the world’s 
growing energy demand. We understand that operating in 
this region presents unique technological, environmental and 
social challenges.

ExxonMobil conducted caribou migration monitoring near our  
Point Thomson Project.

An ExxonMobil contractor conducting a fish population survey in 
the Beaufort Sea.

ExxonMobil’s Point Thomson Project is on the North Slope of 
Alaska, adjacent to the Beaufort Sea. Initial production is set to 
begin in 2016. From the outset of the project, ExxonMobil has 
worked to understand the local physical, biological and social 
environment. We engage with stakeholders in local communi-
ties and with government and regulatory agencies to help us 
address biodiversity and sustainability challenges. ExxonMobil 
has participated in meetings and workshops with North Slope 
Borough officials and residents, and hosted regular community 
meetings in the village of Kaktovik to develop a deeper under-
standing of local concerns and priorities. This dialogue resulted 
in project design modifications, cooperation to avoid conflicts 
with traditional subsistence hunting, cultural resource protec-
tion, education and research programs, and wildlife monitoring 
surveys to understand present-day conditions and mitigate 
possible impacts on caribou and fish. Two of these monitoring 
surveys are summarized below. 

•  ExxonMobil conducted aerial surveys in June 2013 

and June 2014 to count caribou in the project area and 

document calving locations. We deployed motion-activated 
cameras between May and September in both years to 
document caribou movements near planned infrastructure 
(2013) and behavior around constructed facilities (2014). 
The project team worked with the state of Alaska to collar 
nine female caribou in the area to improve our understand-
ing of the animals’ migration patterns. Analysis of the data 
indicated the installed pipeline had no observable effects on 
the movements of caribou within the study area. 

•  In 2013 and 2014, ExxonMobil performed near-shore fish 

and sediment surveys in the summer months using fyke and 
gill nets to identify the types and numbers of marine fish 
near the project’s location. Some fish tissue and sediment 
testing was conducted to understand present-day levels of 
specific chemical compounds. We concluded that fish catch 
patterns and relative abundance were similar for each year, 
and the concentrations of the targeted chemical compounds 
in sediment and fish were consistently low and typical of the 
natural Beaufort Sea environment.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

25

attempt to prioritize ecosystem services provided by the Gulf. 
Results of this study are currently being prepared for submis-
sion to a peer-reviewed journal.

“Understanding the value that stakeholders place on the 
services provided by the offshore environment is important 
to the scientific community, ocean industries, government 
entities and NGOs. ExxonMobil is a key partner in advancing 
this knowledge.”

Professor David Yoskowitz 
Endowed chair for 
socioeconomics at the Harte 
Research Institute and renowned 
ecosystem services expert

Several of our biodiversity experts also published a peer- 
reviewed article in 2014 that outlined an ecosystem services 
approach to marine environmental management. Using the 
deepwater Gulf of Mexico as a case study, our researchers 
developed a methodology, adaptable for use in a variety of 
environmental settings, that can be used for prioritizing moni-
toring efforts to protect the health of ecosystem services.

Rapid prioritization of marine ecosystem  
services and ecosystem indicators

ExxonMobil is also proud to support innovative research for 
improved biodiversity management. In 2014, we contrib-
uted approximately $5 million to organizations focused on 
biodiversity protection and land conservation. For example, 
ExxonMobil Research Qatar is collaborating with Qatar 
University and Texas A&M University at Galveston to study the 
dugong population — a marine mammal species that the Inter-
national Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has listed as 
vulnerable to extinction — in Qatar’s coastal waters.

Environmental performance 
“It is essential to both Qatar and ExxonMobil to increase  
our understanding of the marine environment, and we  
hope the data gathered in this study can be utilized by  
other academic, regulatory and research stakeholders in 
support of management and conservation plans for the 
dugong population.”

 — Dr. Jennifer Dupont, research director, ExxonMobil  

Research Qatar

Working in protected areas
To ensure adequate plans are in place at our sites to manage 
elevated biodiversity or species risks, we periodically screen 
the locations of our major operating facilities against data-
bases of the IUCN and World Protected Areas. We confirmed 
an estimated 20 percent of our major operating facilities are 
within five kilometers of designated environmentally protected 
areas. These data are also used when developing emergency 
response contingency plans that prioritize areas needing pro-
tection, as well as in environmental impact surveys during new 
or brownfield development.

We continue to collaborate with the Wildlife Habitat Council  
(WHC) to develop educational and outreach programs 
through the Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) program. 
Currently, we have five CLL programs certified at or near our 
facilities, including at our Billings (Montana) Refinery, Baton 
Rouge (Louisiana) Complex, Clinton (New Jersey) Research 
Facility, Fife (United Kingdom) Ethylene Plant and Lentol Gar-
dens in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, New York. These programs help 
us promote environmental awareness, biodiversity and science 
initiatives in our workforce and local communities.

By the end of 2014, we actively managed 7,200 acres of land 
for the benefit of wildlife at 18 of our sites through 21 certified 
programs. Our newest WHC Wildlife at Work site is at our 
North Houston Campus, which features 195 acres of wildlife 
habitat. Surveys at the campus identified 343 ecologically 
valuable trees, of which 213 were preserved in place. Profes-
sional arborists moved the remaining trees to other locations 
within the campus and are providing observation and care to 
ensure their continued health. Ongoing monitoring programs 
on the campus focus on the presence of bird species and the 
detection and removal of invasive plant species.  

Up Close:
Monitoring the  
Steller’s sea eagle

In the vicinity of Exxon Neftegas Limited’s operations on 
Sakhalin Island in Russia, we have studied and monitored the 
Steller’s sea eagle, an IUCN Red List species, for many years. 
Since 2006, we have focused on 13 pairs of the eagles near 
our Chayvo project location. We have built 35 perches and 15 
nesting platforms to improve the habitat and promote nesting 
and hatching success. The eagles have shown their ability to 
adapt to our presence as they continue to hunt and nest in the 
area. Since the monitoring program began, we have observed 
the average nesting capacity of fledglings per occupied nest 
near Chayvo is higher than the average for the island as a 
whole. We will continue to monitor this important species in 
the coming years.

Up Close:
Protecting whales  
in the Gulf of Mexico  
and Australia

ExxonMobil helped fund a sperm whale tagging and monitor-
ing study in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in 2014. Professor Bruce 
Mate of Oregon State University — one of the world’s foremost 
experts on whale tagging and tracking — led the study,  
which enabled mapping of key sperm whale habitat areas.  
We are using the results in our environmental stewardship 
programs to continue to safeguard calving areas and other  
key whale habitats.

In collaboration with the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Man-
agement and other industry partners, ExxonMobil is also a key 
sponsor of a research effort to study the behavioral response 
of Australian humpback whales to seismic surveys. The main 
objectives of the study are to improve risk assessments for 
seismic surveys and apply new science to the process of 
impact assessment and management. We completed the final 
field season in 2014, and a team of internationally recognized 
experts from several Australian universities is now analyzing 
the significant amount of data. Results to date are available at 
soundandmarinelife.org.

A Steller’s sea eagle sits on a perch near ExxonMobil’s operations 
on Sakhalin Island.

Australian humpback whale.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

26

Environmental performance 
How much water is needed to produce one quart of oil-equivalent energy?1

Water management

Freshwater intensity is the total amount of freshwater needed to produce an identical unit of energy for a variety of energy 
sources and transportation fuels.

Natural gas
One oil-equivalent quart of natural gas requires 
 anywhere from a bit more than a tablespoon to a  bit 
more than a cup of water. Unconventional or  “fracked” 
natural gas is at the higher end of the range.

Petroleum
One quart of petroleum requires from one to  two-
and-a-half quarts of water. (Extraction itself  requires 
less than a cup — most of the water goes toward 
cooling in the refinery.)

Extracted coal
One oil-equivalent quart of extracted coal  requires less 
than two quarts of water.

Electric power from coal
One oil-equivalent quart of electric power from coal 
 requires anywhere from 11 to 18 quarts of water  for 
cooling. (Gas-fired turbines also require cooling water, 
but are a bit more efficient and require less water than 
coal-fired plants.)

Ethanol
One oil-equivalent quart of ethanol requires  from  
six quarts to as much as seven barrels of  water (de-
pending on irrigation). This is typical of  most biofuels.

1Adapted from the freshwater intensity page at exxonmobil.com.

Hydroelectric power
One oil-equivalent quart of hydroelectric power  re-
quires from 15 quarts to as much as 30  barrels  
of water because of evaporation and subsurface  
seepage from reservoirs.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

27

Water and energy are interrelated, and both are critical 
for society, economic development and the environment. 
ExxonMobil manages water resources with care, using the 
same systems, processes and policies that govern our overall 
approach to environmental management. In 2014, we pub-
lished four key commitments in a framework for water man-
agement that focus on preventing adverse impacts to water 
resources while carefully managing the water we do use.  

For more information about how ExxonMobil manages water, 
visit our website.

ExxonMobil’s approach to water use

We are committed to minimizing the impacts of our water 
withdrawals, consumption and discharges. In 2014, the net 
freshwater consumption at our operations was 270 million 
cubic meters, representing a continued decline since 2011. 

Global freshwater consumption2

Millions of cubic meters

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

320

350

340

330

330

370

280

270

2This year, for the first time, we are reporting freshwater intensity alongside
  consumption data in our performance data (pages 71–73). Freshwater intensity
  is the ratio of net freshwater consumption to the amount of throughput or
  production. Normalized in this way, we can better understand how efficiently 
  we are using freshwater in our operations. Data collection began in 2007.   
 Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 2011.

Environmental performance 
We have reduced our freshwater consumption by 15 percent 
since 2007, in part due to local water management strat-
egies. ExxonMobil’s total water consumption includes use 
by Downstream refineries and Chemical plants, Upstream 
oil and gas production, and XTO Energy for onshore shale 
development in the United States. The vast majority of 
our water consumption occurs in Downstream refineries 
and Chemical plants, with XTO Energy accounting for only 
approximately 4 percent of the total.

We recognize some of our operations can use significant 
amounts of water, and we engage with stakeholders regard-
ing their concerns about the use and protection of local 
water resources. We consider local water requirements and 
alternatives when sourcing water for our activities, including 
identifying and managing the risks related to water availability 
and quality. Of our major operating sites, approximately  
30 percent are located in areas identified with the potential for 
water stress or scarcity. We develop and implement local water 
management strategies, including the use of freshwater alter-
natives such as recycled municipal and industrial wastewater, 
seasonal water management and rainwater harvesting.

Local water management efforts at key sites have contrib-
uted to the gradual decline in our water consumption since 
2011. For example, the wastewater treatment facility at our 
Singapore chemical plant uses state-of-the-art membrane 
bioreactor (MBR) technology to treat wastewater, enabling 
it to be reused as cooling water. This reduces the overall 
amount of freshwater used in the plant by 3 percent, and 
the remaining treated wastewater to be discharged is well 
within the specifications set by the Singapore government. 
Since reuse of the MBR-treated water started in May 2014, 
on average, 30 to 40 percent of treated water is reused as 
cooling water, and further increases are planned. 

We use alternative water sources where appropriate and seek 
opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We assess 
actual costs, quality and availability, as well as potential trade-
offs, such as varied operational efficiencies, increased energy 
use or the consequences of producing more concentrated 
waste streams.  

XTO Energy drilling rig in Bakken, North Dakota. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

28

Up Close:
Management of seismicity in 
unconventional operations

Some stakeholders have expressed concern about the risk of  
induced seismicity near unconventional operations. ExxonMobil  
takes a diligent risk management approach toward limiting  
induced seismicity in our operations. We are exploring 
research opportunities focused on improved understanding  
of the phenomenon of induced seismicity to share with com-
munities, academia and regulators, and further strengthen our 
risk management systems. 

The science of earthquakes can be complex. Earthquakes 
are caused mostly by natural processes. The U.S. Geological 
Survey estimates there are more than 1 million natural 
earthquakes each year, whereas according to a 2012 National 
Academy of Sciences report, there have been only 155 cases 
of induced or man-made seismicity documented globally 
over the past 80 years. Seismicity due to wastewater injection 
wells is uncommon, and events due to hydraulic fracturing are 
even rarer. 

We have a cross-functional team of experts in our company 
studying induced seismicity and examining our operations and 
the related science. This team developed a protocol that we 
now use at XTO Energy to assess the existing underground 
geology in more detail, focusing on the risks of potentially 
inducing seismicity when we are siting new wastewater 
disposal wells. Further, we are highly engaged in academic 
and regulatory discussions; the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency and other regulatory bodies have asked us to present 
our perspectives and peer-review their reports.

Environmental performance  
  
Another example, from the Upstream operations, shows our 
continual efforts to use research and operational analysis to 
improve capabilities and performance. Imperial, an ExxonMobil 
affiliate in Canada, committed to freshwater reduction projects 
at its Cold Lake operations as part of a water license renewal in 
2011. By 2014, the projects were completed and successfully 
reduced freshwater consumption by 30 percent compared 
with the 2006–2008 average. Imperial is also a member of 
Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), an industry 
group focused on improvements in environmental perfor-
mance in Canada’s oil sands through collaborative action 
and innovation. One key focus area for COSIA is to reduce 
freshwater intensity for in situ oil sands operations, which will 
require COSIA members to improve water use efficiency and 
recycle rates within their operations.

Spill performance 

ExxonMobil focuses on implementing preventive measures to 
avoid spills and, if a spill does occur, ensure a rapid, com-
prehensive response. We continually seek to develop and 
improve risk management, operations integrity, spill prevention 
processes and containment capabilities. The total volume of 
hydrocarbons spilled to soil and water was 9,100 barrels in 
2014; more than 60 percent was recovered at the spill sites.  
The majority of these spills do not affect third parties or the 
communities that surround us. Over the past decade, we  
have reduced the number of spills greater than 1 barrel by  
approximately 10 percent.

In 2012, we started measuring significant spills to the environ-
ment (SSEs) across the corporation. SSEs are spills to surface 
water and groundwater, sensitive environments or communi-
ties. We had 20 significant spills in 2014, including a spill from 
a time-chartered marine vessel involving a small amount of 
gasoil to water during a cargo transfer. These SSEs represent 
approximately 6 percent of the total number of spills. We are 
increasing focus on these spills to learn from them so we can 
prevent their reoccurrence. 

Significant spills to the environment3

Number of spills of any fluid type that warrant greater focus

2012

2013

2014

3We started measuring SSEs in 2012.

15

20

20

Spills (not from marine vessels)4

Number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills greater 
than 1 barrel

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

370

295

253

211

210

242

484

356

330

335

and detect corrosion, third-party damage or intrusions onto 
our rights of way. We also patrol our pipeline routes on the 
ground and in the air, and we monitor pipeline operations 
around the clock using state-of-the-art systems, alarms and 
other monitoring technologies. For information on how we  
are managing products transported by rail, see page 15. 

We have implemented enhanced surveying techniques  
and are applying state-of-the-art inspection technologies  
and analyses on our pipelines. These surveys and inspection  
findings are identifying areas where we can strengthen our  
pipeline integrity and risk management systems. In addition,  
we are working closely with others in the industry to  
evaluate and capture technology advancements for  
pipeline integrity assurance.

“Our company is built on the foundation of risk management 
for everything we do. During my career, I have had the oppor-
tunity to work in Refining, Chemical and Lubricant manufac-
turing roles around the world. I firmly believe if we manage 
risks right, we can prevent significant process safety events, 
including spills to the environment. Effectively managing risks 
is fundamental to successful business performance.”

Lynne Lachenmyer 
Safety, security, health and 
environment vice president

Spills to water 

Spills to soil 

4Includes XTO Energy data beginning in 2011.

Every day, ExxonMobil Pipeline Company transports approx-
imately 2.6 million barrels of petroleum and chemical feed-
stocks and products through approximately 8,000 miles of 
pipelines in the United States. We diligently maintain and 
inspect our pipelines to ensure their integrity and prevent  

The worldwide marine business of ExxonMobil’s affiliates, 
which involves about 500 vessels in daily service, logged 
nearly 20,000 voyages and 42,000 port calls in 2014, safely 
transporting approximately 1.35 billion barrels of crude oil 
and refined products. In 2014, our marine affiliate, SeaRiver 
Maritime Inc., launched a new crude oil tanker, Liberty Bay, 
to transport crude oil from the Alaska North Slope to refiner-
ies along the U.S. west coast. While all of the vessels owned 
and operated by SeaRiver have mandatory double-hull cargo 
tanks, Liberty Bay also features the latest safety, navigation and 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

29

Environmental performanceExxonMobil employees conducting ice testing in the Kara Sea to measure the thickness and robustness of the ice. In 2014, we successfully completed drilling of the University-1 well in this Arctic environment.

engine room technologies, including double-hull fuel tanks, 
fully redundant navigation systems and high-efficiency engines 
with electronic tuning. An advanced ballast water treatment 
system will provide additional environmental protection, in 
advance of international requirements.

Offshore oil spill response
As part of our commitment to operational excellence, we 
have developed specialized spill response tactics. We have 
the industry’s leading, dedicated, in-house oil spill response 
research program, which includes a focus on Arctic research. 
ExxonMobil also participates in multiple joint industry projects 
for improving oil spill response in the Arctic and elsewhere, 
including the American Petroleum Institute (API) joint industry 
task force, the International Association of Oil and Gas Pro-
ducers (IOGP) Arctic oil spill response technology joint industry 
program, an IOGP and IPIECA joint industry project, and the 
API oil sands technical subcommittee.

These projects allow us to share best practices and  
learn from our peers. For more information, visit the  
following websites: 

API joint industry task force

Arctic oil spill response technology 

IOGP-IPIECA joint industry project

Since 2010, we have collaborated with others in our industry 
through our membership in the Marine Well Containment 
Company (MWCC) to develop an oil spill containment system 
for the Gulf of Mexico. In support of MWCC, ExxonMobil led a 
Marine Well Containment System project, which commenced 
delivery of an expanded containment system (ECS) in 2014. 
The ECS significantly increases the response capability of 

MWCC both in terms of capacity and flexibility. For more 
information about the ECS, visit MWCC’s website. 

Marine Well Containment Company

In 2014, an ExxonMobil and Rosneft joint venture conducted 
drilling operations at the University-1 well in Russia’s Kara Sea. 
This was the capstone of extensive preparations that included 
environmental studies, seismic operations, employment of 
an advanced ice management system and integration of a 
winterized drilling rig. A fleet of multifunctional support vessels 
accompanied the rig to maintain operations integrity, conduct-
ing safe operations hundreds of miles from the shore base. 

The preparations for and completion of operations at the  
University-1 well demonstrated our ability to integrate the 
people, technologies and best practices needed to operate  

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

30

Environmental performance 
in an Arctic offshore environment safely and effectively,  
and further added to our knowledge base for operations  
in the Arctic.

Air emissions

We continue to seek opportunities to reduce the environ-
mental impacts from our operations and our products. Our 
combined emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), 
sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) have decreased 
more than 40 percent over the past 10 years across all of our 
operations. Our Baytown (Texas) refining and petrochemical 
complex has also achieved near double-digit improvements 
in energy efficiency and air quality during the past decade. 
Despite its size and complexity, the Baytown Refinery now 
uses energy more efficiently than 90 percent of all other U.S. 
refineries. Over the past decade, energy efficiency across the 
Baytown complex has improved by 10 percent, and NOx and 
VOC emissions have been reduced by 46 percent and 40 per-
cent, respectively. During this same period, air-related incident 
performance has improved by 64 percent.

“As a community partner in Baytown for 95 years, we are 
proud of our accomplishments. We remain committed to 
maintaining operational excellence and pioneering new 
ways to reduce emissions and improve air quality. Our  
mission is clear: Protect Tomorrow. Today.”

Matt Crocker 
Baytown Refinery manager

In 2014, we completed our clean fuels project at our refinery  
in Saudi Arabia, a joint venture of ExxonMobil and Saudi 
Aramco. This project’s desulfurization facilities are designed 
to cut sulfur levels in gasoline and diesel by more than 98 
percent. The ultra-low sulfur fuels produced as a result of this 
investment will allow for reduced emissions when used in 
modern engines.

Air emissions

Millions of metric tons

0.40

0.35

0.30

0.25

0.20

0.15

0.10

0.05

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011 2012 2013 2014

VOCs

SO2

NOx

Workers at our clean fuels expansion project in Saudi Arabia.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

31

Environmental performance 
 
Environmental compliance

We comply with all applicable host-country environmental 
laws and regulations, and we apply responsible standards 
where they do not exist. Wherever reasonable, we strive to go 
beyond compliance and demonstrate leadership in environ-
mental management. One example of where we have gone 
beyond compliance is the installation of a denitrification facility 
as part of our biological oxidation basin replacement project at 
our Baton Rouge (Louisiana) Refinery. This additional voluntary 
capital investment for denitrification reduces our nitrate emis-
sions to the Gulf of Mexico by up to 500 tons annually. 

Our worldwide environmental expenditures in 2014 totaled 
approximately $6 billion. This included an estimated $2.5 billion 
in capital expenditures and approximately $3.5 billion in operat-
ing expenses. In 2014, 74 penalties, fines and settlements were 
paid — the same as in 2013 — accounting for less than 1 percent 
of total environmental expenditures, or about $15 million. 

Rehabilitating the environment 

As part of our life cycle approach to protecting the envi-
ronment, we continue to enhance the rehabilitation of our 
no-longer-needed properties so they can have a beneficial 
next use. By taking actions today, we can ensure the land we 
use is available for environmental benefits and development 
in the future. Since its creation in 2008, ExxonMobil Environ-
mental Services (EMES) — our global functional organization 
that provides guidance and support on remediation and  
surplus-site stewardship — has managed more than $5.1 
billion on remediation work and returned more than 1,400 
properties to beneficial end use. In 2014 alone, we monitored 
5,600 active sites in our EMES global portfolio.

Up Close:
Rehabilitation projects  
in the Arctic

Working in Arctic environments provides unique challenges 
for every phase of our operations, including remediation. The 
extreme climate, coupled with limited transportation options 
and waste disposal infrastructure, require ExxonMobil Environ-
mental Services to use innovative techniques when reclaiming 
the environment.

In Alaska, our Point Thomson Project conducted multiple 
tundra sod experiments to expand our knowledge of tun-
dra rehabilitation techniques. One experiment used freshly 
harvested tundra sod and organic soil from the Point Thomson 
gravel mine to rehabilitate a portion of an existing gravel pad 
and create a vegetated buffer for a nearby stream. Another 
experiment involved placing tundra sod on a gravel slope to 
test its ability to provide slope stabilization. In addition, tundra 
sod was stacked, overwintered and transplanted the following 
summer to determine whether harvested sod would survive 
for later use. Monitoring of these experimental sites suggests 
these trials have been successful.

“Tundra is inherently complex, and rehabilitation can take 
decades in the harsh Arctic environment. This work rep-
resents an innovative approach to using valuable natural 
materials and accelerating the rehabilitation process. We 
have shared these techniques with industry partners, agen-
cies and other stakeholders.”

Brien Reep 
Safety, security, health and 
environment manager, Point 
Thomson Project

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

32

At Tununuk Point in Canada, Imperial Environmental Services 
is working with the federal government to remediate a site that 
was a federal radar station after World War II and an Imperial 
Oil exploration logistics base from 1971 through 1984. We are 
also using bioremediation techniques and installing engineered 
containment systems on two site landfills. As with all of our 
projects, we employ a disciplined and structured risk manage-
ment approach to ensure we are protecting the environment 
while also working safely.

ExxonMobil employees and contractors working on the tundra sod 
project at Point Thomson.

Environmental performance 
Managing climate 
change risks

An employee at our Joliet Refinery in Channahon, 
Illinois. The Joliet Refinery is one of the newest 
refineries in the United States and is the most  
energy-efficient refinery in the country.

As we seek to increase production of oil and natural 
gas to meet growing global energy demand, we con-
tinue to take steps to reduce emissions and contribute 
to effective long-term solutions to manage climate 
change risks. 

41%

reduction in flaring over the past 10 years

“I find working in the area of climate change fascinat-
ing. It is a global challenge, requiring solutions that 
balance geopolitical and economic considerations of 
diverse nations and communities around the world, 
with an understanding of the complex field of climate 
science. ExxonMobil brings significant capabilities to 
this discussion and the intellectual curiosity to pursue 
an understanding of the science behind the changes 
to our climate. In my role, I get to see the nexus of 
these issues, analyze the impact on the organization 
and shape our efforts.”

 — Susan Blevins  

U.S. greenhouse gas and  
climate change issue manager

Society continues to face the dual challenge of expanding 
energy supplies to support economic growth and improve  
living standards, while simultaneously addressing the societal 
and environmental risks posed by rising greenhouse gas  
(GHG) emissions and climate change. Our climate change  
risk management strategy includes four components: engag-
ing on climate change policy and planning; mitigating GHG 
emissions in our operations; developing future technology; 
and developing products that reduce GHG emissions  
for customers. 

Engaging on climate change 
policy and planning

•  Minimize complexity and administrative costs;

•  Maximize transparency; and

•  Provide flexibility for future adjustments to react to devel-
opments in climate science and the economic impacts of 
climate policies.

We believe a properly designed, revenue-neutral carbon tax is 
a more effective policy option for imposing a cost on carbon 
than cap-and-trade schemes, regulations, mandates or stan-
dards. Properly designed, a revenue-neutral carbon tax:

•  Is a more efficient means of reflecting the cost of carbon  
in all economic decisions, and thus is more transparent  
and predictable;

Managing the risks of climate change requires the participation 
of governments, private companies, consumers and other 
stakeholders. We engage stakeholders directly and through 
trade associations around the world to encourage sound pol-
icy solutions for addressing these risks.  

•  More easily lends itself to global application;

•  Avoids the complexity of building additional carbon  

security markets;

Attributes of sound climate policy
ExxonMobil believes the long-term objective of a climate 
change policy should be to reduce the risk of serious  
impacts to humanity and ecosystems at minimum societal 
cost, while recognizing the importance of abundant, reliable 
and affordable energy to enable improved living standards 
worldwide. Both developed and developing countries need  
to work together in crafting policies aimed at mitigating  
global CO2 emissions, while recognizing the potential for 
differing priorities. 

If policymakers choose to take action to address the risks of 
climate change, we believe effective policies will be those that:

•  Promote global participation;  

•  Let market prices drive the selection of solutions; 

•  Ensure a uniform and predictable cost of GHG emissions 

across the economy;

•  Can be implemented through the existing tax  

infrastructure; and

•  Is better-suited for setting a uniform standard to hold all 

nations accountable.

Engaging stakeholders
ExxonMobil engages a variety of stakeholders — including 
policymakers, investors, consumers, academia, NGOs and the 
public — on climate change issues of direct relevance to the 
company. We align our internal positions and external com-
munications via a corporate-wide global climate change and 
GHG issue management team with national and regional sub-
teams. This team applies corporate level policy principles and 
positions to external issues that arise at local, state, national 
and regional levels to ensure consistency across the globe. 
ExxonMobil employees also hold key leadership positions, 
including board of director positions, with many trade associa-
tions that engage on climate change issues, including the API, 
IOGP and IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association 
for environmental and social issues.  

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

34

Managing climate change risksAdditionally, we contribute to a wide range of academic  
and policy organizations that research and promote dialogue 
on domestic and foreign policy issues. We annually review our 
support of tax-exempt organizations and make appropriate 
adjustments. We publish a list of the 501(c)(3) organizations 
we support on our website and update the list annually.

ExxonMobil Worldwide Giving Report 

Our scientists have been involved in climate change research 
and related policy analysis for more than 30 years, yielding 
more than 50 papers in peer-reviewed publications. Experts 
from our organization have participated in the United Nations 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since its 
inception. Most recently, our scientists contributed to the IPCC 
Fifth Assessment Report in lead author, review editor and 
reviewer roles. Our scientists also participate in the work of the 
National Academy of Sciences, including its work to review 
the third U.S. National Climate Assessment Report and provide 
advice to the U.S. Global Change Research Program.

Mitigating greenhouse gas 
emissions in our operations

We have a robust set of processes designed to improve effi-
ciency, reduce emissions and contribute to effective long-term 
solutions to manage climate change risks. These processes 
include, where appropriate, setting tailored objectives at the 
business, site and equipment levels, and then stewarding 
progress toward meeting those objectives. Based on decades 
of experience, ExxonMobil believes this rigorous bottom-up 
approach is a more effective way to drive efficiency improve-
ment and GHG emissions reduction than simply setting high-
level corporate targets. We also believe that continuing to use 
this approach will yield further improvements in all sectors of 
our business. 

Our chairman and members of the management committee 
have primary responsibility for — and are actively engaged  
in — managing climate change risks. The board of directors 
receives annual in-depth briefings that cover updates on public 

GHG emissions (net)1

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions
Millions of metric tons

GHG emissions (normalized)

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions                                                 
Metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

136

139

135

126

123

126

128

125

125

122

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011 2012 2013 2014

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

1Our calculations are based on the guidance provided in API's Compendium of  
  Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodologies for the Oil and Gas 
  Industry and IPIECA's Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse   
  Gas Emissions.

GHG reductions from 
ExxonMobil actions2

Net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions 
Millions of metric tons

policy, scientific and technical research, and company positions 
and actions related to climate change. To drive improvement, 
our merit-driven employee development and compensation 
systems integrate performance in environmental areas, includ-
ing emissions and energy efficiency. 

In the near term, we are working to increase energy efficiency 
while reducing flaring, venting and fugitive emissions in our 
operations. In the medium term, we are deploying proven 
technologies such as cogeneration and, where technically 
and economically feasible, carbon capture and sequestration. 
Longer term, we are conducting and supporting research to 
develop breakthrough, game-changing technologies. 

In 2014, ExxonMobil’s net equity GHG emissions were  
122 million CO2-equivalent metric tons. Over the past several 

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

1.8

4.1

6.3

8.7

10.9

13.6

15.4

17.3

19.7

21.5

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

35

2Cumulative since 2005.

Energy efficiency and cogeneration

Flare/vent reduction

Managing climate change risksyears, our GHG emissions have remained relatively flat, as 
our efficiency improvements have essentially offset increases 
in production intensity. Relative to our 2013 performance, 
our 2014 emissions decreased by approximately 3 million 
CO2-equivalent metric tons. This decrease was primarily driven 
by efficiency improvements outpacing production intensity 
increases, as well as asset divestments.

2014 Carbon Disclosure Project response 

Energy efficiency
In 2014, energy used in our operations totaled 1.6 billion giga-
joules, which is similar to our 2013 energy usage. Despite an 
increase in energy intensity in some parts of our business, our 
focus on efficiency has allowed energy consumption to remain 
essentially flat over the past five years. Energy consumed in 
our operations generates more than 80 percent of our direct  
GHG emissions and is one of our largest operating costs. 
As such, we have focused on energy efficiency for several 
decades. Since 2000, we have used our Global Energy Man-
agement System in the Downstream and Chemical businesses, 
and our Production Operations Energy Management System 
in our Upstream businesses to identify and act on energy- 
savings opportunities.  

Between 2002 and 2012, we improved energy efficiency by 
more than 10 percent in our global refining and chemical man-
ufacturing operations. This began as a U.S. refining industry 
10-year objective in 2002 as part of an initiative with the API, 
which we expanded to include our global refining and chem-
ical manufacturing operations. In the 2012 Solomon Survey,1 
ExxonMobil had five of the 10 most energy-efficient refineries 
in the Americas, with our Joliet (Illinois) Refinery being the 
most energy-efficient in the United States. This is an example 
of how our bottom-up approach has yielded industry-leading 
energy efficiency and GHG emissions reduction results. 

1This survey is conducted every two years; the 2014 survey results will be available 
in mid-2015.  

ExxonMobil has been one of the largest natural gas producers in the world since our merger with XTO Energy in 2010.

Up Close:
The role of natural gas

One of the greatest opportunities for society to reduce GHG 
emissions is through the use of natural gas in power genera-
tion. Natural gas is a flexible, abundant and low-emissions fuel 
that is available across the globe. On a life-cycle basis, from 
extraction through electricity consumption, using natural gas 
emits 50 percent fewer GHG emissions than coal. It is also the 
ideal partner for intermittent renewable energy sources, such 
as solar or wind, as it can provide power when these renew-
able sources are not available. As the world moves toward a 
lower carbon-intensive energy mix over the coming decades, 
natural gas will be one of the most important fuels to enable 
reductions in GHG emissions.

Since our merger with XTO Energy in 2010, ExxonMobil has 
been one of the largest natural gas producers in the world. 
Coupled with our leadership in the development and  
production of liquefied natural gas (LNG), ExxonMobil is 
well-positioned to meet growing demand for this clean  
energy source. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

36

An ExxonMobil employee working at our XTO Energy Means Compressor  
Station in Midland, Texas.

Managing climate change risksHydrocarbon flaring

Millions of metric tons

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

7.7

8.2

8.0

5.7

3.6

3.6

3.7

4.4

4.1

4.5

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Flaring
In 2014, flaring volume from our combined Upstream, Down-
stream and Chemical operations totaled 4.5 million metric 
tons. This represents an increase of 0.8 million metric tons 
compared with our 2013 performance.

The increase in flaring in 2014 was primarily due to typical 
startup activities at our new LNG facility in Papua New Guinea, 
and assuming operatorship of the existing Usan production 
field in Nigeria, where we previously did not report flaring 
emissions since we did not operate the field. As we begin to 
apply our operating practices and procedures in the Usan field, 
we anticipate flaring to decrease. Consistent with the Global 
Gas Flaring Reduction Initiative, of which ExxonMobil is a  
charter member, and as specified in our Upstream Flaring  
and Venting Reduction Environmental Standard for Projects, 
our aim is to avoid routine flaring and venting of natural gas  
in new projects and reduce flaring in our existing operations.  

Up Close:
Managing the business risks  
of climate change

ExxonMobil believes producing our existing hydrocarbon 
reserves is essential to meeting growing global energy 
demand. We enable consumers — especially those in the 
least-developed and most-vulnerable economies — to pursue 
higher living standards and greater economic opportunity. 
We believe all economic energy sources will be necessary to 
meet growing demand, and the transition of the energy system 
to lower carbon sources will take many decades due to its 
enormous scale, capital intensity and complexity. As such, we 
believe that none of our proven hydrocarbon reserves are, or 
will become, stranded.

Energy and Carbon — Managing the Risks

ExxonMobil makes long-term investment decisions based in 
part on our comprehensive annual analysis that underpins 
our global Outlook for Energy. We project an energy-related 
CO2 emissions profile through 2040. This can be compared 
with the energy-related CO2 emissions profiles from various 
scenarios outlined by the IPCC. When we do this, our Outlook 
emissions profile would closely approximate the IPCC’s inter-
mediate Representative Concentration Pathways 4.5 emissions 
profile in shape, but is slightly under it in magnitude. 

We address the potential for future climate change policy, 
including the potential for restrictions on emissions, by esti-
mating a proxy cost of carbon. This cost, which in some geog-
raphies may approach $80 per ton by 2040, has been included 
in our Outlook for several years. This approach seeks to reflect 
potential policies governments may employ related to the 
exploration, development, production, transportation or use 
of carbon-based fuels. We believe our view on the potential 
for future policy action is realistic and, by no means represents 
a “business as usual” case. We require all of our business lines 
to include, where appropriate, an estimate of GHG-related 
emissions costs in their economics when seeking funding for 
capital investments.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

37

Energy-related CO2 emissions

Billion metric tons

40

30

20

10

0

Rest of world

Key growth

India

China

OECD323

2000                                   2020                                    2040

As the world’s population grows and living standards increase, we believe GHG 
emissions will plateau and start decreasing around 2030. In the OECD countries, 
energy-based GHG emissions have already peaked and are declining. To see the 
full report, visit our website.

3Represents OECD members minus Mexico and Turkey, which are included in the  
 key growth category.

We evaluate potential investments and projects using a  
wide range of economic conditions and commodity prices.  
We apply prudent and substantial margins in our planning 
assumptions to help ensure competitive returns over a wide 
range of market conditions. We also financially “stress test” 
our investment opportunities, which provides an added 
margin against uncertainties, such as those related to technol-
ogy development, costs, geopolitics, availability of required 
materials, services and labor. Stress testing, which differs from 
alternative scenario planning, further enables us to consider a 
wide range of market environments in our planning and  
investment process.

Managing climate change risksSunset over our Kearl Oil Sands project facility in Alberta, Canada, where in 2014 we completed construction of an 84-megawatt cogeneration facility.

Venting and fugitive emissions
In 2014, our venting and fugitive emissions totaled 3 million 
CO2-equivalent metric tons. This represents an increase of 0.8 
million metric tons of CO2-equivalent GHG emissions compared 
with our 2013 performance. While venting and fugitive emis-
sions, most of which are methane, represent less than 3 percent 
of our direct GHG emissions, we recognize the importance of 
reducing these emissions. We continue to look for cost-effective 
ways to reduce methane and other hydrocarbon emissions in 
our operations, such as replacing high-bleed pneumatic devices 
with lower-emission technology and conducting green well 
completions in targeted Upstream operations.

Additionally, we are working with academia, NGOs and gov-
ernments to better understand the magnitude and characteris-
tics of oil and gas industry methane emissions. One example is 
XTO Energy’s participation in University of Texas and Envi-
ronmental Defense Fund studies. These studies quantified the 
methane leakage rate in the United States from Upstream gas 
production activities at 0.4 percent of the total gas produced, 
validating Environmental Protection Agency estimates. 

Cogeneration
Through the ongoing incorporation of cogeneration into many 
of our facilities, ExxonMobil is able to generate power more 
efficiently than many local utilities. Cogeneration captures 
heat generated from the production of electricity for use in 
production, refining and chemical processing operations. Due 
to its inherent energy efficiency, the use of cogeneration also 
leads to reduced GHG emissions; our cogeneration facilities 
alone enable the avoidance of approximately 7 million metric 
tons per year of GHG emissions.

We have interests in approximately 5,500 megawatts of 
cogeneration capacity in more than 100 installations at more 
than 30 locations around the world. This capacity is equivalent 
to the annual energy needs of 2.5 million U.S. homes. In 2014, 
we added 250 megawatts of additional capacity at our Kearl 
and Cold Lake sites in Alberta, Canada, as well as 30 mega-
watts of additional capacity at our Grossenkneten facility in 
Germany. Since 2005, we have invested more than $1 billion in 
cogeneration projects, and we continue to develop additional 
investment opportunities.

Carbon capture and sequestration
Carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) involves capturing, 
transporting and sequestering CO2 in underground geologic 
formations such as saline reservoirs, depleted oil or gas res-
ervoirs, or deep coal beds. In the future, CCS will likely be one 
of several important technologies used to help reduce CO2 
emissions, with the greatest opportunity being in the coal- and 
natural gas-fired power sectors.

ExxonMobil has extensive operating experience with the 
component technologies of carbon capture and sequestration; 
we captured more than 6 million metric tons for sequestration 
in 2014 alone. Our LaBarge plant in Wyoming, which sells CO2 
to third parties for enhanced oil recovery, is one of the largest 
CO2 capture operations in the world. We have also successfully 
concluded operations at our Controlled Freeze ZoneTM (CFZTM) 
commercial demonstration unit at LaBarge. The technology 
is ready for commercial deployment and could provide a 
more cost-efficient approach to separating CO2 from natural 
gas, allowing for the CO2 to be geosequestered or used in 
enhanced oil recovery.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

38

Managing climate change risksAdditionally, together with partners, we have been capturing 
and sequestering CO2 at the Sleipner field in Norway since 
1996. ExxonMobil is also a joint-venture participant in the Gor-
gon natural gas project in Australia, which includes CCS. Once 
operational, Gorgon will have the largest reservoir CO2 injection 
facility in the world. We continue to look for economic oppor-
tunities to expand the use of existing CCS technologies and 
are pursuing proprietary research aimed at developing more 
efficient and cost-effective methods for CCS than traditional 
techniques have demonstrated. 

For additional details regarding ExxonMobil’s historical perfor-
mance related to GHG emissions and climate change mitiga-
tion measures, see page 72. 

Developing future technology 

ExxonMobil is conducting scientific research to discover inno-
vative approaches to developing existing and next-generation 
energy sources, while at the same time developing products 
that can enable more efficient energy consumption. We spend 
approximately $1 billion per year on research and technology 
development and have approximately 11,000 active patents.
ExxonMobil’s Corporate Strategic Research (CSR) laboratory  
is a fundamental research institution, with approximately  
150 Ph.D. scientists and engineers focused on addressing 
the company’s long-range science needs. The laboratory ’s 
scientists are recognized as world experts and authorities in 
their field. Our research portfolio includes a broad array of 
programs, including alternative energy, CCS, biofuels, life-cycle 
analysis, climate science and materials science.

The CSR laboratory also conducts strategic research with 
leading universities around the world. In 2014, ExxonMobil 
signed an agreement to join the MIT Energy Initiative, a collab-
oration aimed at working to advance and explore the future of 
energy. Additionally, ExxonMobil was a founding member of 
the Global Climate and Energy Project at Stanford University, 
which seeks to develop fundamental, game-changing scien-
tific breakthroughs that could lead to lower GHG emissions 
and a less carbon-intensive global energy system. Other 
university collaborations cover a wide range of scientific topics, 

Up Close:
Engineering resiliency  
into our operations

While most scientists agree climate change could pose 
risks related to extreme weather, sea level rise, temperature 
extremes and precipitation changes, the limited scientific 
understanding of the likelihood, magnitude, frequency or 
geographical distribution of these events poses a challenge in 
planning. Our facilities are designed, constructed and operated 
to withstand a variety of extreme climactic and other condi-
tions, with safety factors being built in to cover a number of 
engineering uncertainties, which cover those associated with 
potential climate change impacts. We continue to engage with 
major engineering societies, international organizations and 
industry groups to develop sound engineering perspectives on 
managing the risks of extreme weather.

from understanding the impacts of black carbon and aerosols 
(University of California, Riverside) to the fundamentals of bio-
mass pyrolysis used to make biofuels (Iowa State University).

For more than a decade, we have also worked with automo-
tive partners to study combustion fundamentals and devise 
concepts to improve the efficiency and reduce the emissions of 
engines. As an example, we developed an innovative onboard 
system that converts conventional hydrocarbon fuels such as 
gasoline or diesel into hydrogen for a fuel cell, eliminating the 
need for separate facilities to produce and distribute hydrogen. 
Measured on a “well-to-wheels” basis, this fuel system could 
be significantly more fuel-efficient and emit less CO2 than a 
traditional internal-combustion engine. We have also worked 
with Corning and Toyota to develop an onboard system that 
can increase the fuel efficiency of gasoline engines by about 
10 percent, using energy that would normally be wasted in the 
exhaust. For more examples of industry engagement, see the 
case study beginning on the next page.

In addition, ExxonMobil and Synthetic Genomics Inc. are 
co-funding a basic research program to develop advanced 
biofuels from algae. If successful, this technology could signifi-
cantly reduce GHG emissions in comparison with conventional 
fuels. While we have progressed since beginning this work in 
2009, algae biofuels research and development is a long-term 
endeavor that could take decades or more to commercialize 
at scale.

We also utilize in-house capabilities to conduct life cycle 
assessments (LCAs) of our products and activities. Recently, 
we published a report that details the life cycle GHG emissions 
for electricity generated from shale gas, including, for the first 
time, actual field data for natural gas produced from the Mar-
cellus and Barnett shales in the United States. These studies 
found the “well-to-wire” GHG emissions associated with shale 
gas are about half those of coal, and are not significantly dif-
ferent from the well-to-wire emissions of gas produced from 
traditional reservoirs.

Life Cycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Freshwater 
Consumption of Marcellus Shale Gas

ExxonMobil facilities, such as our Baytown (Texas) Refinery, are 
constructed and operated to withstand a variety of extreme conditions.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

39

Managing climate change risksCase study 

Innovation drives 
sustainability in 
Downstream and 
Chemical businesses

Case study – Innovation drives sustainability in 
Downstream and Chemical businesses 

Sustainability is an ongoing journey at ExxonMobil. Our employ-
ees are committed to innovation and continuous improvement. 
In both our Downstream and Chemical businesses, we have 
sustainability steering teams that meet regularly to drive our 
longer-term vision into multiyear strategic plans to improve our 
own operations, as well as provide sustainability benefits, such 
as increasing efficiency and reducing waste, for the entire value 
chain. We have the ability to make a sizable positive impact on 
society. Our products help customers and consumers con-
serve energy and reduce raw material use, which in turn can 
help reduce costs and lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
around the world.  

Chemical product benefits
Among the many product offerings in our Chemical busi-
ness, our materials used in automotive applications provide 

manufacturers and consumers with quantifiable benefits. 
For example, we manufacture butyl rubber — invented by 
ExxonMobil researchers in 1937 — which is utilized to produce 
tire innerliners. This material helps maintain optimal tire air 
pressure, which in turn contributes to improved vehicle fuel 
economy, tire durability and performance. Our next-generation 
tire innerliner materials have the potential to deliver further 
leading-edge air retention performance. Tires incorporating 
these new technologies provide the potential to reduce weight 
in the innerliner by up to 90 percent, while also improving 
rolling resistance and fuel efficiency.  

In the United States, it is estimated that 25 percent of vehicle 
tires are underinflated, leading to inefficient driving. If drivers 
in the United States kept their tires properly inflated, they 
could save up to 1 billion gallons of gasoline per year. Our 

ExxonMobil Chemical auto applications

Chassis

Sealing
systems

Interior

Under hood

Exterior

Tires

Fuel systems

Electrical

Thermoplastic vulcanizates

Synthetic rubber (EPDM)

Plasticizer

Polyethylene

Adhesives

Ethylene glycol

Polypropylene

Synthetic fluids and lubricant basestocks

Synthetic rubber (butyl)

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

40

 
Case study – Innovation drives sustainability in 
Downstream and Chemical businesses 

ongoing development of lighter, more efficient products aims 
to address this problem.

Life-cycle impacts of plastic 
packaging versus alternatives1

ExxonMobil products can be found in a variety of automotive 
parts. Plastic parts are typically much lighter than comparable 
metal parts, allowing drivers to save on fuel costs and reduce 
their cars’ emissions. To learn more, view this American Chem-
istry Council video. 

American Chemistry Council video

We also are developing innovative resins for use in plastic 
packaging products. According to a recent life cycle study, 
substituting a variety of plastics packaging with non-plastic 
alternatives — such as glass, paper, aluminum or steel — would 
increase the amount of packaging generated annually in the 
United States by 55 million tons. Plastics help significantly 
reduce packaging weight, which results in more products  
per shipment, fewer trucks on the road, less energy used, 
fewer GHG emissions and less material to reuse, recover  
and/or recycle.

ExxonMobil Chemical is continuing to help the food packaging 
industry “do more with less.” Innovations such as our ExceedTM 
and EnableTM metallocene polyethylene (mPE) product lines 
have allowed the average film thickness of high-performance 
heavy-duty bags to decrease from 200 microns in 1990 to 80 
microns today, while providing similar or sometimes better per-
formance. In a peer-reviewed study conducted by ExxonMobil 
Chemical researchers, heavy-duty sacks used for packaging 
made with our ExceedTM mPE product use 45 percent less 
energy, 70 percent less water, weigh half as much and provide 
more protection to the product as compared with a similar 
paper sack. 

ExxonMobil plastic products also contribute to safety within 
the food industry. According to the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations, one-third of the food pro-
duced in the world goes to waste each year. Plastic packaging 
can help reduce spoilage, increase access to food and improve 
food safety for consumers around the world.

Food and Agriculture Organization

Total mass
Tons

Energy consumption
Gigajoules

GHG emissions
Tons of CO2e

3.5x
heavier

70.7M

2.3x
GHG
emissions

134.4M

1.8x
energy

2,466M

15.8M

58.6M

1,357M

1Based on 2010 data.

Franklin Associates 2014 study for the American  
Chemistry Council

strides were made in integrating sustainability efforts of the 
consolidated Fuels & Lubricants company, with each global 
business unit contributing actions specific to its industry. 

A sustainability feature of synthetic lubricants, for vehicle or 
industrial use, is a longer drain interval than conventional 
mineral oils. The lubricant may be replaced less often, reducing 
the amount of waste oil to dispose or recycle. It also means 
personnel change the oil less often, increasing efficiency while 
limiting exposure to machinery and elements, and lowering 
costs. These advantages are especially important in wind 
turbine applications, where the machinery can be hundreds of 
feet in the air and exposed to weather. Mobilgear SHC XMP 
320 is used in more than 40,000 wind turbines worldwide. 

MobilTM industrial lubricant products are designed to help cus-
tomers extend the life of their equipment, reduce maintenance 
and improve efficiency within their operations. We collaborate 
with our customers to ensure our products are used to their 
highest potential for efficiency within the context of each cus-
tomer’s specific operations. Specific examples from industrial 
customers around the world include:

•  Chantilly Crushed Stone, a Virginia aggregate quarry, relies 

on two large-haul trucks to move more than 60 85-ton loads 
of stone per day from its quarry pit. Previously, the company 
overhauled its truck engines after 12,000 hours and strug-
gled to maintain oil drain intervals of 250 hours. After inves-
tigation and analysis by ExxonMobil engineers, coupled with 
implementing ExxonMobil’s Mobil ServSM Lubricant Analysis, 
the company now uses Mobil DelvacTM 1300 Super 15W-40. 
It reports extending its engine overhaul intervals beyond 
21,000 hours and doubling its drain intervals. Allowing for 
reduced waste, increased production and minimal downtime 
has helped generate nearly $1.2 million in production value 
savings for Chantilly Crushed Stone.* 

Fuels & Lubricants product benefits
ExxonMobil works on research and development of new 
lubricants, fuels and powertrains, often directly with automak-
ers and original equipment manufacturers, in pursuit of higher 
vehicle efficiency and lower emissions. In 2014, important 

•  Coeur Mexicana, S.A de C.V, a Mexican mining company, 
operates a ball mill that was previously lubricated with a 
standard mineral oil, leading its gearbox to run at tempera-
tures reaching as high as 90 degrees Celsius. When the 
components exceed a certain high temperature threshold, 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

41

 
 
We recognize our journey will not be achieved overnight 
— it will take continued engagement with our employees 
and customers to ensure our operations are as efficient 
as possible. We will continue on the path to ensure our 
products and services provide tangible sustainability 
benefits for customers and consumers.

For more information on these and other lubricant  
products, please see our website.

ExxonMobil lubricant products

Case study – Innovation drives sustainability in 
Downstream and Chemical businesses 

the system automatically shuts down to avoid potential 
equipment breakdown, bringing production to a halt. 
After engaging with ExxonMobil, the company now uses 
Mobil SHCTM 632 synthetic oil, scientifically engineered 
to reduce overall friction, increase efficiency in sliding 
mechanisms and potentially reduce operation tempera-
tures. Coeur Mexicana reports successfully reducing 
temperatures by more than 10 degrees Celsius and gen-
erating annual savings of $470,000, as well as improving 
operational safety, limiting employee interaction with 
machinery for maintenance.* 

•  Mamut Peru SAC, a Peruvian mining contractor, lubricates 
the heavy-duty engines in its entire fleet of trucks with 
Mobil Delvac MX™ 15W-40 heavy-duty diesel engine 
oil. The company maintained oil drain intervals of 10,000 
kilometers before experiencing increased production and 
demand for more equipment availability. Working with 
ExxonMobil engineers, the company reports extending  
its drain intervals to every 20,000 kilometers, reducing 
waste and leading to an annual cost savings of more  
than $96,000.*

“Having ExxonMobil and its distributor Nor Oil as a  
lubrication partner has been enormously beneficial.  
Through the use of Mobil Delvac MX™ 15W-40 heavy-
duty diesel engine oil and the implementation of  
ExxonMobil’s Mobil ServSM Lubricant Analysis, we have 
seen a number of operational benefits, from increased 
equipment availability to reduced waste oil generation. 
With its vast range of expertise, products and services, 
ExxonMobil and its distributor Nor Oil continue to sup-
port the successful operation of our fleet.” 

—  Juan David Narva Novoa, maintenance coordinator,  

Mamut Peru SAC

Our lubricant products, such as those produced at our Tianjin Lubricant 
Plant in China, are designed to help customers improve efficiency within 
their operations.

*This proof of performance is based on the experience of a single  
 customer. Actual results may vary depending upon the type of equipment   
 used; its maintenance, operating conditions and environment; and any   
 prior lubricant used.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

42

 
 
 
Community and 
social impact

Women in Tanzania utilizing an irrigation pump provided 
by KickStart International, an ExxonMobil partner.  
We seek to engage with stakeholders in local communities  
on a regular basis to share information and identify any 
issues or concerns.

ExxonMobil’s Protect Tomorrow. Today.  
expectations serve as the foundation of the 
company’s commitment to operating in a manner  
that is both environmentally and socially responsible. 
This commitment includes addressing social and 
economic needs to ensure stronger futures for the 
communities where we work.

 $835 million

contributed to education programs around the world 
over the past decade

“It is not black and white when it comes to  
helping create development opportunities.  
There is no easy solution to any issue, but the  
best answers always come from within the  
community itself. We can’t operate our business 
without our communities — and we don’t. 
Having strong local relationships through a  
commitment to maintaining dialogue is critical;  
it helps ensure that the impact we make is beneficial 
and sustained by all parties.”

 — Sisa Kini 

Community development 
support manager,  
Papua New Guinea

Respecting human rights 

ExxonMobil actively promotes respect for human rights and is 
committed to complying with all applicable laws and regula-
tions. Our fundamental approach to human rights is consistent 
with the United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights. The Guiding Principles, released 
in 2011, outline the different, yet complementary, roles of 
government and business with regard to human rights: the 
government’s duty to protect human rights and corporations’ 
responsibility to respect them. ExxonMobil ensures awareness 
of potential adverse human rights impacts and implements 
appropriate prevention measures. For information on detecting 
and preventing potential human rights risks in our supply chain, 
see page 60. 

We work closely with governments, civil society and indus-
try to strengthen implementation of the Guiding Principles. 
We actively support IPIECA in its human rights-related work 
and provided input into the 2013 application of the Guiding 
Principles to the oil and gas industry guidance document, as 
well as a 2014 manual on community grievance mechanisms. 
The manual, which also forms part of the industry response 
on operational due diligence relating to the Guiding Principles, 
provides practical, step-by-step guidance on how to plan and 
implement community grievance mechanisms at the opera-
tional level, as well as how to design and manage corporate 
community grievance mechanism frameworks.

Since 2002, we have actively participated in the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights, a set of principles 
designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and 
security of their operations within an operating framework 
that encourages respect for human rights. Our Statement and 
Framework on Security and Human Rights helps implement 
the Voluntary Principles and includes guidance on work-
ing with host governments and private security personnel. 
ExxonMobil consistently emphasizes the importance of respect 
for human rights with host governments and private secu-
rity firms. In addition, we have agreements with the private 
security firms with which we work that contain requirements 
to uphold human rights. These include expectations for 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

44

compliance with relevant local, U.N. and other security- 
related frameworks.

For years, ExxonMobil has conducted human rights aware-
ness training for personnel who work in high-risk areas. This 
training includes information about the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights, the requirements of ExxonMobil’s 
Statement and Framework on Security and Human Rights and 
expectations regarding the implementation of the Framework 
in a given country. In 2014, we completed a pilot of a new 
computer-based human rights training module aimed at further 
strengthening human rights awareness among employees and 
select business partners working in high-risk areas. We plan to 
roll out the training module formally in 2015. ExxonMobil has 
also developed other training programs that contain a human 
rights component, including a training module for our socio-
economic team. We have trained people from 17 countries to 
date, with more training sessions scheduled for 2015.

Our commitment to human rights extends to our workforce 
and is supported by our Standards of Business Conduct and 
our Statement on Labor and the Workplace, the latter of which 
articulates our support for the principles of the International 
Labor Organization (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work, namely the elimination of child 
labor, forced labor and workplace discrimination. 

ExxonMobil’s standard contract language requires adherence 
to all applicable laws and regulations, including those related 
to safety, security, health and the environment. Our procure-
ment group includes clauses in requests for quotations that 
require our business partners to abide by the prohibition of 
child and forced labor and the payment of wages in accor-
dance with local regulations.

Managing community impacts

The success and sustainability of our business depend on how 
well we manage socioeconomic impacts and address the 
interests of the communities in which we work. Proactively 
identifying, avoiding and managing potential impacts,  
while also enhancing community benefits, is integral to 

Community and social impactcompleting projects successfully and developing long-term, 
positive relationships.

Our Upstream Socioeconomic Management Standard for 
Projects, released in 2010, is designed to help us identify 
potential socioeconomic impacts and their associated risks 
early in the Upstream asset life cycle, then develop and imple-
ment appropriate avoidance, reduction, remedy and monitor-
ing measures. The socioeconomic aspects of our business fall 
into seven broad categories, as depicted below.  

Cultural heritage
and diversity

Transparency
and corruption

Indigenous
peoples

Land use and
resettlement

Economic
development

Human rights

Community
relations

Up Close: 
Community engagement  
in Cameroon

The modification of the existing Chad Export Project’s 
pipeline was completed in 2014 to support the construc-
tion of the Lom-Pangar hydroelectric dam in Cameroon. 
Construction of the dam and creation of its associated 
reservoir required the modification of 27 kilometers of 
the existing Chad Export Project’s pipeline. Cameroon 
Oil Transportation Company (COTCO) — partly owned by 
Esso Pipeline Investments Limited, an ExxonMobil affiliate 
— and the government-overseen Dam Project signed an 
agreement to manage the environmental and socioeco-
nomic interfaces between the two projects. Their teams 
conducted joint community engagement sessions so the 
collective impacts and mitigation approaches for both 
projects could be identified and discussed. Employment 
opportunities were also addressed jointly, with both proj-
ects in the same area agreeing to better utilize the local 
worker pool and ensure work continuity between the  
two projects.

These topics reach across multiple disciplines within the corpo-
ration and are discussed throughout the report. Four topics will 
be covered below: community relations, indigenous peoples, 
cultural heritage and diversity, and land use and resettlement. 
For information on transparency and corruption, see the 
corporate governance chapter (beginning on page 63), and for 
economic development, see the local development and supply 
chain management chapter (beginning on page 57).

One concern was that the new roads constructed for the  
projects could make access into the adjacent and newly 
created Deng Deng National Park (DDNP) more difficult to 
control. In response, COTCO entered into a memorandum 
of understanding with the Ministry of Forest and Fauna to 
construct two guard posts at the DDNP entrance points 
and provide additional vehicles for eco-guards. In response 
to engagement with the local village of Biboko, COTCO 

COTCO-provided vehicles for Deng Deng National Park eco-guards.

funded a community house, which villagers had decided 
would best benefit the entire community. 

The overlap between the two projects made the filing of 
grievances or complaints initially confusing to some local vil-
lagers. The projects collaborated to address those community 
concerns, with clear guidance as to which entity grievances 
should be directed. This approach allowed both projects to 
respond effectively to community concerns and maintain a  
good relationship with neighboring communities.

Community relations
As part of any proposed project activity, we seek to engage 
with stakeholders in local communities on a regular basis to 
share information and identify any issues or concerns. We 
then integrate the results of these discussions into our project 
decision-making process. Early consultation allows us to avert 
or reduce our impacts on communities, prevent project dis-
ruptions, avoid delays, reduce costs and prevent the escalation 
of issues. According to external studies,1 nearly 75 percent of 

project delays are due to non-technical issues such as changes 
in regulations, the political environment or stakeholder issues.

Our Best Practices in External Affairs (BPEA) and a project’s 
Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA)  
and/or Environmental, Social and Health Management Plan  
define location-specific community awareness programs and 

government relations protocols. The BPEA process helps us 
identify the specific needs, expectations and interests of host 
communities and aligns those needs with our community 
investment programs. The ESHIA process helps us identify 
the potential impacts a project could have and the ways to 

1 The New Politics of Natural Resources, ERM, June 2009; data source:  
Goldman Sachs. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

45

Community and social impacteliminate, reduce or remedy those impacts. Once a project 
starts, we provide local groups and individuals with a way to air 
grievances and concerns without fear of retribution. For more 
information about our grievance management process, see 
pages 47 and 55.

Up Close: 
Working with indigenous 
peoples in Western Canada

Indigenous peoples
Our operations are sometimes based in areas inhabited or 
historically used by indigenous peoples. We respect and work 
with these communities to protect their cultures and customs 
and provide mutually beneficial training, employment and 
business opportunities through local content programs and 
strategic community investments. Our approach to interacting 
with indigenous peoples around the world is consistent with 
the principles of the ILO Convention 169 Concerning Indige-
nous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, the United 
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance 
Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, and 
the World Bank Operational Policy and Bank Procedure on 
Indigenous Peoples.

We participate on the IPIECA task force on Free Prior and 
Informed Consent (FPIC), which focuses on gaining clarity on 
the definition and best practices for implementation. In 2014, 
IPIECA continued to monitor developments in the international 
policy environment and hold periodic calls, sessions and webi-
nars to share local knowledge and discuss emerging issues. 

Our key objective is to determine how these communities 
prefer to be engaged. The community establishes its pref-
erence for how often and how long its members meet with 
ExxonMobil representatives, and who will provide its view-
points or represent its wishes. We are sensitive to concerns 
around balancing cultural heritage with the desire for eco-
nomic development, even after our operations have ceased. 

Cultural heritage and diversity
At ExxonMobil, our respect for the cultural heritage and 
customs of local communities carries into our business 
practices, where we leverage specific studies to deepen the 
knowledge among our workforce. For more information on 
our local workforce initiatives, see page 58. We incorporate 

Preventing or mitigating adverse social impacts and promot-
ing opportunities with local communities are integral parts of 
ExxonMobil affiliate Imperial’s development plan in the Fort 
McMurray region of Alberta, Canada. Throughout the planning, 
development and construction phases of our projects, we have 
collaborated with local aboriginal groups, provincial and local 
governments, and other industries on shared key issues, includ-
ing infrastructure development, land and water use, regulatory 
policy, local community support and capacity building.

However, our engagement does not stop once we have 
regulatory approval. Continuing to build and strengthen our 
relationships with the indigenous peoples who have historic 
cultural connections to the land where our operations are 
located continues to be important. These communities are 
our closest neighbors in remote northern Alberta. Working 
together provides business, training and employment opportu-
nities, which in turn brings economic prosperity to the region. 
However, the remoteness and isolation of some communities 
creates other challenges. 

Through our ongoing engagement and strong positive rela-
tionships with local aboriginal groups, we recognized there 
were multiple community priorities. For example, the Mikisew 
Cree First Nation wanted to build a new elder care center in 
Fort Chipewyan. It would be the first and only long-term care 
facility in the remote community, and would provide an alter-
native to relocating seniors who require assisted living to Fort 
McMurray or other parts of Alberta. Imperial contributed $1 
million between 2013 and 2014 toward the development of 
the facility, which is now available to all Elders in the commu-
nity. The contribution from Imperial, and those from several 
other industry sponsors, provided funding for the critical 
phases of the facility’s construction.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

46

Imperial-funded elder care center in Fort Chipewyan.

Community and social impactconsiderations such as cultural, spiritual or sacred heritage 
sites and areas; biodiversity conservation; traditional knowl-
edge; and sustainable resource management into project plan-
ning, design, execution and ongoing operations. We use an 
established cultural heritage identification process prior to the 
start of work in an area and identify potential sites of cultural 
significance through our community stakeholder engagement 
process. Working with our contractors, we take a careful 
approach to preserving cultural sites and artifacts.

For example, early consultation with the local communities 
near our Banyu Urip project in Indonesia revealed there 
were a number of sendangs, or water springs, that would be 
impacted by the project development. Local communities use 
sendangs to meet a variety of their water-related needs and 
consider them to be holy places. Working together with  
the communities, we hosted appropriate ceremonies to relo-
cate the spirits from one sendang to another sendang.

“In regards to people’s safety and ExxonMobil Cepu  
Limited’s (EMCL) commitment to preserve local wisdom, 
EMCL agreed to reconstruct the sendangs that were inside 
the project perimeter to the spacious Sendang Legung.  
We appreciate EMCL’s effort to relocate the sendangs  
and renovate Sendang Legung.” 

 — Setyo Yuliono, head of Gayam subdistrict,  

Bojonegoro, Indonesia 

As another example, in 2013 our exploration for unconven-
tional gas resources in western Argentina led to the discovery 
of significant dinosaur fossils during access-road construction. 
The fossils were from a herd of Titanosaurus Sauropods and a 
cranium from a Theropod — one of only two Theropods found 
in the area in the past 100 years. We immediately stopped 
work and diverted our operations to ensure the integrity of the 
discovery site. ExxonMobil provided materials and services to a 
team of four paleontologists, two assistants and one photog-
rapher. The team is finishing the cleaning of the fossils and 
comparing them with other fossils in nearby museums. 

We conduct town hall meetings to listen to community concerns and foster close relationships with local stakeholders.

Up Close: 
Grievance management 
mechanism in Indonesia 

ExxonMobil has a long history in Indonesia — Socony, a  
Mobil predecessor, opened a marketing office in Java in 1898, 
and Esso entered Indonesia in 1912. Initial oil production from 
the Banyu Urip field began in 2008. Construction activities for 
the project, which produces oil onshore and transports it by 
pipeline for deliveries from an offshore floating storage and 
offloading vessel, started in December 2011. As of December 
2014, the project was 92 percent complete, and is expected 
to reach daily production capacity of 165,000 barrels in 2015. 

This project is located in the densely populated area of Bojone-
goro, on the eastern part of the island of Java. Over the past 
several years, we have actively worked with local communities 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

47

in the project area to address some inherent challenges they 
face. There is a high unemployment rate among community 
members of working age, and the communities have had 
increasingly high expectations related to job and business 
opportunities and community support programs throughout 
the progression of the Banyu Urip project. Land ownership 
disputes have also been a particular challenge. 

We approached the challenge proactively by forming a 
socioeconomic team that included specialized disciplines, as 
well as project personnel ready to develop close relationships 
with community stakeholders. In 2012, the project established 
a Grievance Management Procedure with a commitment 
to resolve outstanding grievances and ensure concerns are 
addressed in a timely manner through open dialogue with 
the community. By the end of 2014, all but 14 of the 424 total 
received grievances had been resolved. 

Community and social impact“The findings during the two excavations have been 
extraordinary. We found two samples of the Theropod 
species, a completely articulated Titanosaur, including the 
cranium, and various fossils of freshwater turtles, fish and 
dinosaur eggs. These results demonstrate the richness of 
this region that will allow further studies and understanding 
of the formation. We want to thank ExxonMobil for their 
continuous support and contribution to the preservation of 
the area.”  

 — Leonardo Filippi, director of the Museum Argentino  

Urquiza of Rincon de los Sauces and lead paleontologist  
of the project

Land use and resettlement
We understand community members often have concerns 
about how our operations may affect their land and way of  
life. We take a structured approach to respecting property 
rights in communities where we operate, and we pay particu-
lar attention to those areas populated by indigenous peoples. 
Wherever land is required for Upstream projects, we adhere 
to the applicable host-country regulatory requirements that 
govern land acquisition activities and our Land Use Standard.  
If projects are externally financed, we also comply with land 
use, access and resettlement requirements stipulated by  
the lender(s).

Site selection is a key process when managing land use- 
related impacts, including in those areas inhabited or used by 
indigenous peoples. Several locations are typically assessed 
based on technical criteria such as availability, accessibility, 
safety, security and constructability, as well as other criteria 
such as reducing environmental and social impacts. The crite-
ria are then evaluated and locations are ranked to determine 
the lowest overall risk and preferred options. 

For example, ExxonMobil is currently partnering in a poten-
tial offshore gas and LNG plant development project in the 
southern coastal region of Tanzania. Early in the exploration 
phase, the partners agreed to conduct a site selection process 
aligned with national environmental impact legislation and IFC 
Performance Standards requirements. Initially, the partners 
conducted the process independently, using Tanzanian and 

international experts to gather and analyze the available 
technical, environmental and social data on potential sites. 
Most sites were disqualified or eliminated because of elevated 
impacts or risks in one or more of these categories, resulting in 
a short list of six sites that were ranked in terms of differential 
impacts and risks across seven technical and 10 environmen-
tal and social criteria. The evaluation criteria were aimed at 
ensuring the site selection process focused on the technical 
feasibility and cost of construction and operation, while at the 
same time avoiding significant adverse risks and impacts and 
enhancing benefits to the local population, the environment 
and Tanzanian society. Upon completion of the assessment, 
a site selection report and recommendation on the preferred 
site were provided to the government. The government of 
Tanzania supported the preferred site location and has initiated 
its statutory process to acquire the site while recognizing the 
partners’ requirements.

Up Close: 
Providing humanitarian 
assistance in Kurdistan

In response to a request from the Kurdistan Regional 
Government, ExxonMobil and our affiliate ExxonMobil 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq Limited contributed $1.5 million 
to International Medical Corps (IMC) to aid both Syrian 
refugees and Internally Displaced Persons near our 
exploration operations. IMC used the funds to deploy mobile 
medical units to fill gaps in health care and scale up health 
education and outreach, particularly among women, children 
and the elderly. The grant enabled more than 33,000 people 
to receive primary health care consultations, of which  
86 percent were women, children and the elderly. 
Additionally, more than 27,000 people participated in  
health education sessions. Given the ongoing challenges  
in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, ExxonMobil is committed  
to caring for our neighbors in this region. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

48

Strategic community 
investments 

Our strategic community investments complement our 
business and are aligned with a country’s economic and social 
goals. In 2014, we contributed $279 million to communities 
around the world. We focus the majority of our spending on 
our signature, corporate-led initiatives to improve education, 
combat malaria and advance economic opportunities for 
women. We then supplement our corporate-led initiatives with 
local, community-specific programs that range from workforce 
development efforts to responding to natural disasters. We 
consider the development goals of each community when 

2014 community investments 
by focus area1

Millions of dollars

Arts and culture

$4

Employee and
retiree giving

$42

Women

$12

Public policy 
research 

$8

Precollege 
education

$38

Worldwide total

$279

United 
appeals and 
workplace giving

$7

Higher 
education

$50

Civic and
community

$76

Other
education

$7

Health

$30

Environment

$5

1Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our 
  divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee 
  and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and   
  employee giving programs.

Community and social impact 
   
deciding where, when and how best to invest, and  
we often participate in public-private partnerships and  
ongoing stakeholder engagement to improve social and  
economic conditions.

In order to maximize the long-term sustainability and benefits 
of our efforts, we continue to improve our understanding of 
our programs’ impacts. In 2013, we enhanced the measure-
ment frameworks of our philanthropic programs. We continue 
to incorporate our findings, in close collaboration with our 
partners, into designing more robust measurement and 
evaluation plans and enhancing our partners’ measurement 
capacity. Throughout this report, wherever possible, we have 
described outcomes of our investments, beyond dollars spent 
and activities conducted. 

Education initiative
We invest in education programs that focus on inspiring 
students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics (STEM), including programs that support 
teacher development and training. Global economic growth 
relies upon highly skilled individuals, particularly those well-

trained in STEM fields. No 
single classroom factor is 
more important to improving 
educational outcomes than 
the quality of the teacher. 
This initiative has a direct 
impact on our business, as 
scientists and engineers are 
critical to addressing the 

energy challenges of today and tomorrow. Over the past  
15 years, we have contributed more than $1 billion for educa-
tion programs around the world, with $95 million contributed 
in 2014 alone. Furthermore, in 2014 we launched Be An 
Engineer, an initiative to help students better understand the 
engineering field and the opportunities it offers. The program, 
which includes a broad range of original and shared content, 
highlights the meaningful contributions engineers make in the 
world. For more on our efforts on education initiatives in 2014, 
see the Up Close boxes on the following two pages.

Malaria initiative
In several countries where we operate, malaria continues to 
have a significant impact on local communities. The good 
news, however, is the number of deaths and infections con-
tinues to decline. Since 2000, mortality rates have decreased 
by 47 percent worldwide — and by 54 percent in Africa. From 
2000 to 2014, antimalarial 
programs we funded have 
reached more than 124 
million people. Our sup-
port has helped distribute 
more than 13.5 million 
bed nets, 2.1 million doses 
of antimalarial treatments 
and 2.2 million rapid diag-
nostic kits, as well as train 

Photo credit: Catholic Relief Services

more than 400,000 health workers. We describe our efforts on 
malaria in more detail in the case study on page 20. 

Women’s economic opportunity initiative
Identifying and implementing community investment pro-
grams that enhance local economic development is a business 
objective. One of the most effective ways to do so is through 
economically empowering women. According to a 2014 
World Bank Gender at Work report, women are key drivers of 
economic progress and development: they consistently invest 
in their children and communities. 

The goal of our women’s economic opportunity initiative is 
to help women fulfill their economic potential and improve 

their well-being and 
that of their families and 
communities. We invest in 
programs proven to pro-
vide women with the skills 
and resources needed to 
increase their productivity 
and income. Our invest-

ments focus on three key areas: supporting research to identify 
effective interventions; developing women farmers, entrepre-
neurs and business leaders; and improving women’s access to 
technology. Over the past 10 years, ExxonMobil has invested 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

49

more than $82 million in promoting economic opportunities 
for women. This support has reached tens of thousands of 
women in more than 90 countries. Our contributions in 2014 
totaled $12 million. See the Up Close boxes on pages 52 and 
62 for more information on our efforts with this initiative. 

More information about these signature initiatives can be 
viewed on our website.

ExxonMobil Foundation 

2014 community investments
by geographic region2

Millions of dollars

United States

$150

Worldwide total

$279

Latin America

$3

Canada

$16

Africa/Middle East

$58

Asia Pacific

$22

Europe/Caspian

$30

2Total contributions include donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our 
 divisions and affiliates, and the ExxonMobil Foundation, as well as employee 
 and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and   
 employee giving programs.

Community and social impact   
Up Close: 
Education initiative:  
United States

Education is the fundamental building block of individual 
opportunity and economic growth, and STEM skills, in par-
ticular, are critical to ensuring today’s students are prepared 
for the jobs of the 21st century. Over the past few years, we 
have narrowed the focus of our U.S. education programs to 
help address the STEM challenge and are investing in fewer 
but larger-scale programs — ones with the potential to make 
a national impact. We focus on three key areas: training highly 
qualified teachers in math and science; encouraging students 
from all backgrounds to pursue math and science; and graduat-
ing more students from high school ready for success in college 
and careers. In 2014, we invested $26 million in STEM-related 
programs in the United States and $26 million in international 
education programs.  

First-year increase in math 
and science AP test scores

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

All students

African-American and 
Hispanic students

Female students

U.S. students

Students in NMSI College Readiness Program

In 2007, ExxonMobil joined with other companies and 
foundations to initiate a national public-private partnership to 
meet the STEM challenge in the United States: the National 
Math and Science Initiative (NMSI). NMSI’s College Readi-
ness Program provides training for teachers to help students 
master Advanced Placement (AP) courses in math, science and 
English. Based on College Board data, the first-year increase in 
qualifying math and science exam scores among NMSI partner 
schools was 76 percent — nearly 10 times the national average. 
Performance among traditionally underserved students in the 
NMSI program was equally impressive: The first-year increase 
in qualifying scores in math and science among African- 
American and Hispanic students was 93 percent, nearly nine 
times the national average. For female students, the increase 
was 79 percent, more than 10 times the national average.  

Another key NMSI program, UTeach, encourages undergrad-
uate math and science majors to enter the teaching profession 
by offering an integrated-degree plan, financial assistance  
and early teaching experience. As of spring 2014, more than 
2,100 students have graduated from UTeach programs at  
39 universities in 19 states.

In partnership with professional golfer Phil Mickelson and his 
wife, Amy, we also support teachers through the Mickelson 
ExxonMobil Teachers Academy. Since its inception 11 years 
ago, more than 4,500 elementary school teachers have been 
trained at the Academy in innovative teaching methods and 
hands-on applications of math and science, impacting the lives 
of more than 300,000 students nationwide. 

Since 2006, we have partnered with former astronaut  
Bernard Harris to increase diversity in STEM fields. Through 
the Bernard Harris Summer Science Camp, we have helped 
more than 8,700 middle-school students from underrepre-
sented and underserved populations attend these all-expense-
paid residential camps to improve student knowledge of 
STEM subjects, encourage youth to stay in school, and foster 
leadership and citizenship.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

50

Students in Fort Worth, Texas, participating in NMSI’s College Readiness Program.

Common Core State Standards 
Forty-three states and the District of Columbia have adopted 
the Common Core State Standards (CCSS) to improve 
students’ chances of success in college and their careers. 
ExxonMobil is actively voicing its support for the adoption and 
full implementation of the CCSS and their related assessments. 
The states developed the Standards in a process initiated and 
led by the nation’s governors, state school superintendents, 
local educators, parents and business leaders. We are support-
ing states as they work to implement the Standards in their 
schools and are encouraging business leaders to advocate for 
improved educational outcomes for our students.

Community and social impact 
Up Close: 
Education initiative: 
international

Education ranks as one of the most important policy issues to 
improve global economic development. The World Bank has 
concluded education is a powerful driver of development and 
improved health, peace and stability. As a result, we award 
scholarships in developing nations and establish local partner-
ships with organizations that have close ties with a country ’s 
educational system. The following examples are just three of 
many country-led education initiatives that ExxonMobil affil-
iates support. For additional information on these programs 
and other examples of our global corporate citizenship initia-
tives, please see the global stories section of our website. 

Global stories

Egypt
ExxonMobil Egypt recently partnered with the Misr El-Kheir 
Foundation, a local NGO, and the Ministry of Education on a 
three-year initiative to create a new STEM education program 
at the Advanced Technical Industries School of Suez. The pro-
gram’s goal is to create a higher-quality educational environ-
ment by enhancing teacher quality and providing a successful 
model of STEM education for schools.

Students participating in a STEM program at the Advanced Technical 
Industries School of Suez in Egypt.

ExxonMobil Egypt’s contribution helped with curricula devel-
opment, capacity building of teachers and administrators in 
cooperation with training provided by the American University 
in Cairo, and funding for lab equipment. In the first academic 
year of the program (2013–2014), the school ranked first 
among vocational schools in Egypt, and of the 68 students 
enrolled in the program, nine won first place in the regional 
science competition and third place countrywide. Further-
more, the Ministry of Education plans to replicate the curricula 
in all vocational schools across Egypt.

“The program is a real addition to us in the industrial educa-
tion field and a breakthrough in the technical education field 
that Suez never experienced before.” 

 — Engineer Khaled Fahim, headmaster, Advanced Technical 

Industries School of Suez 

Qatar
ExxonMobil Qatar partnered with the National Center for 
Educator Development at Qatar University and the Supreme 
Education Council to pilot a program to help enhance teaching 
skills and motivate students to pursue careers in math and 
science. Now in its third year, the Qatar University ExxonMobil 
Teachers Academy is a week-long training program aimed at 
enhancing teachers’ understanding of math and science con-
tent, facilitating student learning through problem solving and 
inquiry, and equipping teachers with interactive learning tools 
to support differentiated instruction. Since 2012, more than 
120 teachers have taken part in the program, enhancing math 
and science education at more than 85 schools. The Academy, 
modeled after the Mickelson ExxonMobil Teachers Academy  
in the United States, has become a flagship community pro-
gram in Qatar,  and received positive recognition from senior  
levels of government.

“Qatar has a responsibility to invest in the education needed 
to help develop people and communities, and foster the 
intellectual capacity required to address society ’s future 
challenges. With our partner, ExxonMobil Qatar, we will 
continue to work together on projects such as the Qatar 
University ExxonMobil Teachers Academy to enhance 
educational excellence in science and mathematics, so that 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

51

Qatar’s students can excel in leadership roles in Qatari  
society and the global workforce.” 

 — Dr. Sheikha Abdulla Al-Misnad, president,  

Qatar University

China
ExxonMobil China affiliates partner with organizations such 
as Junior Achievement (JA) China to volunteer and organize 
events to educate children in local communities. In 2014, 24 
volunteers from ExxonMobil China affiliates conducted a “Let’s 
Go Green” workshop for 120 children of migrant workers at 
Shanghai’s Tangwan Primary School in Minhang district, located 
near ExxonMobil’s Shanghai Technology Center. The innova-
tive curriculum on sustainable city development and energy 
efficiency helped spark curiosity about new subjects the children 
had little or no exposure to previously. ExxonMobil employee 
volunteers also went to three universities to deliver “Career Go” 
workshops to university students. These programs are examples 
of how ExxonMobil and its affiliates continue our long-standing 
support of JA in multiple countries throughout the world.

Students in China learning about sustainable city development and 
energy efficiency.

“We’re proud that 300 employees have donated more than 
4,500 hours of volunteer service since 2010 to educate stu-
dents who typically do not have access to such resources.” 

 — Teoh Song Ping, general manager, ExxonMobil (China) 

Investment Co., Ltd.

Community and social impactUp Close: 
Deploying technologies  
that accelerate women’s  
economic advancement

Several leading organizations and research projects have 
identified improved access to technology as a key driver in 
promoting women’s economic empowerment. Through our 
women’s economic opportunity initiative, we bring simple 
life-changing technologies to women entrepreneurs and 
farmers. Our efforts have included developing a global tech-
nology challenge to help find and nurture the most prom-
ising innovations, and supporting efforts to enable closer 
collaboration among innovators, development experts and 
investors on ways to bring them to market more efficiently. 
Examples of technology programs we support and their 
direct impacts on women include: 

KickStart 
We partner with KickStart International to integrate manually 
powered irrigation pumps into our existing women’s farmer 
programs in Angola and Chad, helping women access water 
more easily, saving the time, expense and labor required to 
transport it. In the process, women farmers are able to scale 
up production from their commercial vegetable gardens. 
Since 2012, KickStart has delivered nearly 2,000 pumps to 
farmers in Chad and Angola and conducted on-the-ground 
training to ensure proper operation.

Alsabour Djemil, a farmer in Chad, started using the pump 
through the program in February 2013. Since then, she has 
increased her income fivefold and doubled the size of her 
farm. With the extra income, Alsabour is paying for her chil-
dren’s education, purchased a piece of land to build a house, 
bought basic supplies, and spent less time farming, while 
still realizing a greater production yield. She says she is now 
empowered to contribute to family decision-making and 
there is more equity in her relationship with her husband.

Solar Sister 
Solar Sister was formed to empower women in rural  
Uganda by providing modern energy access. Using a  
neighbor-to-neighbor distribution system, the program 
helps women entrepreneurs deliver solar and clean-cooking 
technology solutions to their communities. In 2013, Solar 
Sister launched operations in Nigeria, with 45 entrepreneurs 
participating in three regions. In the pilot program, they sold 
more than 500 solar lights and clean cookstoves — devices 
aimed at improving air quality and sustaining community 
health. As of year-end 2014, 184 Nigerian women have 
joined the organization, selling nearly 2,500 products across 
14 states. 

Solar Sister participant in Nigeria.

Iniobong Okon, a retired nurse who opened a maternity 
clinic, first heard of Solar Sister through her patient, Blessing, 
a Solar Sister team member. Iniobong bought a cookstove 
and solar lights, which she used in her clinic to provide 
health services after dark and when there was no electricity. 
Iniobong has also shared the benefits of solar technologies 
with shopkeepers in her community who were experienc-
ing business difficulties due to interruptions in the national 
power grid. Iniobong uses the extra income from her Solar 
Sister activities to continue providing care for the women in 
her community and delivering children in bright rooms with 
no open flames or fumes. 

For more information about our women’s economic 
opportunity initiative and the programs we support, please  
see our website.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

52

Employee participation

We foster a culture that encourages employees to contribute 
to the communities where they live and work, by granting 
time off from work to volunteer with charitable organiza-
tions. Around the world, our employees are involved in local 
communities by becoming mentors to students, supporting 
local food banks and providing environmental education 
opportunties, among other activities. We also encourage our 
employees to bring their professional expertise to programs 
that enhance math and science education.

ExxonMobil offers several programs that allow our employees 
and retirees to maximize their charitable impacts. Our Volunteer 
Involvement Program (VIP) encourages employees, retirees 
and their families to volunteer with charitable organizations, 
either individually or in teams. In the United States, the program 
provides a $500 donation on their behalf for every 20 hours  
volunteered, up to four times per volunteer per year. Our  
Educational Matching Gift Program matches employee and 
retiree donations to U.S. higher education institutions at a ratio 
of 3-to-1. In 2013, 4,800 employees and retirees donated 
$13.6 million to nearly 865 colleges and universities, as well as 
minority scholarship programs — which the ExxonMobil Foun-
dation then matched with $30.4 million in 2014. 

“Knowing that my management supports my own  
volunteer work makes me more willing to volunteer for 
company-sponsored activities. As a project lead with the 
United Way Day of Caring and with Rebuilding Together 
Houston, I had a chance to hone my mentoring skills with 
younger employees and volunteers in sharing technical 
knowledge, as well as developing my own project planning, 
budgeting and project execution skills. I also had the opportu-
nity to engage my children in some of the volunteer projects.” 

Jim Robin 
Data consultant, ExxonMobil 
Information Technologies

Community and social impactOther examples of our community-level efforts in  
2014 include:

•  United Way of Greater Houston: ExxonMobil employees 
and retirees raised more than $9 million, the largest dona-
tion in the region, during the company’s 2014 fundraising 
campaign. Nearly 3,000 employees volunteered a combined 
21,063 hours at Houston-area nonprofit agencies, which 
was supported by $275,200 in VIP team grants.

•  Introduce a Girl to Engineering: Employees serve as role 

models and lead hands-on activities connecting math and 
science to real-life applications. Since its inception 12 years 
ago, more than 11,000 students have participated in the 
event, which is held during National Engineering Week.

•  Junior Achievement (JA): Nearly 1,000 of our employees 
volunteered with JA chapters in eight U.S. cities in 2014. 
Internationally, ExxonMobil employees volunteered with 
chapters in 16 additional countries. We contributed  
approximately $1.77 million to JA initiatives worldwide.  
We earned the Junior Achievement Silver Presidential 
Award in March 2014 for accumulating more than  
10,000 volunteer hours in the previous year. Additionally,  
13 ExxonMobil employees sit on JA boards of directors.

In total, nearly 20,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and 
their families donated more than 645,700 volunteer hours to 
almost 5,000 charitable organizations in 34 countries in 2014. 
The global stories section of our website has additional exam-
ples of our employee volunteerism activities around the world. 

Global stories

ExxonMobil Worldwide Giving Report

Girls participating in an Introduce a Girl to Engineering program at Woodglen Middle School in Lebanon Township, New Jersey.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

53

Community and social impactCase study – Responsible production in Papua New Guinea

Case study

Responsible production 
in Papua New Guinea

Community members in PNG attending an ExxonMobil-sponsored drama performance; we use drama troupes to engage on issues of importance to 
both our business and local communities.

Our work in Papua New Guinea (PNG) demonstrates our  
holistic approach to managing key sustainability issues 
across our operations. PNG is a unique, diverse country that 
has a highly complex and challenging operating environ-
ment. More than 800 language dialects are spoken by its 
7 million inhabitants, and 97 percent of the land is under 
customary land tenure. An estimated 7 to 10 percent of 
the world’s biodiversity is present in the country, as well as 
the world’s third-largest moist tropical forest. Through our 
careful approach to environmental management, commu-
nity engagement and local economic development, we 
have successfully worked with PNG’s communities and local 
organizations. These efforts helped us to begin liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) production in April 2014, several months 
ahead of schedule.

Our current operations in PNG include gas production wells 
and a processing plant in the Highlands; LNG production and 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

54

shipping facilities on the south coast; and more than 500 miles 
of pipeline in between. Over the life of the PNG LNG Project,  
we expect to produce and sell more than 9 trillion cubic feet 
of gas.

Independent third parties regularly evaluate ExxonMobil PNG 
(EMPNG) to ensure conformance with external financing 
requirements related to environmental and social protection 
and performance. To see examples of these reports, visit 
pnglng.com. For an academic review of the construction 
phase of the Project, including details on grievance manage-
ment mechanisms and other engagement efforts, please see 
the Harvard Kennedy School report Building the foundations 
for a long-term development partnership. 

Harvard Kennedy School report 

 
 
Case study – Responsible production in Papua New Guinea

Grievances received by category

2008–2014

Social

164

Misinformation

75

Land

Economic

Environment

Government

66

Security

15

Project

Other

113

127

529

286

312

We invest in women entrepreneurs through the Livelihoods Restoration Program.

Engagement with local communities
Before we began construction, we worked to establish 
meaningful relationships to benefit both the communities 
and the company. Support from local communities was a 
key factor that enabled us to complete the PNG LNG Project 
construction phase early. Community engagement in PNG 
is challenging, given that many communities are located 
across diverse geographic and often mountainous terrain, 
and engagements need to accommodate many dialects. 
By the start of production, we hosted approximately 8,700 
community meetings, with more than 190,000 in attendance. 
The meetings used multiple methods of communication, 
including roadshows, school meetings, community forums 
and drama performances. For example, using locally created 
theater, a culturally appropriate medium, we reached more 
than 3,000 people in 25 communities with our message 
about the importance of safety along the onshore pipeline.

Since 2007, ExxonMobil has invested $268 million in commu-
nity and infrastructure programs in PNG, including women’s 
economic empowerment, education and health initiatives. 
One example is our contribution to support a Texas Children’s 
Hospital initiative to improve PNG’s health infrastructure, spe-
cifically in the areas of child and maternal health. For more
information about specific donations and programs, see our 
quarterly environmental and social reports at pnglng.com.

Grievance management mechanism
In order to enhance our engagement with communities, and 
in keeping with the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) 
Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustain-
ability, we established a grievance management mechanism to 
address individual and community concerns about the project. 
Dedicated project personnel were responsible for develop-
ing and managing a comprehensive process to map, track, 

analyze and respond to community grievances. Since the start 
of construction, we have received nearly 1,700 grievances, of 
which only three are not yet closed. Grievances have related 
mainly to compensation for land use, questions arising from 
the resettlement of some residents, access to land, impacts on 
food resources, and perceived threats to the environment and 
cultural sites. 

Resettlement
Our global objective is to avoid or minimize resettlement. 
When resettlement is unavoidable, we incorporate our 
internal sustainability principles, which are in line with the 
IFC’s Performance Standards, into the resettlement process 
so that livelihoods and standards of living are, at a minimum, 
restored. Throughout the resettlement process, EMPNG 
provided support to resettled households and implemented 
ongoing standard of living and livelihood restoration monitor-
ing. Local organizations provided another layer of independent 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

55

monitoring and advocacy. For example, a local third party, 
formerly called the Environmental Law Center, acted as an 
advocate on behalf of resettled people and helped keep 
them informed about the resettlement process, as well as 
their rights and obligations.

Engagement with the PNG government
As part of our company’s commitment to ethics and  
integrity, we support the PNG government’s candidacy in  
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). This  
voluntary initiative aims to improve governance in resource-
rich countries through the disclosure and verification of  
company payments and government revenues from oil, gas 
and mining projects. More information about EITI can be  
found on page 65.

We have also engaged with the PNG government about 
security and human rights in relation to EMPNG’s opera-
tions. Our company has a Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Royal PNG Constabulary, in which it agreed its 
actions would meet the requirements of the Voluntary  
Principles on Security and Human Rights. Further, the  
Constabulary agreed that government security forces 
deployed in project areas will have received training on  
the Voluntary Principles.

Community and workforce safety
The safety of our workers and the communities in the areas 
where we operate is paramount. During construction, we 
implemented several community and worker safety initia-
tives. For example, more than 14,000 workers participated 
in the LNG plant’s Incident and Injury Free training program, 
and we trained more than 2,000 Safety Champions. The 
Safety Champion program identifies opinion leaders and 
natural role models and encourages them to instill a safety 
culture within their work teams. 

During startup and early production, contractor safety leader-
ship workshops were conducted with nearly 200 people from 
more than 20 different companies. The workshops focused  
on transferring lessons learned during construction to the  
production phase and solidifying the expectation of Nobody 
Gets Hurt. At the end of 2014, our ongoing commitment to 

Case study – Responsible production in Papua New Guinea

safety enabled us to reach 23 million work hours without a lost-
time incident across all EMPNG Upstream operations  
for the year. 

partnerships and built a trustworthy reputation with many 
communities, conservation organizations, government depart-
ments and other stakeholders.

Local workforce and supplier development
Wherever we operate, we strive to maximize employment 
opportunities for local workers. During peak construction  
at the end of 2012, the project employed approximately 
21,220 workers, 40 percent of whom were Papua New  
Guineans. In production, EMPNG employs 2,178 workers, 
more than 70 percent of whom are Papua New Guineans. To 
help develop the technical and professional skills of our work-
force, we established a variety of training programs during 
construction. Many of these have continued in production. 

EMPNG also remains committed to the development of local 
suppliers. Since the start of construction, we have used local 
companies for the supply of goods and services such as camp 
equipment, labor hire, transport and materials. Our business 
development team played an important role in transferring 
knowledge and skills to increase the capability of PNG  
suppliers to meet ExxonMobil’s global standards.

In 2010, we helped establish the Enterprise Centre, a 
resource center that provides business training, mentoring 
and advisory services to local businesses. To date, the Centre 
has assisted more than 17,000 Papua New Guinean entre-
preneurs with business assessments so they can develop 
nationally competitive companies. By the end of 2014, we 
had spent approximately $4.4 billion on goods and services in 
PNG, including more than $1.7 billion spent with companies 
owned by local landowners.

Biodiversity and environmental management
Maintaining forests and conserving ecosystems are priorities 
of EMPNG’s biodiversity strategy. We have implemented 
management and monitoring measures aimed at minimiz-
ing or mitigating the effects of our activities on biodiversity. 
There are challenges with managing the biodiversity-related 
expectations of a wide spectrum of stakeholders, and active 
consultation has been and remains critical to the development 
and delivery of our biodiversity program. Through a consis-
tent and ongoing consultation process, we have developed 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

56

One example of a species we have been helping to pro-
tect, in partnership with our stakeholders, is the pig-nosed 
turtle, known locally as the Piku. The meat and eggs of the 
turtle have long been a source of food for local people, but 
increased harvesting has led to a decline in the population of 
this species. Working with local communities and marine con-
servation experts, we have contributed nearly $1 million for 
ongoing research and conservation of this turtle, with a shared 
determination to return the Piku population to a sustainable 
level. This program, led by the University of Canberra and the 
University of Papua New Guinea, has already had an impact 
on community attitudes, with a community-led protected area 
now established for turtle nesting.

ExxonMobil works to conserve the Piku turtle population in PNG.

As we continue to build our long-term presence in PNG, 
we remain committed to our culture of responsible corpo-
rate citizenship by engaging with local communities and the 
government; training and developing a local workforce and 
supplier base; and implementing environmental and biodiversity 
programs. We will continue to apply lessons learned from the 
project to other ExxonMobil projects in PNG and around the 
world. For additional information on the PNG LNG Project, 
please visit pnglng.com.

 
Local development and 
supply chain management

An employee supporting operations in Angola.  
Our detailed approach to local content development 
includes building and sustaining local economic growth 
while also improving social conditions.

We strive to have a lasting, positive effect on  
local communities by providing direct and indi-
rect economic benefits through creating new jobs, 
developing a technically skilled workforce, strength-
ening business practices, purchasing local goods and 
services, and creating investment opportunities.

 $8.2 billion

in spending with minority- and women-owned 
suppliers in the United States over the past 10 years

“Seventeen years ago, the company hired me as 
part of a local content initiative in Canada. When 
I first started, local content was a relatively new 
concept. Now, it is a regular part of our business, 
no matter where you go. We realize there is a 
symbiotic relationship with communities that is 
very powerful. Every day, in every corner of the 
world, there are teams of ExxonMobil people 
developing inclusive and healthy local supply 
chains and workforces that will have a positive 
impact for years to come.”

 — Natalie Stirling-Sanders  
Global manager, local  
content, supplier diversity  
and sustainable procurement

ExxonMobil’s local content strategy is core to our business.  
Its elements are formally integrated into our daily processes 
and guide the way we work today and plan for tomorrow.  
We have clearly defined management processes, templates 
and global best practices outlined for use around the world. 
Rather than focus simply on short-term benefits, we pursue 
enduring and shared goals with our partners in national and 
local governments and the community. Using a multi-tiered 
approach, ExxonMobil focuses on building workforce and sup-
plier capabilities in conjunction with our strategic investments 
in the local community.

Local economic growth  
and development 

An important aspect of our business is our detailed approach 
to local content development — which includes building and 
sustaining local economic growth while also improving social 
conditions. We often focus on training and educating the local 
workforce, developing the capacity and capabilities of local 
vendors who can provide us with goods and services, and 
improving the livelihoods of community members through 
strategic community investments. We describe our approach 
to community investment on page 48 of this report.

We tailor our local content approach to the specific needs of 
each location. We develop local strategies based on factors 
such as the government’s development priorities, stakeholder 
expectations, the regulatory environment, the existence and 
quality of infrastructure, the business environment and social 
capacity. ExxonMobil participates in various committees  
and working groups on local content, including co-chairing  
IPIECA’s local content task force. 

Local hiring and training
Hiring locally can help advance economic development in the 
countries where we operate and contributes to the continuity 
of our operations. We provide local employees and con-
tractors with technical and leadership skills that will benefit 
them throughout their careers, including after their work on 
ExxonMobil projects. This approach enhances the overall 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

58

capability of the workforce over the long term. We continued 
to make progress in hiring host country nationals in 2014.  
For example:

•  In Angola, 82 percent of our personnel are Angolan, 15 percent 

of whom are in supervisory or managerial positions. 

•  In Chad, 94 percent of our personnel are Chadian, 62 per-
cent of whom are in supervisory or managerial positions.

•  In Equatorial Guinea, nearly 75 percent of employees are 
Equatoguinean, 13 percent of whom are in supervisory  
or managerial positions.  

•  In Indonesia, more than 85 percent of employees  
are Indonesian, 26 percent of whom are women;  
local staff hold more than 75 percent of supervisory  
or managerial positions. 

•  In Nigeria, 92 percent of employees are Nigerian, 14 percent 
of whom are women; 21 percent of local staff are in supervi-
sory or managerial positions.

“The rigorous recruitment process at Esso Exploration 
and Production Chad Inc. allows us to identify and recruit 
top-quality candidates well-suited for our accelerated pro-
fessional development model. Through training, mentoring 
and challenging job assignments, we have developed a 
highly skilled local workforce. The company and industry ’s 
impact on the broader community has also been positive,  
as evidenced by significant local business growth.”

Borkam Ban-Orngue 
Esso Exploration and 
Production Chad Inc.  
HR manager

Our ability to hire locally depends on the supply of qualified 
individuals. Generally, as economic activity in a particular area 
increases, the demand for local skilled workers also increases, 

Local development and supply chain management 
The Czech Republic Ministry of Health recently recognized
the center in the Czech Republic with its “Health Promoting
Enterprise” award. The ministry praised the center for its
“well-designed programs of caring for workers from various
cultural environments and the effort for their well-being at
the workplace, and the system of physical activities at the
workplace, aimed at reducing the risks of sedentary jobs.” The
Ministry of Work and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the
Family Friendly Society and the European Union, also honored
the center as a “Family Friendly Company” for its work and
family life balance, overall work environment, corporate social
responsibility activities and pro-family support.

Local supplier development
Developing and using local vendors for the supply of goods 
and services are important components of ExxonMobil’s 
business strategy of nurturing entrepreneurship and fostering 
competitive businesses. Our goal is to build and maintain a 
qualified, competitive and sustainable supply chain wherever 
we operate.  

In some of the more remote locations where we operate, local 
suppliers do not always have the experience or capacity to 
provide goods and services to support our business compet-
itively. Our goal, however, is to help them become globally 
competitive over time. To realize this goal, we conduct training 
programs covering topics such as health, safety and security; 
business ethics; costing and bidding; finance and credit; and 
international standards and codes. We also provide guidance 
to suppliers when they are unsuccessful in competing for work 
with us, so they are better positioned for future opportunities 
with ExxonMobil or other international investors.

In Liberia, for example, ExxonMobil Exploration and Production 
Liberia Limited (EMEPLL), a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, has been 
working to link local vendors with established global companies 
to fill gaps in supplier capabilities. EMEPLL fostered a partner-
ship between Orion Group and Corporate Resource Specialists 
International (CRSI), a local supplier, which both provide workers 
to ExxonMobil operations at the global and country levels, 
respectively. Through this partnership, CRSI is benefiting from 
the use of Orion Group’s global infrastructure, such as database 

A local worker in Papua New Guinea directs traffic near the Project’s Komo airfield.

which can result in a shortage of available workers. This is an 
ongoing challenge, and we address such situations by support-
ing education and training initiatives aimed at increasing the 
pool of individuals from which we can hire. 

Additionally, to help develop the skills of locally hired employ-
ees, we place experienced ExxonMobil expatriates — individu-
als working in a country other than their country of permanent 
residence — in countries where they can share their expertise 
and mentor local workers for operational and leadership roles. 

For information on how we developed a local workforce in 
Papua New Guinea, see the case study beginning on page 54.

In addition to supporting businesses in the communities where 
we operate, we have opened several business support centers 
that provide services to our global operations. We have 10,000 
people working in centers around the world, including in  
the Czech Republic, Brazil and Thailand. They support our 
operations with financial, IT and customer services and provide 
jobs and business opportunities for the communities in which 
they are located. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

59

Local development and supply chain managementUp Close: 
A local workforce development 
success story — Thailand

Suda Na Songkhla, a Thai national, started with the company 
in 1991 in an information services support position in the 
Bangkok office. Utilizing the company’s tuition reimbursement 
program, she earned her master’s degree in business from 
Purdue University and moved into more senior positions. Suda 
is currently the lead manager at the Bangkok Business Support 
Center, which employs 1,900 staff, 99 percent of whom are 
also Thai nationals. 

“I have thoroughly enjoyed my time with ExxonMobil.  
I learn something new every day. But what I value the most 
at ExxonMobil is the equal opportunity that is available 
to each and every employee, whether they are male or 
female, and no matter their nationality. If you do your best, 
you will have many opportunities to succeed and develop. 
I also really appreciate the work flexibility programs at 
ExxonMobil. As a mother of two young children, the  
flexibility to balance work and home priorities is critical  
to my success.”

Suda Na Songkhla
Manager, corporate 
processes, applications and 
Bangkok Business Support 
Center site leader

systems and financial processes. This is shortening the comp-
any’s learning curve, while ensuring EMEPLL receives service 
that meets global standards. Partnerships of this nature are likely 
to contribute to bridging capacity gaps and ensure inclusion of 
local enterprises in ever-expanding supply chains. 

Supply chain management

Our business success is directly linked to how well we 
manage those who work on our behalf. Our global footprint 
often reaches beyond our own fence line. Anyone who does 
business with ExxonMobil can affect our operations and our 
reputation. We rely on our approximately 165,000 suppliers of 
goods and services to uphold our commitment to operational 
integrity. Purchases from these suppliers continue to make a 
significant positive impact on the economies and living stan-
dards in the countries where we operate.

Supplier selection can take into account issues such as the 
increased participation of the local community and of histori-
cally underrepresented segments of the population, including, 
but not limited to, women, minorities and indigenous peoples. 
We comply with specific supplier-related requirements in each 
country where we do business, and we engage with suppliers 
and provide feedback where they may need to correct defi-
ciencies. We have the option to terminate contracts with third 
parties if their performance is not acceptable. For information 
about how ExxonMobil expects suppliers to uphold labor laws 
and human rights, see page 44. 

In 2014, we completed phase two of our pilot supplier human 
rights risk assessment program. The 2014 pilot program 
objectives were to increase our capacity to identify potential 
human rights risks in our supply chain and further test the 
risk assessment process. We used a systematic approach 
to analyze potential human rights risks, select suppliers and 
conduct field assessments. While no human rights violations 
were identified during the pilot, we continue to identify areas 
for improvement in our suppliers’ ability to prevent issues from 
occurring. Planned program enhancements in 2015 include 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

60

new prevention and detection tools focused on improving our 
social performance and that of our supply chain.

Promoting supplier diversity
Ensuring we have a diverse supply chain is a company priority. 
In 2000, we began tracking our spending with minority- and 
women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs), so we could 
better understand our impact. In 2008, we began to consider 
the full reach of our supply chain, not just our direct spending, 
and made efforts to encourage and track the progress of our 
suppliers in this space. We refer to this as our Tier 2 program.   

In 2010, we set a goal to spend $1 billion annually on  
U.S. MWBEs by 2012. We met this goal in 2011 and have 
maintained a level of spending greater than $1 billion in each 
of the past four years. Over the past 10 years, we have seen 
our spending with diverse suppliers double. In addition, since 
2008, we have seen an annual increase in the amount our 

ExxonMobil spending 
on U.S. minority- and 
women-owned suppliers1 

Millions of dollars

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

$492

$576

$582

$615

$887

$841

$1,068

$1,001

$1,024

$1,108

1Includes direct ExxonMobil spending and that of our suppliers (Tier 2 spending).

Local development and supply chain management 
 
 
 
 
Up Close: 
Working with diverse suppliers 
in the United States

ExxonMobil seeks to build constructive, long-lasting and 
mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. Two of 
our suppliers in the United States, Valdes Engineering and 
Cole Chemical, have been working with ExxonMobil for  
many years.

Valdes Engineering, a Hispanic-owned company, began work-
ing with Mobil Oil in 1994. The company provides project devel-
opment, execution and off-site detailed engineering services 
for ExxonMobil’s Joliet (Illinois) Refinery. Valdes Engineering 
has grown its business by focusing efforts on learning about the 
culture of safety, a commitment to quality and an expectation of 
high performance standards from ExxonMobil and other com-
panies. By incorporating these values into its business model, 
Valdes has grown from 10 employees to more than 200 today.  

Throughout its 20-year history with ExxonMobil, Valdes Engi-
neering has completed nearly 1,000 company jobs, ranging 
from general engineering support to major capital projects.

Cole Chemical is a distributor of chemicals, lubricants, fuels, 
resins and specialty gases, with blending, warehousing and 
custom-packaging capabilities for domestic and international 
markets. Since Cole Chemical’s start in 1980, the company has 
been a supplier to ExxonMobil. The company began blending, 
drumming and warehousing chemicals for ExxonMobil’s oper-
ations in Beaumont, Texas, and has now expanded to sales of 
additional chemical supplies.  

“ExxonMobil was one of my first four clients when I began 
in 1980. They have constantly challenged us to evolve and 
improve with them and are a big reason we now generate 
revenues of $85 million per year.”

Donna Fujimoto Cole 
President and CEO 
Cole Chemical & Distributing Inc.

Cole Chemical is a minority- and women-owned company 
with a commitment to hiring and including minorities and 
women in its own supply chain, in direct alignment with  
ExxonMobil’s values and goals. 

suppliers have spent on procurement from MWBEs on  
our behalf. 

As our program has matured, we have started to expand our 
demographic reach inside the United States. Our supplier 
diversity database, where interested suppliers from tradi-
tionally underrepresented groups in the United States can 
register an interest in working for ExxonMobil, allows for the 
self-identification of many groups other than women and 
minorities. Over the years, we have added more categories 
to this database. In 2014, we added categories for busi-
nesses owned by members of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual  
and Transgender (LGBT) community and by Persons  
with Disabilities.

Efforts to ensure a diverse supply chain outside the  
United States are also a priority. Participation of businesses 
owned by indigenous peoples has been one of our focus 
areas in many countries. We are also working closely with 
WEConnect International to increase the participation in 
our supply chain of women-owned businesses around the 
world. In addition to providing financial support, we have 
participated in WEConnect International advisory councils 
in Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, South Africa 
and Europe. In 2014, we spent $405 million with women-, 
indigenous- and other minority-owned businesses outside 
the United States.

WEConnect International  

ExxonMobil is consistently recognized as a leader in supplier 
diversity efforts. In 2014, ExxonMobil Canada, as operator 
of the Hebron Project, accepted the inaugural Corporation 
of the Year Award from the Newfoundland & Labrador 
Organization of Women Entrepreneurs (NLOWE) for the 
Hebron Project’s contribution to the development of women 
entrepreneurs and the active inclusion of women-owned 
businesses in the supply chain. 

NLOWE award video

Robert (Bob) Valdes, president, Valdes Engineering Company.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

61

Local development and supply chain management 
Up Close: 
Diverse supplier development 
in Nigeria

In 2014, the ExxonMobil Foundation partnered with 
WEConnect International — an organization that empowers 
women business owners to access global supply chains — to 
host more than 300 women during four “meet the buyer” 
sessions in Nigeria. These one-day workshops in Abuja, Akwa 
Ibom, Lagos and Port Harcourt afforded the women business 
owners the opportunity to network with ExxonMobil and 
WEConnect International representatives. The goals of the 
sessions included:

•  Providing insight into the barriers and options that exist in 

accessing corporate business opportunities;

•  Training women-owned businesses on how to interact with 

multinational companies;

•  Enabling women entrepreneurs to become more compet-
itive suppliers through training on procurement practices, 
total system cost reduction and strategic collaboration; and

•  Educating women-owned businesses on ExxonMobil 

diversity programs.

The one-day workshops allowed participants to share business 
profiles, strategies, challenges and future plans, and introduced 
the women to several ExxonMobil Foundation-supported part-
ners and programs, including Vital Voices, Solar Sister and Plan 
International’s Global Women in Management workshop.  
Additionally, linkages were made with government agencies 
focused on women to help ensure women are able to access  
the resources needed to grow and sustain their businesses.

As a result of the workshop, two Nigerian women-owned 
companies, Le Look Nigeria and Mazuka Nigeria Ltd.,  
secured business with ExxonMobil. We are working with 
WEConnect International to use the results from these work-
shops to continue mentoring and fostering the sustainability  
of women-owned businesses in Nigeria.

Women attending a “meet the buyer” session in Nigeria, hosted by ExxonMobil and WEConnect International.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

62

Local development and supply chain managementCorporate 
governance

Exxon Mobil Corporation headquarters, located in 
Irving, Texas. A commitment to ethics and integrity 
is a core aspect of ExxonMobil’s company culture. 
Everyone is expected to uphold the highest ethical 
standards of business integrity.

ExxonMobil’s high standards of business conduct and 
ethics lay the groundwork for our company ’s success, 
now and in the future. 

 75,000

employees, the company ’s entire worldwide work-
force, that are expected to adhere to our high 
standards of business conduct and ethics every day

“The methods we employ to attain results are as 
important as the results themselves. The corpora-
tion’s directors, officers and employees are expected 
to observe the highest standards of integrity in the 
conduct of the corporation’s business.” 

 — Rex Tillerson 

Chairman and CEO, from  
Standards of Business Conduct

Ethics and integrity

A commitment to ethics and integrity is a core aspect of our 
corporate culture. Our presence in nearly every country of the 
world requires that employees, officers, directors and those 
working on our behalf comply with U.S. anti-corruption, anti-
trust, anti-boycott, trade sanctions and export controls laws, 
as well as laws in other countries applicable to our business. 
Everyone is expected to uphold the highest ethical standards 
of business integrity.

Standards of Business Conduct
Employees are subject to disciplinary action, including termina-
tion, for violations of our policies. Employees receive train-
ing on our Standards of Business Conduct every four years 
through business practice reviews, including a detailed review 
of the company’s anti-trust, anti-corruption, and gifts and 
entertainment policies. Employees are also required to read 
the Standards annually and confirm compliance. These  
Standards set the ethical conduct expectations of our corpora-
tion and our majority-owned subsidiaries. While ExxonMobil is 
not a formal signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, 
its values represent key elements of our Standards.  

Standards of Business Conduct 

Internal audits
Regular internal audits and self-assessments help ensure 
the rigorous implementation of our control systems and the 
Standards of Business Conduct. ExxonMobil’s internal team 
of more than 200 auditors annually reviews approximately 
one-third of the corporation’s operations, conducting detailed 
assessments of facilities, business units, personnel and records, 
and thoroughly investigates any noncompliance with the Stan-
dards across all functions of the company.

Systems and practices for reporting violations
As part of our commitment to ethics and high standards of 
business conduct, we encourage employees and contrac-
tors to ask questions, voice concerns and make appropriate 
suggestions regarding business practices or any suspected vio-
lations of law and company policies. In addition to our open-
door communication procedures, ExxonMobil has several 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

64

confidential mechanisms for reporting, including a 24-hour 
phone number and a mailing address. Employees can also 
report violations during supervisory reviews. Confidentiality 
is respected throughout the process, subject to legal require-
ments; retaliation against any employee is strictly prohibited.  

A Hotline Steering Committee comprising security, internal 
audit, law and human resources personnel reviews reports of 
suspected violations. The Audit Committee receives a quarterly 
report that summarizes the Steering Committee’s findings, 
including any violations or major issues. Violations lead to 
disciplinary actions, including dismissal.

Anti-corruption efforts
ExxonMobil is committed to the highest standards of business 
conduct and anti-corruption compliance wherever we oper-
ate. Our Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide outlines 
ExxonMobil’s commitment to comply with the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Bribery Act 
and global anti-corruption standards in our business relation-
ships. It also describes elements of the corporation’s anti- 
corruption compliance program. ExxonMobil employees and 
contractors acting on our behalf are prohibited from making 
payments to or engaging in transactions with government offi-
cials to influence improperly the performance of their official 
duties. Maintaining internal controls and keeping accurate and 
complete transaction records are required.  

Anti-Corruption Legal Compliance Guide 

ExxonMobil’s law department conducts comprehensive 
annual training sessions for employees on anti-trust and 
anti-corruption compliance. In 2014, approximately  
29,000 employees participated in anti-corruption training. 
Employees in relevant positions receive in-person training 
within three months of entering their positions and every 
year thereafter. Other managers and professional employees 
receive training every two years. The effectiveness of our  
compliance program is evaluated regularly. 

Corporate governance 
 
Transparency
Our efforts to promote revenue transparency have helped fight 
corruption, improve government accountability and promote 
greater economic stability around the world. We believe the 
most successful transparency initiatives are those that ensure 
each relevant public, private and societal entity is fully engaged 
and properly represented. In addition, initiatives must respect 
national sovereignty and local norms and apply to every 
company in all sectors: public, private, foreign and domestic. 
ExxonMobil has supported multistakeholder engagement in 
many countries to achieve revenue transparency for years.

We continually monitor and participate in public policy  
and regulatory developments with respect to transparency 
initiatives. In 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com-
mission (SEC) published new rules for global government 
payment reporting as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. A U.S. 
District Court vacated the initial SEC rules in 2013, as they 
were deemed to cause potential commercial and competitive 
harm to U.S. companies. The American Petroleum Institute, of 
which ExxonMobil is a member, submitted recommendations 
to the SEC outlining a potential new approach to transpar-
ency reporting, focused on government receipts by resource 
type and production method, that protects companies from 
disclosing commercially sensitive information. The recommen-
dations also give citizens of resource-producing countries the 
information they need to determine their country’s resource 
revenues. The SEC has indicated it may release a draft of the 
revised rules in October 2015.  

In July 2013, the European Union (EU) approved a revised 
accounting directive that mandates government payment 
reporting. Each of the EU member states has 24 months to 
implement rules at least as stringent as, but not limited to, 
the directive. We remain concerned about the inconsistency 
between the new EU rules and the direction given to the SEC 
to revise its rules, which could result in multiple and potentially 
contradictory reporting requirements in different jurisdictions. 
Such a fragmented approach would not give civil society a 
means to compile and analyze government revenue or give 
companies protection from disclosing commercially sensitive 
information. Nevertheless, we are preparing data gathering, 
verification and reporting systems and processes to comply 

with new requirements as the directive is transposed into local 
law in each EU member state.

One important global program that encourages transpar-
ency and collaboration among governments, companies, civil 
society and financial institutions is the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI). This initiative is dedicated to 
strengthening governance by improving transparency and 
accountability in the extractives sector. Companies and gov-
ernments participating in EITI separately report payments and 
revenues, respectively, allowing EITI to reconcile any differ-
ences between the totals and publish validated total govern-
ment revenues. 

ExxonMobil has had an active role in EITI at both the sec-
retariat and country levels. An ExxonMobil representative 
has served on the EITI board as either a primary or alternate 
member since its inception. In 2013, the program released an 
expanded EITI Standard outlining how countries can imple-
ment the EITI. The Standard requires commitment from all 
participants as stated in Principle 5: “We underline the impor-
tance of transparency by governments and companies in the 
extractive industries and the need to enhance public financial 
management and accountability.” 

Our efforts in 2014 focused on helping the EITI member 
countries where we operate comply with the expanded 
application and reporting requirements in its new Stan-
dard. ExxonMobil supports the EITI application, validation 
and implementation processes of 17 countries, and we are 
working with governments in Australia, Equatorial Guinea, 
Germany and Mexico, all of which are considering joining  
EITI. There are currently 48 countries that are compliant  
members or have been accepted as candidates to begin 
reporting under the EITI Standard. For more information 
about this initiative, visit eiti.org.

Board of directors

Our board of directors provides independent oversight of the 
corporation’s affairs. All directors are required to stand for 
election at our annual meeting of shareholders. At year-end 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

65

2014, 11 of 12 directors, including the presiding director and 
all members of the Audit, Compensation, Public Issues and 
Contributions, and Board Affairs committees, were indepen-
dent as defined by New York Stock Exchange guidelines. In 
2014, the board met 10 times, and the Public Issues and Con-
tributions Committee (PICC) visited XTO Energy operations in 
Fort Worth, Texas. For more information about that visit, see 
the Up Close box on the next page. 

The board’s PICC is charged, among its other duties, with 
reviewing the effectiveness of the company’s policies, pro-
grams and practices with respect to the environment. The 
committee hears reports from operating units on environ-
mental activities and also visits operating sites to observe and 
comment on current practices. The entire board has ongoing 
access to environmental and climate information via periodic 
briefings by employees whose primary expertise is in the area 
of environmental management and stewardship.

Board leadership structure
At this time, the board believes the best interests of share-
holders are served through a leadership model that combines 
the roles of chairman of the board and chief executive officer 
(CEO). With nearly 40 years of service in both domestic and 
international positions, our current CEO possesses in-depth 
knowledge of the corporation and the challenges of an 
evolving energy industry. Additionally, the independent board 
members select an independent director to serve a minimum 
of two years as presiding director. For more information about  
our board structure, visit the corporate governance section of 
our website. 

Corporate governance  

Corporate governanceBoard appointment process
Maintaining a diverse board — of gender, race, geography, 
experience and fields of expertise — is important for the 
company to succeed in a globalized market. The Board Affairs 
Committee recommends candidates for nomination by the full 
board of directors based on the Guidelines for the Selection 
of Non-Employee Directors, and diversity is a key consider-
ation. The committee looks for highly qualified non-employee 
candidates with demonstrated leadership and competency in a 
particular field and a commitment to represent the interests of 
our shareholders. Other desirable qualities include:

•  Financial expertise;

•  Experience as the CEO or senior executive of a  

significant company or organization with responsibilities  
for global operations;

•  Experience on one or more boards of significant public 

organizations or NGOs; and

•  Expertise resulting from significant professional or  
academically based scientific or research activities.

In 2014, the board included female, African-American and 
international perspectives. Three of the six most recent additions 
to the board demonstrate gender and/or ethnic diversity. We 
describe current director qualifications in our proxy statement.  

2015 proxy statement  

Board committees overview  

Executive compensation and strategic advantage
At ExxonMobil, we have structured our compensation 
program carefully in support of long-term shareholder value 
given the nature of our business: capital-intensive, long 
investment lead times and the critical importance of risk 
management. The most senior executives — including  
the CEO, Named Executive Officers and more than 1,000 
other executives in the United States — participate in a 
common compensation program. 

Up Close: 
Board committee visit to  
XTO Energy

The Public Issues and Contributions Committee (PICC) of 
ExxonMobil’s board of directors oversees the corporation’s con-
tributions, public engagement, and safety and environmental 
performance. Each year, the PICC visits an operations site within 
ExxonMobil to gain a deeper understanding of the corporation’s 
activities and practices. 

In October 2014, the PICC, along with other board members, 
visited XTO Energy in Fort Worth, Texas. The two-day visit 

provided the directors with an opportunity to meet with  
XTO Energy personnel and learn more about unconventional 
oil and gas operations. The directors also visited XTO Energy’s 
operations in the Barnett Shale, which included a walking tour 
of an XTO Energy drilling site, a visit to a hydraulic fracturing 
site and a tour of a completed well site and compressor station.  

The directors also had an opportunity to visit with Fort Worth 
Mayor Betsy Price and other civic leaders from charitable 
organizations that involve XTO Energy personnel. These meet-
ings underscored XTO Energy’s strong commitment to the 
community and demonstrated how ExxonMobil employees 
are working to improve the quality of life in Fort Worth.

The PICC visited XTO Energy operations in Fort Worth, Texas, in October 2014. From left: Randy Cleveland (XTO Energy president), Jack Williams (ExxonMobil 
senior vice president), Henrietta Fore (board and PICC member), Ken Frazier (board and PICC member), Steven Reinemund (board member and PICC chairman), 
Larry Faulkner (board member), Andy Swiger (ExxonMobil senior vice president), Jeff Woodbury (vice president, investor relations and secretary) and Keith 
Carwile (XTO Energy vice president of operations, Fort Worth division).*

*This photo was taken outside of any hazardous areas that would require safety goggles.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

66

Corporate governance 
Compensation for executives is highly differentiated, based 
on a rigorous annual individual performance assessment that 
takes into account several key factors, including results in the 
areas of safety, security, health and environmental perfor-
mance, corporate governance, diversity, and other goals 
pertinent to the performance of the company. ExxonMobil 
executives understand their compensation reflects how effec-
tively they manage risk and contribute to operations integrity 
and sustainable growth in shareholder value.

The design of our compensation program strongly aligns with 
the ExxonMobil business model. The stock-based awards have 
long holding periods that are not accelerated upon retirement 
and remain at risk of forfeiture, i.e., 50 percent vests in 10 
years from grant date or retirement, whichever is later, and the 
other 50 percent vests in five years. These design features rein-
force expected behaviors and ensure senior executives have 
a strong financial incentive to focus on the long-term integrity 
of our operations. This focus, in turn, protects the safety and 
security of our employees, the communities and environments 
in which we operate and creates long-term sustainable share-
holder value.

The 2014 advisory vote on executive compensation received 
nearly 90 percent of votes “for” the company ’s program as 
outlined. The Compensation Committee of the board contin-
ues to support this compensation program, as it more effec-
tively achieves the results for our business and is in the best 
interests of our long-term shareholders. For more information, 
see ExxonMobil’s 2015 proxy statement.

Communicating with directors
ExxonMobil’s directors encourage open and transparent 
communication on corporate citizenship topics. Individuals 
can email our non-employee directors through the Cor-
porate Governance page of our website or send written 
correspondence in care of the Secretary of the Corporation. 
ExxonMobil employees work with directors as appropriate in 
responding to these letters and emails. Directors sometimes 
request that senior managers meet with shareholders to 
address particular topics.

Shareholder relations

We value the constructive dialogue we have with our share-
holders on a variety of governance, social and environmental 
topics throughout the year. In 2014, we had 37 shareholder 
dialogues with labor, religious organizations, and pension fund 
and institutional investors. At the corporation’s 2014 annual 
meeting, shareholders owning approximately 3.56 billion — or 
nearly 83 percent — of outstanding shares were represented. 
Shareholders voted on directors, independent auditors, exec-
utive compensation and five shareholder proposals. The five 
proposals represented a decrease from 2013, due in part to 
our continued engagement with our shareholders.

ExxonMobil often receives suggestions from shareholders on 
ways to improve the company. Management and the board 
consider these suggestions and engage with shareholders, as 
appropriate. Our direct engagement with shareholders helps 
us align on the facts and understand the objectives of their 
proposals. These dialogues have allowed us to reach common 
ground with our shareholders in many instances. 

The Corporate Citizenship Report, Outlook for Energy and 
ExxonMobil’s website have helped build an understanding 
of the company’s strategic outlook, performance and risk 
management practices. In some cases, we publish additional 
reports as a direct result of our engagement to provide further 
information about certain issues. In 2014, we published three 
such reports — two on climate change and one on unconven-
tional resources — as a direct result of shareholder dialogue. 

Climate risk reports

Unconventional resources report

When agreement on a shareholder proposal is not reached, 
the proposal and the board’s response and recommendations 
are published in our proxy statement for review at the annual 
meeting. No first-year shareholder proposals were voted on at 
the 2014 meeting. 

2015 proxy statement  

2014 proxy vote summary

Percent vote for1

Proxy item

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010 

1.  Election of directors (average)2
2.  Ratification of independent auditors2
3.  Advisory vote on executive compensation2
4.  Independent chairman
5.  Majority vote for directors
6.  Limit directorships
7.  Report on lobbying
8.  Political contributions policy
9.  Amendment of EEO policy
10.  Report on natural gas production
11.  Greenhouse gas emissions goals

97.5
99.0
89.8
–
44.9
4.8
21.1
–
19.5
–
22.0

96.1
98.9
70.6
34.9
45.2
5.8
24.9
5.7
19.8
30.2
26.7

97.4
98.6
77.8
35.1
43.3
–
–
–
20.6
29.6
27.1

96.0
98.8
67.2
31.3
–
–
–
–
19.9
28.2
26.5

95.3
98.9
–
–
–
–
–
–
22.2
26.3
27.2

1Abstentions count for quorum purposes, but not toward voting on these proposals. 
2Proposals submitted by the board.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

67

Corporate governance 
 
 
 
•  International trade: ExxonMobil supports free trade policies 
for all products, including energy products such as oil and 
natural gas. Robust trade policies benefit consumers and 
encourage more investment, sustain high-paying jobs and 
foster economic growth.

•  Renewable fuel standard (RFS): ExxonMobil opposes fuel 

mandates such as the RFS because they distort free markets, 
do not provide claimed environmental benefits and ultimately 
increase costs to consumers. Transportation fuels should be 
reliable and affordable to meet consumer needs, consistent 
with automobile and engine manufacturers’ recommenda-
tions, and compatible with transportation fuel infrastructure.

•  Education: Improving educational performance is vital to the 
success of our industry and to global competitiveness. We 
support sensible, forward-looking efforts to raise academic 
standards and help teachers and students. We support STEM 
education initiatives as part of a path to competitiveness.

In light of the importance and implications of sound public 
policies, ExxonMobil will continue to engage actively with 
stakeholders who have an interest in key issues that affect  
the company and industry. 

ExxonMobil Perspectives blog  

Political advocacy  
and contributions 

Public policy decisions made at all levels of government can 
have significant impacts on ExxonMobil’s current and future 
operations. Sound public policy is best achieved when a 
variety of informed voices participate in the political process. 
Accordingly, ExxonMobil exercises its right and obligation 
to participate in the dialogue on public affairs by supporting 
policies that promote a stable investment climate for long-term 
business viability. 

ExxonMobil, like many U.S. companies, labor unions and 
NGOs, communicates its positions to the U.S. Congress and 
state legislatures. Lobbying activities include direct communi-
cation with members of Congress, state legislators, adminis-
tration and regulatory officials, trade associations and other 
groups that engage in lobbying activities. We fully comply 
with registration and reporting regulations related to our 
lobbying activities. In 2014, the corporation reported total 
federal lobbying expenses of $12.65 million in its disclosure 
reports to Congress. 

ExxonMobil also makes political contributions to candidate 
committees, political parties, political associations and other 
political organizations as permitted by applicable laws in the 
United States and Canada, as well as authorized by the board 
of directors. The corporation refrains from making political 
contributions in any country other than the United States and 
Canada. In 2014, we contributed $307,500 to state legislative 
and gubernatorial candidates and caucuses in 15 U.S. states. 
Our Political Activities Policy and Guidelines, as well as an 
itemized list of our corporate political contributions, are avail-
able on our website.  

Political Activities Policy and Guidelines  

Eligible employees and retiree shareholders may participate 
in the U.S. political process by contributing to a company-
sponsored political action committee (PAC). Participation 
in the PAC is completely voluntary. PAC contributions are 
reported monthly to the Federal Election Commission and 

are a matter of public record. During the 2013–2014 election 
cycle, ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed $1.9 million to federal 
and state candidates and committees. Based on these 
contributions, Congressional Quarterly’s Moneyline listed the 
ExxonMobil PAC No. 34 in size relative to other corporate 
PACs. The ExxonMobil PAC ranked No. 37 in terms of receipts 
from employees and retiree shareholders. The rankings are 
compiled from publicly available data filed with the Federal 
Election Commission.

The political contributions of the corporation, as well as the 
contributions from the political action committees established 
by the corporation, are reviewed with the board of directors 
annually. Corporate political contributions are subject to a 
strict internal review process that requires approval from the 
chairman. Procedures for making political contributions are 
routinely verified during internal audits of the corporation’s 
public affairs activities.

ExxonMobil engaged on a variety of issues last year in support 
of responsible economic, energy, education and environmental 
policies. Our positions on a few key issues are described below. 

•  Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling: ExxonMobil 

supports the global use of horizontal drilling and hydraulic 
fracturing — safe and successful technologies that have 
been used for decades — to enable energy development. 
With the combination of these technologies, energy secu-
rity is enhanced through a significant increase in oil and 
gas production.

•  Keystone XL pipeline: ExxonMobil fully supports the 

permitting of the Keystone XL pipeline to bring Canadian 
oil to U.S. refineries, grow the U.S. economy, provide jobs 
for workers and increase American energy security with 
needed infrastructure.

•  Tax policy: ExxonMobil supports stable tax policies that 
enable the energy industry to remain competitive in the 
global marketplace. Energy development benefits our  
economy, and sound tax policy is needed to encourage 
investment, job creation and productivity through  
strong industries.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

68

Corporate governance 
   
About this report

This report was created in accordance with the reporting 
guidelines and indicators of IPIECA, the International Asso-
ciation of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American 
Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on 
Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). The majority of 
these indicators are also consistent with the indicators used by 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the G3.1 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines. We continue to receive requests for 
corporate citizenship-related information from customers, 
suppliers, investors and external ranking institutions. To help 
these stakeholders easily access this information, we have 
mapped relevant IPIECA and GRI indicators on page 74 of this 
report and on our website. 

This Corporate Citizenship Report covers ExxonMobil’s 
operations from Jan. 1, 2014, through Dec. 31, 2014, unless 
otherwise indicated. The report uses both qualitative descrip-
tions and quantitative metrics to explain our policies, pro-
grams and practices. For environmental and climate change 
performance data, units of measure are metric where noted. 
Financial information is reported in U.S. dollars. Exxon Mobil 
Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that 
include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. 
For convenience and simplicity, those terms (and terms such 
as corporation, company, our, we, us and its) are sometimes 
used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate 
groups. ExxonMobil includes the above-mentioned operations 
as part of our company performance data, as seen on  
pages 71–73.

The term “project” as used in this publication can refer to  
a variety of different activities and does not necessarily 
have the same meaning as in any government payment 
transparency report. 

Continual improvement
External feedback on our report is a key component of our 
engagement strategy and commitment to improve our  
Corporate Citizenship Report. Management reviews all  
comments, which, in many instances, are incorporated into  
the materiality assessment and report content. 

About this report

We welcome all feedback on this 2014 report. For additional 
information, to view previous reports or to provide comments, 
visit exxonmobil.com/citizenship or contact:

Incorporating stakeholder 
feedback

Editor, Corporate Citizenship Report
Exxon Mobil Corporation
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas 75039
citizenship@exxonmobil.com

Assurance
Third-party assurance provides an independent evaluation of 
how well we report our corporate citizenship information  
and gives our reporting processes additional integrity. Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance Inc. conducts an annual third-party 
assurance of ExxonMobil’s safety, health and environmental 
reporting system. For the full assurance statement,  
see page 75.

Cautionary note
Statements regarding future events and conditions in this pub-
lication are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, 
including energy demand growth and supply mix; demo-
graphic changes; project plans, results, costs and capacities; 
the impact of new technology; future emission reductions and 
efficiency gains; and future capital expenditures may differ 
materially due to changes in oil and gas prices and other fac-
tors affecting supply and demand for oil, gas and petrochem-
icals; changes in government policy and regulation; future 
technological developments; the occurrence and duration 
of economic recessions; the outcome of commercial nego-
tiations; unexpected technical and operating difficulties; and 
other factors discussed in this publication and in Item 1A of 
ExxonMobil’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K. These 
factors are also set forth under the heading “Factors Affecting 
Future Results” on the Investors page of ExxonMobil’s website.

We spoke with a variety of stakeholders — including represen-
tatives from NGOs, academia, investors, industry experts and 
employees — about our 2013 Corporate Citizenship Report. 
We have identified several recurring comments from stake-
holders and show where we have incorporated changes within 
this report.

Show more data and use consistent time periods for trends.   
Where possible, we have included 10 years of data in this 
report as compared with four in past reports, and we have 
used the same reference year for trends wherever possible.

Tell more human impact stories. 
Two of our case studies this year focus on human impact: 
impacts on residents in Papua New Guinea and impacts on 
employees and community members in areas affected by 
malaria and Ebola around the world. We also include additional 
human impact stories in Up Close boxes throughout the report.

Quantify impacts of community investment programs.   
Our community and social impact chapter includes more 
quantifiable impacts of our three signature programs. Many of 
our global stories online also include quantifiable impacts of 
community investments. 

Global stories 

Talk more transparently about challenges.  
On pages 9 and 10, we have included a Q&A with Ken Cohen, 
vice president of public and government affairs, in which he 
discusses the key sustainability challenges the company is 
facing on topics that interest our stakeholders.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

69

Materiality

Materiality
A key step in developing this Corporate Citizenship Report is ensuring the content reflects ExxonMobil’s most material issues. According to IPIECA, the 
global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, material issues for sustainability reporting are those that, in the view of both 
the company’s management and its external stakeholders, have the potential to affect sustainability performance significantly. We outline our materiality 
process below.

1

Issue identification
We used the following sources to identify the list of potential material issues:

3

2014 material issues
We identified the following issues as the most material and discussed each in this report:

•  International reporting guidelines
•  Topics covered in previous reports
•  Feedback on the 2013 report from both internal and external stakeholders
•  Customer and investor questionnaires
•  Current legislation
•  Public debate issues
•  Online and media coverage

2

Issue prioritization
We then prioritized the identified issues by rating each on the following criteria:

•  Frequency that stakeholders raised the issue
•  Presence in the public domain
•  Occurrence under international standards and frameworks
•  Coverage by our industry and peers
•  Online and media coverage
•  Strategic importance to ExxonMobil
•  Future business opportunities and challenges

Safety, health and the workplace
•  Emergency preparedness and response
•  Employee benefits
•  Employment practices
•  Personnel safety
•  Process safety
•  Product safety and responsibility
•  Product transportation safety
•  Retention and engagement
•  Training and development
•  Workplace security
•  Worksite health and wellness

Environmental performance
•  Air quality
•  Biodiversity and ecosystem services
•  Environmental compliance
•  Spill performance
•  Water 

Managing climate change risks
•  Climate change policy and planning
•  Energy use/efficiency
•  Greenhouse gas emissions 

Community and social impact
•  Community relations
•  External stakeholder engagement
•  Human rights
•  Indigenous peoples 

Local development and  
supply chain management
•  Economic impacts and development
•  Supply chain management

Corporate governance
•  Board leadership
•  Ethics and integrity
•  Executive compensation
•  Political advocacy and contributions
•  Shareholder relations/returns
•  Transparency 

Business operations  
(included throughout report)
•  Arctic operations
•  Canadian oil sands
•  Energy future
•  Management systems
•  Offshore drilling
•  Unconventional oil and gas operations

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

70

 
Performance data

Performance data

We are committed to continual improvement in all our corporate citizenship focus areas. This means we assess our performance at many levels of the organization, from individual operational sites 
to the business lines. We provide data interpretations where we consider the performance trend to be generally desirable (green), undesirable (red) or mixed (yellow) for applicable data. For certain 
metrics, no interpretation is necessary. For other metrics, we interpret trends based on performance over a multi-year period and consider other factors in our assessments, such as production volumes 
and economic climate. We conduct much of this detailed analysis at the operational level. When we see unfavorable trends at any level, we identify them and aim to correct underlying causes. Starting 
in 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information.

Citizenship data table
Safety, health and the workplace*

Fatalities — employees

Fatalities — contractors

1

Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)

2

Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)

2

Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)

2

Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)

2

Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)

2

Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)

2

Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)

Number of process safety Tier 1 events (API RP 754 guidance)

3,4

Number of regular employees at year end, thousands

4

4

Percent of workforce — outside the United States

Percent women — global workforce 

Percent management and professional new hires — women

Percent management and professional new hires — outside the United States

Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands

Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars

Environmental performance*

5

Number of acres of managed wildlife habitat

Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters

Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel

Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel

Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels

Other spills, thousands of barrels

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Interpretation

Page #

3

5

0.017

0.069

0.054

0.061

0.39

0.45

0.42

NA

84

63

23

42

70

51

52

220

NA

NA

NA

NA

0

370

11.5

0.3

3

7

0.021

0.050

0.052

0.051

0.33

0.43

0.39

NA

82

63

24

41

72

52

60

370

NA

NA

NA

NA

0

295

35.3

4.7

0

8

0.018

0.031

0.065

0.048

0.33

0.43

0.38

NA

81

63

25

38

71

35

61

370

320

0.07

0.81

2.36

0

253

7.5

0.5

0

5

0.011

0.054

0.049

0.051

0.37

0.49

0.43

NA

80

63

25

39

69

48

69

370

350

0.08

0.90

2.56

0

211

20.3

0.4

4

4

0.017

0.043

0.040

0.041

0.32

0.39

0.36

69

81

63

26

38

63

52

71

380

340

0.09

0.85

2.46

0

242

17.4

0.5

0

3

0.006

0.048

0.031

0.038

0.25

0.34

0.30

62

84

60

26

40

70

61

77

0

9

0.017

0.064

0.086

0.077

0.30

0.41

0.37

70

82

61

26

44

79

65

80

1

4

0.010

0.041

0.049

0.046

0.25

0.37

0.33

63

77

59

28

39

68

76

88

0

6

0.011

0.050

0.041

0.044

0.22

0.32

0.28

62

75

59

28

39

66

87

96

0

3

0.006

0.032

0.030

0.030

0.19

0.29

0.26

65

75

58

28

40

61

79

117

6,400

6,900

7,000

7,000

7,200

330

370

330

280

270

0.10

0.87

2.41

0

210

7.7

40.4

0.26

0.88

2.64

0

484

17.8

2.0

0.26

0.82

2.41

0

356

8.5

1.6

0.22

0.74

1.98

0

330

11.1

0.9

0.17

0.74

1.79

1

335

9.1

3.4

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

13

13

N/A

N/A

N/A

13

N/A

N/A

13

14

18

18

18

19

N/A

19

19

26

27

N/A

N/A

N/A

29

29

29

N/A

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

71

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance data

Environmental performance* (continued)

Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons

Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons

Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons 

Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons

VOCs emitted, metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Refining

Chemical

Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars

6

Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons

Managing climate change risks*

7

Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons

8

Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)

9

Emissions associated with imported power

CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)

Methane (CO2-equivalent)

Other gases (CO2-equivalent)

Emissions from exported power and heat

7

Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), metric tons per 100 metric 
tons of throughput or production

Upstream

Downstream

Chemical

Energy use (billion gigajoules)

Energy intensity, normalized versus Global Energy Management System (GEMS) base year (2002) — refining

Energy intensity, normalized versus GEMS base year (2002) — chemical steam cracking

Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons

5

Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Interpretation

Page #

2.0

0.26

0.18

0.36

0.092

0.018

0.050

3.3

0.3

136

127

9

131

4

1

12

22.5

22.0

63.9

1.5

95.1

91.2

7.7

4.3

1.9

0.24

0.18

0.34

0.084

0.016

0.043

3.2

0.2

139

129

10

134

4

1

14

22.6

21.8

60.9

1.6

94.8

90.4

8.2

4.3

1.7

0.21

0.16

0.31

0.084

0.015

0.039

3.8

0.1

135

125

10

131

3

1

14

21.7

21.5

62.1

1.6

 94.2

89.6

8.0

4.5

1.8

0.19

0.15

0.25

0.069

0.012

0.043

5.2

0.4

126

117

9

122

3

1

13

21.0

21.0

59.8

1.5

93.7

90.4

5.7

4.6

1.4

0.16

0.13

0.23

0.071

0.011

0.036

5.1

0.8

123

114

9

119

3

1

14

20.1

21.0

60.7

1.5

 92.8

88.6

4.4

4.9

1.3

0.14

0.12

0.23

0.076

0.012

0.036

4.5

1.3

126

117

9

122

3

1

13

20.5

20.8

57.9

1.5

91.8

87.6

3.6

4.9

1.3

0.13

0.15

0.24

0.078

0.011

0.032

4.9

1.9

128

119

9

125

2

1

15

20.7

20.1

57.2

1.5

 90.9

87.3

4.1

5.0

1.2

0.13

0.15

0.20

0.073

0.010

0.036

5.5

2.0

125

117

8

122

2

1

15

22.3

19.5

56.3

1.5

90.0

88.2

3.6

5.2

1.1

0.12

0.15

0.19

0.074

0.009

0.034

6.0

0.3

125

117

8

122

2

1

16

22.4

19.7

57.0

1.5

90.5

88.8

3.7

5.3

1.2

0.10

0.14

0.20

0.078

0.008

0.029

6.2

0.3

122

114

8

118

3

1

7

23.0

19.1

53.5

1.6

90.3

86.4

4.5

5.5

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

N/A

31

31

31

N/A

N/A

N/A

32

N/A

35

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

35

35

35

35

N/A

N/A

37

38

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

72

Performance data

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

Interpretation

Page #

Community and social impact

10

Community investments, millions of dollars 

United States

Rest of world

Local development and supply chain management

167.6

170.0

206.6

225.2

235.0

237.1

278.4

255.6

269.5

279.5

112.7

109.1

124.1

144.6

143.0

154.8

54.9

60.9

82.5

80.6

92.0

82.3

161.3

117.1

156.5

99.1

156.3

113.2

150.2

129.3

U.S. spending with minority- and women-owned businesses, millions of dollars

492

576

582

615

887

841

1,068

1,001

1,024

1,108

Corporate governance

11

Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries

Percent of shares represented at Corporation's Annual Meeting

Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars

4

84.6

0.34

6

84.0

0.41

6

84.9

0.27

8

84.8

0.45

8

82.9

0.49

7

80.7

1.10

7

81.9

0.51

7

83.0

1.03

9

82.3

0.70

10

82.9

1.17

•

•

•

48

49

49

60

N/A

67

N/A

Notes on performance table:

1For the past 10 years, ExxonMobil’s fatal accident rate has been equivalent to our fatal incident rate. Workforce includes employees and contractors. 

2 Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors.

3Reduction from 2011 primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the Downstream business.

4 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our company-operated 
retail stores are not included.

5Cumulative figure.

6 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 95 percent of the reported figure in 2008–2012. 

7  The net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity GHG metric. Information has been restated back to 2005 according to the new metric. The net equity GHG metric includes direct and 
imported GHG emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports GHG emissions on a net equity basis for all our business operations, reflecting our percent ownership in an asset.

8The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1.

9These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.

10 Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.

11In countries where ExxonMobil has an Upstream business presence.

*  Some uncertainty exists in environmental and safety data, depending on measurement methods. Data represent best available information at the time of publication. Environmental, health and safety data are reported for our affiliates and those operations 
under direct ExxonMobil management and operational control. Includes XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. NA is used to indicate that data are not available.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

73

 
 
IPIECA/GRI content index 

Our corporate citizenship reporting is guided by our materiality process (see page 70), through which we determine the most important issues to our stakeholders and our business. Our reporting is 
also consistent with the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), the International Oil and Gas Producers Association (IOGP) and the American Petroleum 
Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). This report also cross-references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guide-
lines. These standards can be downloaded at ipieca.org and globalreporting.org.

Reporting overview

IPIECA/IOGP/API

GRI

Chairman’s letter

About ExxonMobil and Contributing  
to progress

The Outlook for Energy

Sustainability and Engaging with  
our stakeholders

External Citizenship Advisory Panel
Key sustainability issues and challenges
Safety, health and the workplace

1.1

2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.7, 
2.8, EC1

1.2, EC2

SE16

1.2, 4.14, 4.16, 4.17

Safety

HS1, HS3, HS4, HS5

Emergency preparedness and response
Workplace security
Health and wellness

E8, SE17
SE17
HS2

Workforce

SE15, SE16, SE17

Case study: Combating infectious diseases, 
both inside and beyond our fence line

Environmental performance
Environmental management

Biodiversity and ecosystem services

E5, SE1

Water management
Spill performance
Air emissions
Environmental compliance
Rehabilitating the environment
Managing climate change risks

E6, E9
E8
E7

Engaging on climate change policy and 
planning

SE14

Mitigating greenhouse gas emissions in  
our operations

Developing future technology
Case study: Innovation drives sustain-
ability in Downstream and Chemical 
businesses

E1, E2, E4

E3

Page
reported

3

4–5

6

7

8
9–10

12–15

15–16
16
16–17

17–19

4.16, 4.17
1.2, 4.16, 4.17

2.10, 4.8, 4.11, 4.12, 4.13, 
EN29, DMA-LA, LA7, 
DMA-PR
4.11
4.11
LA3, LA8
4.8, EC3, DMA-LA, LA1, 
LA2, LA3, LA11, LA12, 
LA13

4.8, 4.11, DMA-EN

24

EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, 
EN15

4.11, EN8, EN9, EN10
4.13, EN23, EN29
EN20
EN21, EN28, EN30
EN13, EN30

4.13, 4.14, 4.16, 4.17, 
EC2, SO5

EC2, EN3, EN5, EN7, 
EN16, EN18

EC2, EN6, EN26

24–26

27–29
29–31
31
32
32

34–35

35–39

39

EN6, EN26, DMA-PR

40–42

HS2, SE1, SE4

2.10, EC8, EC9, LA8

20–22

Reporting overview

IPIECA/IOGP/API

GRI

Page
reported

Community and social impact

Respecting human rights

SE1, SE8, SE9, SE10, 
SE17

4.8, 4.12, DMA-HR, HR1, 
HR2, HR3, HR6, HR7, 
HR10

44

Managing community impacts

SE1, SE2, SE3

Strategic community investments
Employee participation

Case study: Responsible production in 
Papua New Guinea

SE4
SE4
E5, HS1, SE1, SE3, 
SE4, SE5, SE6, SE7, 
SE8, SE10, SE13, 
SE17

Local development and supply chain management
Local economic growth and development
Supply chain management
Corporate governance

SE5, SE6, SE7, SE17
SE7, SE9, SE12

Ethics and integrity

Board of directors

SE11, SE12, SE13, 
SE16, SE17, SE18

4.8, 4.12, 4.13, EC8, HR9, 
HR11, DMA-SO, SO1, 
SO9, SO10
EC1, EC8, EC9
2.10, EC1
4.12, EC1, EC6, EC7, 
EN12, EN13, EN14, LA2, 
LA7, LA11, HR8, HR11, 
SO1, SO9, SO10

44–48

48–52
52–53

54–56

2.10, 4.13, EC6, EC7
2.10, EC6, HR1, HR2 

58–60
60–62

4.8, SO2, SO3, SO4

64–65

4.1, 4.2, 4.5, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, 
LA13

65–67

Shareholder relations

4.4, 4.16, 4.17

Political advocacy and contributions

SE14

4.17, SO5, SO6

About this report

Materiality

Performance data

IPIECA/GRI content index
Assurance statement and back cover

E1, E2, E4, E5, E6, E7, 
E8, E9, E10, HS3, HS5, 
SE4, SE7, SE13, SE14, 
SE15, SE17 

3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.6, 3.8, 
4.16, 4.17

3.5
3.7–3.11, EC1, EN8, EN13, 
EN16, EN20, EN22, EN23, 
EN30, LA1, LA2, LA7, 
LA13, SO6 
3.12
2.3, 2.4, 2.6, 3.13

67

68

69

70

71–73

74
75–76

ExxonMobil fully reports on all GRI indicators listed above, unless they are in italics, in which case they are partially addressed. 
Where indicators require multiple pieces of information located in different sections of the report, we list the indicator in every 
section where the related information appears. For the GRI portion of this index, DMA refers to the Disclosure on Management 
Approach. The IPIECA indicators in this index include, at minimum, all common reporting elements.

Environmental Resources Management Inc. (ERM) reviewed ExxonMobil’s 2014 Corporate Citizenship Report against 
the IPIECA/IOGP/API Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010) and the GRI G3.1 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ERM found that the report contents address the indicators shown in this index.

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

74

LRQA Assurance Statement

Relating to Exxon Mobil Corporation’s Corporate Citizenship 
Report for the calendar year 2014.

This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Exxon Mobil Corporation in 
accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. 

Terms of engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by Exxon 
Mobil Corporation (ExxonMobil) to assure its processes for reporting safety, 
health and environmental IPIECA performance indicators used in the Cor-
porate Citizenship Report (CCR) for the calendar year 2014, to a reasonable 
level of assurance using LRQA’s verification approach.

Our assurance engagement covered ExxonMobil’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically the following requirements:
•  Verifying the integrity of the processes used for determining which 

material issues to report

•  Evaluating consistency with the following industry guidelines: 

-  IPIECA/API, Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability 

Reporting (2010)

-  API, Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emission Estimation Methodol-

ogies for the Oil and Gas Industry (2009) 

Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data 
and information reported.

LRQA’s responsibility is only to ExxonMobil. LRQA disclaims any liability 
or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. ExxonMobil’s 
management was responsible for preparing the CCR and for maintaining 
effective internal controls over the reporting processes and CCR. LRQA’s 
responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting 
processes in accordance with our contract with ExxonMobil. Ultimately, the 
CCR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, ExxonMobil.

LRQA’s opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that ExxonMobil’s reporting 
processes were effective in delivering safety, health and environmental 
indicators that are useful for assessing corporate performance and reporting 
information consistent with IPIECA/API Guidance.  

The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assur-
ance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the Verifier. 

Assurance statement 

LRQA’s approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our 
Verification procedure; the following tasks were undertaken as part of the 
evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement:
•  Reviewing the reported information to confirm the inclusion of all core 
safety, health and environmental performance indicators referenced in 
the IPIECA/API Guidance

•  Reviewing the documented reporting requirements against the appli-

cable industry guidelines to assure consistency of scope, definition and 
reporting for each of the relevant indicators

•  Reviewing the reporting processes at Headquarters and at each of the 

functional business levels to evaluate the processes used by ExxonMobil 
to assure completeness, consistency and conformance to reporting 
requirements across its global operations

•  Reviewing the stakeholder engagement processes
•  Reviewing the processes used to aggregate the data and information at 

the corporate level for inclusion in the CCR

•  Reviewing ExxonMobil’s data collection tools to assess use in the report-

ing processes

•  Reviewing the data-reporting processes at a sample of nine operating 
sites to assess local understanding and implementation of reporting 
requirements. Sites selected were Naticoke Refinery, Canada; Anchor-
age Chemical Terminal, United States; Geophysical Operations head-
quarters, United States; and lubricant facilities in Paulsboro, and Cicero, 
United States; Ulsan, Korea; Uddevalla, Sweden; Taichung, Taiwan; and 
Asher, Egypt. 

Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engage-
ment, are:
•  Processes were in place to ensure that sites contributing to core safety, 
health and environmental metrics understood corporate reporting obli-
gations and were included in corporate safety, health, environmental and 
climate change reporting

•  Methods used for calculating each metric were defined clearly and 

communicated

•  Processes were in place to ensure that the quantitative indicators were 

checked for completeness, consistency and accuracy

•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines 
was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken 

•  Guidelines for greenhouse gas emissions reporting were consistent with, 
and specifically refer to, the API Compendium for GHG Emissions Meth-
odologies for the Oil and Gas Industry (February 2004)

•  Active engagement with external stakeholders provided information for 

determining material issues

Observations and areas for potential improvement were provided in a 
report to ExxonMobil’s management. These recommendations do not 
affect our opinion. 

exxonmobil.com/citizenship

75

LRQA’s competence and independence
LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on 
their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification 
and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior manage-
ment to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.

LRQA is ExxonMobil’s certification body for ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 
(Lubricants operations) and Responsible Care (Chemical operations) and the 
California ARB GHG verification.  The certification assessments are the only 
work undertaken by LRQA for ExxonMobil and as such do not compromise 
our independence or impartiality.

Signed  

       Dated:  March 26, 2015

Andrea M. Bockrath  

LRQA Lead Verifier
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 

LRQA Reference: UQA0110889

LRQA’s Verification procedure is based on current best practice and uses the 
principles of AA1000AS (2008) — Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and 
Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000.

Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s 
Register Quality Assurance Limited, and their respective officers, employees 
or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s 
Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any 
person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or 
advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a 
contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this informa-
tion or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the 
terms and conditions set out in that contract.

The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s 
Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into 
other languages. 

This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it 
refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.

Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the 
Lloyd’s Register Group.

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explore our complete 2014 Corporate Citizenship Report at exxonmobil.com/citizenship. 

Note: Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, 
Esso, Mobil 1 and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as corporation,  
company, our, we and its are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups.  

ExxonMobil is a publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the principal exchange on which 
Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. The term “project” as used in this publication 
can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government 
payment transparency reports.

Exxon Mobil Corporation
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas 75039-2298
exxonmobil.com

