2017

Annual Sustainability Report

CONTENTS

Our People ..................................................................................................2

Environmental Sustainability ...............................................................5

Our Products..............................................................................................9 

Our Governance ...................................................................................... 12

Our Headquarters and Regional Offices ....................................... 14

United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals ...................... 15

Our Possibilities ...................................................................................... 16

CEO’S MESSAGE

As an integrated energy company, Vistra Energy operates an innovative, customer-centric retail business 

and a generation fleet focused on safely, reliably, and efficiently generating power in the communities we 

serve. Electricity is an irreplaceable product that is critical to everyday life, whether it be for residences or 

businesses. We understand and take very seriously our role to provide cost-effective, reliable power to our 

customers and help fuel the economy. We also understand and take very seriously that our business has 

an environmental footprint. We have invested billions of dollars to control emissions, to make our existing 

power plant fleet more efficient, and to advance our generation fleet into newer, more efficient and lower 

emitting power plants including renewables, batteries, and state-of-the-art, gas-fueled assets. The supply 

side of our business is experiencing a transition some market-driven and some policy-driven and we must 

manage our company through this transition in an economic manner. It is not an option to just say no to 

change. We can and must participate to the long-term benefit of our company and our stakeholders. We 

have begun the process of rotating our generation fleet and during this process we will operate a wide  

variety of facilities as the mix changes based on opportunity to economically produce electricity and  

provide reliable, cost-effective power to meet our customers’ needs.

Electricity is essential to society’s most important priorities: food production and processing, construc-

tion of residences and businesses including hospitals and schools, and production of critical goods and 

services, such as military equipment and transportation resources. The reliable production and delivery 

of power is certainly important, but the cost must also be considered. Subsidies and artificial support of 

electricity resources increase the cost to consumers and ultimately crowd out capital that could be used 

to support the multitude of society’s priorities. No one critical societal priority should be emphasized over 

another, especially through governmental subsidies that pick winners and losers. Competitive economics 

should be allowed to prevail. 

Balance is the key, and it’s a theme you’ll see throughout this sustainability report. Just as our name 

balances “vision” and “tradition,” we are balancing innovation and reliability, sustainability and efficiency. 

With our recent Dynegy merger, we’ve added balance to our geographic presence and the make-up of 

our generation fleet. Our people balance the work they do in the community with work for the community. 

With our existing facilities, we strive to balance the impact they make with the benefits they provide.  

We take a balanced approach to the products we offer, providing customers a wide range of offers to 

match their needs and preferences. And as we look to new technologies, we seek to balance the prospect 

of developing incremental new technologies, such as renewables and batteries, with the financial  

prudence that has put us in a position to pursue it in the first place.

Vistra’s story so far has been one of sustainable success. And, in many ways, our story is just beginning.

Curt Morgan, president and CEO 

Vistra Energy

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 1

OUR PEOPLE

Caring for our communities is an essential component of Vistra’s business: 

We have a strong legacy of giving back, and community focus is integral 

to our vision of success. 

Across the 12 states Vistra operates in and serves, our employees are united 

by a mission of improving the communities where we do business and 

where our people live. In addition to the initiatives below, the company 

encourages employees to volunteer, giving them eight hours of paid,  

community time-off every year to support their spirit of giving and  

contribute their time to causes that are personally important to them. 

2  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ANNUAL GIVING CAMPAIGN

Every year, we come together to support our neighbors in need through our United 

Way and TXU Energy AidSM campaign, our foremost giving initiative. Employees and  

the company raised more than $1.5 million in 2017 and more than $10 million in the  

last five years. 

ENERGY IN ACTION

Our people are empowered to get involved in their communities year-round through 

Energy in Action, our employee-led volunteer program. Launched as a grassroots effort 

in 2013, Energy in Action facilitates opportunities for employees to give back through 

team-building events, donation drives, disaster response initiatives, and more. In 2017, 

our people volunteered more than 5,000 hours at 50 events that supported critical 

needs in our communities. 

•  Contributed nearly $23,500 

•  Gave toys to 250 children 

•  Collected hundreds of school 

to the American Red Cross to 

through the Be an Angel holi-

supplies for United Way. 

assist with Hurricane Harvey 

day drive. 

relief efforts. In addition, em-

ployees contributed hundreds 

of toiletries and clothing items 

to residents affected by the 

hurricane. 

•  Partnered with Northwestern 

•  Funded an initiative to combat 

University and the City of 

summer hunger for children 

Evanston to overhaul Twiggs 

who are at risk of going hungry 

Park, an outdated basketball 

when school is out. 

court located in Evanston, IL.

•  Raised $77,313 for the National 

•  Sorted food at the North Texas 

•  Helped sort and box food do-

Multiple Sclerosis Society, 

providing funding for research 

to find a cure for multiple 

sclerosis. 

Food Bank, helping the agen-

nations at the Feedstore Food 

cy in its mission to provide 

Bank to serve the hungry in 

190,000 meals per day for 

the communities of Cincinnati, 

residents of 13 counties. 

Ohio. Working two shifts, em-

•  Donated hundreds of toys to 

•  Revitalized the garden at 

Community Partners of Dallas’ 

Achieve DFW, which serves 

ployees processed approxi-

mately 6,000 lbs. of food.

annual toy drive.

adults with severe intellectual,  

•  Donated $200,000 to East 

physical, or mental health 

Side Aligned to specifically 

•  Provided books to Dallas ISD 

disabilities. 

students through the United 

Way’s Dr. Seuss Reading Day 

book drive.

help East St. Louis strengthen 

and improve public safety 

and the outcomes for young 

people.

For our work in 2017, 

Vistra was awarded 

the Spirit of Caring 

Award from the United 

Way of Metropolitan 

Dallas. The Spirit of 

Caring Award is the 

most prestigious award 

given by United Way 

to a company that 

demonstrates excel-

lence in supporting the 

organization’s annual 

campaign and for  

outstanding com-

munity involvement 

throughout the year.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 3

Since 2003, dozens of employees have participated in the annual Bike MS 150, riding from 

Grapevine, Texas, to Sundance Square in Fort Worth to raise money for MS research.  

In that time, riders have ridden a total of 181,650 miles and raised a total of $1.06 million.

In 2017, Energy in Action and other community-involvement efforts :

VETERANS SUPPORT

As a company, we feel privileged to help veterans in their career development through 

our membership in American Corporate Partners and our veterans mentoring program. 

Since 2010, more than 80 Vistra Energy employees have volunteered with ACP to provide 

one-on-one career development mentorships to post-2001 military veterans. ACP men-

tors and protégés are paired for one year based on a variety of considerations, including 

shared career interests, educational background, age, and location. Each pair is encour-

aged to meet virtually at least once a month to discuss professional development goals 

and topics, and relevant skills, such as résumé and interview preparation, and networking. 

ENVIRONMENTAL GIVING

Vistra is extremely focused on its environmental giving strategy. In 2017, the company 

donated 2,378 trees and 25,330 seedlings through our Trees Across Texas program, in 

which we help create healthy and sustainable communities by partnering with our cus-

tomer cities, counties, schools, and nonprofits to provide trees for schools, parks, libraries, 

and various community facilities. Additionally, more than 70 employees helped dispose of 

more than 8,000 pounds of trash and invasive species, in addition to planting 60 native 

plants in an effort to clean and conserve Dallas’ Trinity River Corridor. 

WELLNESS

Vistra believes a healthy workforce leads to greater well-being at work and at home. Our 

employee-led wellness team engages our people to get active and support causes that 

promote healthy living. Our headquarters includes a 1,800-square-foot fitness center that 

offers several pieces of cardio equipment, a selection of free weights and exercise mats, 

as well as men’s and women’s locker rooms and showers. With support from the company, 

the wellness team covers the registration costs for employees to participate in more than 

a dozen running events each year. Additionally, the team hosts quarterly blood drives and 

recruits participants for our cycling and soccer teams. In 2017, our people contributed 

more than 2,000 hours to wellness initiatives and activities.   

4  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY

Vistra’s generation business, Luminant, has an outstanding legacy of caring 

for the environment and serving as a leader in voluntary climate stewardship 

— without sacrificing safe operations, reliable service, or affordable power. 

In recent years, the company’s generation portfolio has evolved from one 

that was predominantly fueled by coal and was located only in Texas to one 

that is truly diversified, both in terms of geography and fuel source. 

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 5

ROTATING FLEET

2013 ENERGY PRODUCTION
(LUMINANT PRE-MERGER)

The evolution began in 2016, when Luminant purchased two, 

state-of-the-art combined-cycle natural gas (CCGT) plants in  

Texas, totaling nearly 3,000 megawatts of capacity in ERCOT.  

Another CCGT plant in Texas was added to the portfolio in 2017.

Meanwhile, after a lengthy, in-depth analysis into the economic  

viability of its older plants, the company ultimately decided to 

close three coal-fired power plants in Texas in 2017, all of which 

were successfully retired by February 2018. Reclamation work 

at the associated mines is ongoing. Based on the last five years’ 

COAL

NUCLEAR

NATURAL GAS

emissions average, the retirement of these plants will reduce emis-

2019 GENERATION BY FUEL TYPE

sions for Vistra’s total fleet by 67 percent for Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), 
45 percent for Carbon Dioxide (CO2), 45 percent for Nitrogen  
Oxide (NOx) and 60 percent for Mercury (Hg). Note: The chart 
below right reflects reductions prior to the merger with Dynegy.

The acquisition of Dynegy, completed in April 2018, expanded the 

fleet’s footprint across the country. Vistra now has operations in 

12 states and a generation fleet that totals approximately 41,000 

megawatts of highly efficient generation capacity, with a diverse 

portfolio of natural gas, nuclear, coal, battery, and solar facilities.

Even prior to the acquisition, Luminant has seen a steady decline 

in the CO2 emission rate, as the chart below indicates. The ad-

dition of the Dynegy fleet continues our progress toward more 

cost-effective and less carbon-intensive generation.

LUMINANT FOSSIL GENERATION

COAL

NATURAL GAS

NUCLEAR

OTHER

LUMINANT KEY STACK AIR EMISSIONS
% REDUCTION FROM 2006 TO 2017
(% CHANGE IN TONS FROM 2006)

0

SO2

Hg

NOX

23.2%

CO2
-17%

CO2 lb/MWh (FOSSIL)

-48.3%

-73.7%

2,500

2,000

1,500

1,000

500

0

2015

2016

2017

2018
JAN-JUN

(W/ DYNEGY)

6  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

RENEWABLE SOURCES

As Vistra continues to look forward, it’s continuing to change 

the complexion of its fleet for maximum efficiency while making 

disciplined investments in new technologies.

In 2017, Vistra announced the purchase and construction of the Upton 2 

Solar Facility, which became commercially operational in June of 2018. At 180 

megawatts, Upton 2 is Texas’ largest operating solar facility. Before the end of the  

year, the company will install a 10-MW/42-MWh lithium-ion battery storage system at 

Upton 2, which in terms of energy will be Texas’ largest. The battery storage system will 

enable Vistra to maximize the amount of solar power generated at Upton 2.

In June of 2018, Vistra Energy announced that the company will enter into a 20-year 

resource adequacy contract with Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), which the 

California Public Utilities Commission has approved, subject to public comment. To sup- 

The Upton 2 project 

takes advantage of 

consumer enthusiasm, 

the geographic charac-

teristics and strong solar 

irradiance in West Texas, 

and new advancements 

port this contract, Vistra will develop a 300-MW/1,200-MWh, battery energy storage 

in solar panel technology.

project at its Moss Landing Power Plant site in Moss Landing, California. The Moss Land-

ing battery project will be the largest of its kind in the world and will position Vistra as 

a market leader in utility-scale battery development. The Moss Landing battery project 

will help increase local electric reliability by turning on quickly when incremental power 

supply is needed, as opposed to peaking power units fueled by fossil fuels. 

In addition, Vistra, via Luminant, is a large purchaser of wind-generated electricity to 

support our retail products. In 2017, Vistra purchased almost two million megawatt hours 

of wind-generated electricity and another two million renewable energy credits to meet 

our customer demand.

VISTRA ENERGY 2017 WIND PURCHASES BY MONTH

250,000

200,000

150,000

100,000

50,000

JAN

FEB

MAR

APR

MAY

JUN

JUL

AUG

SEP

OCT

NOV

DEC

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 7

Luminant and its employees have proudly partnered with Texas Parks and Wildlife for 

more than 30 years, leading the way in the advancement of forestry and fisheries  

management through its land reclamation efforts.

Vistra continues to evaluate and monitor new power facility technologies, including 

technologies that support sequestration or reduction of CO2, incremental renewable sources 
of electricity, energy storage, and related technologies that seek to lower emission intensity. 

We will balance investment in these new technologies with Vistra’s commitment to providing 

safe, efficient, and low-cost power.

LAND RECLAMATION

Since mining began more than 45 years ago, Luminant has reclaimed more than 80,000 

acres for use as pastures, forests, wildlife habitat, and water resources, and the company has 

secured reclamation bond liability releases on 40,000 acres. 

Over the last 43 years, Luminant has planted more than 41 million native trees as part of 

our reclamation program, including over 1.2 million in 2018. More than 30,700 acres of our 

reforested land are certified by the American Tree Farm System as sustainably managed 

woodlands, and the Federal Office of Surface Mining has indicated that we plant more trees 

annually than any mining company in the U.S.

We have created or enhanced more than 6,800 acres of wetlands, ponds, and stream 

channels on our restored lands, dramatically increasing water resources for the benefit of 

wildlife and livestock. Luminant has received over 90 awards for reclamation excellence, 

including an unprecedented five Director’s Awards, the highest honor from the U.S. 

Department of the Interior’s Office of Surface Mining, and we were recently recognized  

by the Stephen F. Austin State University Board of Regents for nearly 50 years of 

commitment to environmental education.

8  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

OUR PRODUCTS

Vistra’s retail presence spans six of the seven competitive markets in the 

U.S., and our portfolio of products balances the needs and preferences of 

our customers.

In Texas, Vistra’s retail brand TXU Energy has been a  

leader in offering customers products that are renewable 

and conservation-focused. These products include:

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS & SOLAR DAYS — A first-of-

its kind plan, Free Nights & Solar Days offers residential 

customers 100 percent renewable energy (100 percent 

wind power at night and 100 percent solar during the 

day). As with the initial Free Nights product, this offer 

capitalizes on low-cost wind-generated energy in Texas. 

As of 2017, more Texans are enrolled on a TXU Energy  

solar plan than own rooftop solar panels in the 

competitive Texas market.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 9

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS  — TXU Energy was the first retail electric provider in the state to 

offer a time-of-use plan when it rolled out TXU Energy Free Nights in 2012, giving customers 

a chance to save energy charges by shifting energy-intensive activities to certain hours. The 

company later enhanced the product offering to include weekends or other designated times, 

and it is TXU Energy’s highest-rated plan. The product allows Vistra to capitalize on low-

cost wind-generated energy in Texas, and, on average, Free Nights customers get nearly 40 

percent of their electricity for free. 

TXU SOLAR CLUB — This first-of-its-kind, membership-style 

plan provides residential customers clean energy purchased 

from Texas solar farms. The shared solar offer gives 

customers benefits similar to a rooftop solar array without 

the cost of installing a system.

TXU SOLAR FROM SUNPOWER — TXU Energy brought 

TXU Solar from SunPower to the state, offering the market’s 

highest-efficiency rooftop solar panels. Customers receive an instant rebate when they 

purchase the high-performance rooftop solar panels, as well as one of the top plans in Texas 

for crediting customers for the electricity their solar systems generate but don’t use. 

TXU ENERGY RENEWABLE BUYBACKSM — This plan pays customers for their surplus power 

generated by renewable energy equipment, like solar panels or wind turbines. 

TXU ENERGY GREENUPSM — We offer our residential and 

small commercial customers an opportunity to support 

clean energy by making any of our feature-rich pricing 

plans “green.” With GreenUp, we buy power and renewable 

energy credits from Texas wind power equal to a customer’s 

total electricity usage, helping increase how much clean 

energy is produced in Texas. In 2017, TXU Energy retired 

enough renewable energy credits from residential customer 

purchases to power nearly 380,000 homes for a year.  

[source: EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalency Calculator]

TXU ITHERMOSTATTM — TXU Energy introduced the first 

two-way, Internet-enabled thermostat in Texas’ competitive 

electricity market in 2009. The WiFi-enabled thermostat 

allows customers to set a schedule from their smartphone or 

the thermostat and remotely adjust settings with the tap of 

a button.

MYENERGY DASHBOARD — TXU Energy believes that helping customers better understand 

how and when they use electricity improves their overall experience and saves them money. 

The TXU Energy MyEnergy Dashboard is a free tool that allows residential and business 

customers to examine their electricity usage to reduce energy consumption and, ultimately, 

10  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

lower their electric bills. It also provides a forecast of what their usage and cost could be at 

the end of the month, based on current usage patterns, giving them valuable insights that 

can lead to behavioral changes.

TXU Energy also offers customized solutions to help large business customers hit their 

sustainability targets, with wind PPAs, utility scale solar plant, or onsite solar solutions.

TXU REDUCTION REWARDS — When we identify times the market could benefit from lower 

In January 2016, TXU 

Energy announced TXU 

Energy Solar AdvantageSM, 

the market’s first electricity 

demand, our large business customers can choose to reduce use and get paid for doing so. 

plan that’s 100 percent 

TXU GREENBACK — We award our large business customers nearly $2 million a year in 

rebates for making energy-efficiency improvements to their facilities.

backed by solar power 

generated in Texas. 

Vistra’s retail brands also include Dynegy and Homefield  
Energy in the northeast, and Express Energy and 4Change  
Energy in Texas. The latter was founded on the idea that  

electricity should be affordable and contribute to where its  

customers live. 4Change contributes 4 percent of its profits  

to the following Texas charities: 

•  American Cancer Society

•  American Red Cross

•  Feeding Texas

•  Heroes for Children

As Vistra expands its retail footprint outside of Texas, we will continue to evaluate the best 

way to offer a variety of products to meet our customers’ needs for affordable, reliable, and 

renewable electricity.

TXU ENERGY AIDSM

TXU Energy has one of the most extensive 

utility and energy assistance programs in the 

nation. For more than 30 years, TXU Energy 

AidSM has helped Texas families in need keep 

their homes powered and safe. Through 

the support of our employees, customers, 

and other donors, TXU Energy AidSM helps 

an average of 20,000 customers each year 

with bill-payment assistance, supporting 80 

social service agency partners across Texas. 

In total, the program has provided more 

than $100 million in bill-payment assistance 

for 520,000 Texans.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 11

OUR GOVERNANCE

Vistra is led by a team of industry veterans with expertise across all areas of 

the energy business, including a board of directors with a diverse experience 

set providing guidance and governance. While the board has delegated 

management of the company’s day-to-day operations to its executive  

officers, the following board committees provide specific review and  

approval of certain matters:

BOARD COMMITTEES

AUDIT COMMITTEE 

The principal purposes of the Audit Committee are to oversee the quality and integrity 

of Vistra’s financial statements, the financial reporting processes and financial statement 

audits, the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence, the performance of the 

company’s internal audit function and independent auditor, the systems of disclosure controls 

and procedures, and the company’s system of internal controls over financial reporting, 

accounting, legal compliance, and ethics, including the effectiveness of disclosure controls 

and controls over processes that could have a significant impact on the financial statements. 

The Audit Committee’s purpose is also to foster open communications among the indepen-

dent auditor, financial and senior management, internal audit, and the board, as well as to 

encourage continuous improvement and foster adherence to the Company’s policies, 

procedures, and practices at all levels. 

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 

The purpose of the Compensation Committee is to discharge the board’s responsibilities 

relating to compensation of directors, the chief executive officer, executive officers, and other 

company leaders. The Compensation Committee reviews and recommends to the board 

compensation plans, policies, and programs, and it also approves individual executive officer 

compensation that is intended to attract, retain, and appropriately reward employees in order 

to motivate their performance in the achievement of the company’s business objectives and 

align their interests with the long-term interests of the company’s stockholders.

NOMINATING AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 

The Nominating and Governance Committee’s purpose is to identify individuals qualified to 

become board members (consistent with criteria approved by the board), recommend to the 

board the company’s director candidates for election at the annual meeting of stockholders, 

annually review the corporate governance guidelines of the company, and oversee the annual 

performance evaluation of the board and its committees. The committee also recommends 

directors to serve on all committees of the board. 

12  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

RISK COMMITTEE 

A full roster of current 

While Vistra’s board of directors has delegated management of the company’s day-to-day 

board members and 

operations to its executive officers, the board expressly reserves certain matters for review 

leadership can be found 

and board approval. The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the board in discharging 

its responsibilities with respect to oversight of management’s process for the identification, 

online at  

www.vistraenergy.com

evaluation, and mitigation of enterprise risk, the company’s risk related to commodity 

prices, the company’s management of its insurance programs, and investment policies and 

performance with respect to the company’s pension and nuclear decommissioning programs. 

(Enterprise Risk is defined as management’s assessment and prioritization of the key factors 

with potential to have an impact on the Company’s business and functional operations.)

MANAGEMENT

In 2017, Vistra implemented three additional standing committees: the management com-

mittee, commitments committee, and risk management committee.

The MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE consists of the chief executive officer and his direct reports, 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

COMMITMENTS 
COMMITTEE

RISK  
MANAGEMENT 
 COMMITTEE

as well leaders who represent key business areas and support functions. This weekly meeting 

includes discussion and decision-making related to general strategy and policy items, oper-

ational updates, and other items not presented at either committee listed below.

The COMMITMENTS COMMITTEE includes, as voting members: president and CEO (chair), 

chief financial officer, general counsel, chief operating officer, chief administrative officer, 

and senior vice president of corporate development and strategy. The committee’s standing 

invitees include all other direct reports to the CEO, president of retail, chief compliance 

officer, chief commercial officer, chief risk officer, treasurer, vice president of planning, and 

controller. The committee provides operational oversight of Vistra’s commitment activities, 

ensuring that prior to committing and deploying company resources in connection with 

a transaction, an appropriate level of analysis and review is performed and appropriate 

approvals are obtained. The committee also approves transactions within transaction 

authority limits delegated by the Vistra board of directors. The Commitments Committee 

may sub-delegate authority to subject-matter specific committees, such as the Technology 

Services Steering Committee.

The RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE’s members include: president and CEO, chief financial 

officer (chair), chief operating officer, senior vice president of corporate development and 

strategy, chief commercial officer, chief risk officer, president of retail, treasurer, vice president 

of planning, controller, and vice president of regulatory trading and generation. The Risk 

Committee provides risk management oversight, monitoring, control, and guidance for all 

risk management activities at Vistra, and it approves risk management activities within limits 

delegated by the board of directors through the Risk Management Policy and Commitments 

Committee delegation of authority.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 13

OUR HEADQUARTERS AND 
REGIONAL OFFICES

Vistra’s corporate headquarters, located in Irving, Texas, has received the 

EPA’s prestigious Energy Star recognition for the past nine consecutive 

years. Additionally, our data center and customer operations building have 

achieved Energy Star recognition every year since 2015. Commercial build-

ings that earn the Energy Star use an average of 35 percent less energy  

than typical buildings and also release 35 percent less carbon dioxide  

into the atmosphere.

Our headquarters has also achieved LEED certification for commercial interiors, and our 

data center received LEED certification for existing buildings. Since 2015, Vistra’s offices 

have been awarded the BOMA 360 certification, which recognizes commercial properties 

that demonstrate best practices in building operations and management. In addition to a 

robust deskside recycling program, Vistra has also implemented a green cleaning program 

for a healthier workforce and reduced environmental footprint. Electric vehicle charging 

stations are available at Vistra’s headquarters and a regional office.

14  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS

Vistra’s balanced approach to providing electricity aligns closely with the 

United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Ensuring that affordable, 

reliable power is available to the markets Vistra serves is important to the 

goals of reducing poverty; eliminating hunger; promoting good health and 

well-being; supporting quality education; the provision of clean water and 

sanitation; the availability of decent work and economic growth; the promo-

tion of industry, innovation, and infrastructure; development of sustainable 

cities and communities; and the promotion of responsible consumption and 

production. In addition, Vistra is committed to improving the environments 

where we operate by serving our customers and communities through more 

efficient — and cleaner — applications of energy, including improving our 

operations and investing in new technologies. We prioritize the generation 

of reliable and cost-effective power for our customers, while maintaining 

steadfast compliance with changing environmental rules and regulations.

  VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT — 15

OUR POSSIBILITIES

Electricity is a vital component of our daily lives. We rely on it for  

everything from air conditioning our homes to refrigerating our food  

to charging our mobile devices. 

Electricity is also the lifeblood of our economy, powering health care, 

technology, manufacturing, banking, and more. Reliable, affordable  

power supports business growth and job creation. 

Vistra understands the importance of its product, and the company  

believes it can play an important role in the betterment of its communi-

ties — and beyond. Vistra carries on the tradition of excellence, but it  

also has a vision of what’s possible — for the company, for the industry, 

and for society in general, from the electrification of transport to the  

promise of battery storage. 

With its balanced, integrated approach of customer-centric retail and  

reliable generation, its disciplined investment in renewable energy  

projects, and its dedicated, caring workforce, Vistra is poised for  

even more success. Success that can be sustained. After all, our 

sustainability is society’s sustainability. 

16  — VISTRA ENERGY 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

VISTRA ENERGY 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT      16

About Vistra Energy 
Vistra Energy (NYSE: VST) is a premier, integrated power company based in Irving, Texas, combining an innovative, customer-centric 
approach to retail with a focus on safe, reliable, and efficient power generation. Through its retail and generation businesses which 
include TXU Energy, Homefield Energy, Dynegy, and Luminant, Vistra operates in 12 states and six of the seven competitive markets 
in the U.S., with about 6,000 employees. Vistra’s retail brands serve approximately 2.9 million residential, commercial, and industrial 
customers across five top retail states, and its generation fleet totals approximately 41,000 megawatts of highly efficient generation 
capacity, with a diverse portfolio of natural gas, nuclear, coal, and solar facilities.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
The information presented herein includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, as amended. These for-
ward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industry and markets in which 
Vistra Energy Corp. (“Vistra Energy”) operates and beliefs of and assumptions made by Vistra Energy’s management, involve risks and 
uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and are not guarantees of future performance, that could significantly affect the financial 
results of Vistra Energy. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that are presented herein, or in response to questions 
or otherwise, that address activities, events or developments that may occur in the future, including such matters as activities related 
to our financial or operational projections, projected synergy, value lever and net debt targets, capital allocation, capital expenditures, 
liquidity, projected Adjusted EBITDA to free cash flow conversion rate, dividend policy, business strategy, competitive strengths, goals, 
future acquisitions or dispositions, development or operation of power generation assets, market and industry developments and the 
growth of our businesses and operations (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases, or the negative variations of 
those words or other comparable words of a future or forward-looking nature, including, but not limited to, “intends,” “plans,” “will 
likely,” “unlikely,” “believe,” “expect,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “will,” “shall,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “might,” “predict,” 
“project,” “forecast,” “target,” “potential,” “forecast,” “goal,” “objective,” “guidance” and “outlook”),are forward-looking statements. 
. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Although Vistra Energy believes that in making 
any such forward-looking statement, Vistra Energy’s expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such forward-looking 
statement involves uncertainties and risks that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in or implied by any such 
forward-looking statement, including but not limited to (i) the effect of the merger (the “Merger”) on Vistra Energy’s relationships with 
Vistra Energy’s and Dynegy Inc.’s (“Dynegy”) respective customers and their operating results and businesses generally (including 
the diversion of management time on integration-related issues); (ii) the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its 
subsidiaries are different from what Vistra Energy expects; (iii) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions (including 
changes in interest rates) or changes in political conditions or federal or state laws and regulations; (iv) the ability of Vistra Energy to 
execute upon the contemplated strategic and performance initiatives (including the risk that Vistra Energy’s and Dynegy’s respective 
businesses will not be integrated successfully or that the cost savings, synergies and growth from the Merger will not be fully realized 
or may take longer than expected to realize); and (v) those additional risks and factors discussed in reports filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) by Vistra Energy from time to time, including the uncertainties and risks discussed in the sections 
entitled “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements” in Vistra Energy’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended 
June 30, 2018.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only at the date on which it is made, and except as may be required by law, Vistra Energy will 
not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is 
made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all 
of them; nor can Vistra Energy assess the impact of each such factor or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may 
cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.

Vistra Energy Corp. 
6555 Sierra Drive
Irving, TX 75039
www.vistraenergy.com

NYSE: VST

