2020

Sustainability Report

MAY 2021

2

<< Table of Contents

Contents

03

About Vistra

05

Executive Summary

07

Letter from the CEO

09

CPSO’s Message

10

Our Approach

18

At the Workplace

33

Powering Customers, Communities, and Suppliers

43

Environmental Stewardship

57

Appendix

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report3

<< Table of Contents

About Vistra

OUR PURPOSE:

Lighting up people’s lives,  
powering a better way forward.

20

Operating in 20 states and the District 

of Columbia

 NYSE: VST

39,000 MW

of generating capacity

50

Renewable plans available for retail  

residential customers

Developing

400 MW / 1,600 MWh

Battery energy storage system, the largest of its kind in the world

 SERVING ~4.3 MILLION  
  CUSTOMERS

 A FORTUNE 275 COMPANY

 DIVERSE FLEET:

 NATURAL GAS
 NUCLEAR
 SOLAR
 BATTERY ENERGY  
       STORAGE

Power Plants*

Natural Gas

Coal

Oil

Vistra Zero 

Nuclear

Solar / Batteries

Solar (under development)

Batteries (under development)

Operations

Retail Operations

Plant Operations

Retail and Plant Operations

Regional Office

Company Headquarters

Retail Operations

*Note: Does not include plants previously 
announced to be retired. 

Power Plants*

Natural Gas

Coal

Oil

Vistra Zero 

Nuclear

Solar / Batteries

Solar (under development)

Batteries (under development)

Operations

Retail Operations

Plant Operations

Retail and Plant Operations

Regional Office

Company Headquarters

Retail Operations

*Note: Does not include plants previously 
announced to be retired. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

<< Table of Contents

Our Core  
Principles

We do business the right way
Every decision we make and action we take will be evidence of the utmost 

integrity and compliance. Conducting our daily activities within the laws, 

regulations, and rules is not an option we choose but rather the way we do 

business that is ingrained in our culture. 

We work as a team
We are committed to each other, in everything we do and to the success 

of our company. Collaboration, information sharing, and cross-functional 

teamwork are fundamental to how we conduct our day-to-day activities.

We compete to win
We will create the leading integrated energy company with an unmatched 

work ethic, an analysis-driven and disciplined culture with strong leadership 

and decision-making throughout the organization.

We care about our key stakeholders
We care about our employees, customers, and communities where we live 

and do business. We will maintain productive and respectful relationships 

with our elected officials, regulators, and community leaders. We strive to 

achieve the full value of our enterprise for our investors.

Our  
Strategy

 Operational excellence of integrated generation/retail model

 Balance sheet strength and investment discipline

 Capture value, manage risk, and provide stable earnings

 Return capital to financial stakeholders

 Transition generation portfolio to low-to-no carbon-emitting resources 

 Corporate responsibility and citizenship

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report5

<< Table of Contents

Executive 
Summary

Lighting up people’s lives,  

powering a better way forward.

Guided by its purpose and core principles, Vis-

 •

Increasing  board  diversity  through  the 

tra is committed to balance providing afforda-

appointment of two new directors; currently, 

ble and reliable electricity with battling climate 

three of the 10 board members are women, 

change for all who rely on this essential resour-

and two of the 10 board members are ethni-

ce.  We’re  transitioning  our  generation  fleet  to 

cally diverse

low-to-no carbon resources and prioritizing all 

of  our  stakeholders.  Vistra’s  sustainability  stra-

tegy  is  built  on  the  foundation  of  its  business 

 • Launching  several  initiatives  to  enhance  di-
versity, equity, and inclusion, such as naming 

model — one  that  prioritizes  a  strong  balance 

a  chief  diversity  officer,  creating  a  diversity, 

sheet and low-cost, integrated operations. We 

equity,  and  inclusion  advisory  council,  en-

are already well on our way in the execution of 

hancing employee resource groups, creating 

our  strategy  to  combat  climate  change  with 

multiple  pathways  for  employee  advance-

more  than  12,000  MW  of  coal  and  gas  plant 

ment,  and  expanding  diverse  hiring  practi-

retirements  through  year-end  2020  and  ano-

ces including external recruiting efforts and 

ther  nearly  8,000  MW  planned  over  the  next 

relationships with Historically Black Colleges 

seven  years.  These  retirements  are  combined 

and Universities

with  ~4,000 MW of zero-carbon resources onli-

ne or actively under development in our Vistra 

Zero portfolio. In addition to being an industry 

 • Committing  $10  million  in  donations  over 
the  next  five  years  to  support  organizations 

leader in the effort to address climate change, 

that grow minority-owned small businesses, 

Vistra strives for excellence in employee safety, 

enhance  economic  development,  and  pro-

supply chain and employee diversity, commu-

vide  educational  opportunities  for  students 

nity impact, and the customer experience.

from diverse backgrounds

KEY  ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,  
AND GOVERNANCE EFFORTS IN 2020: 

 • Prioritizing  the  health  and  safety  of  emplo-
yees  and  contractors  during  the  COVID-19 

pandemic by implementing preventive me-

 • Adopting  a  sustainability  governance  fra-
mework  with  the  Board  having  ultimate 

asures  such  as  on-site  temperature  testing, 

requiring  proper  personal  protective  equip-

oversight  over  Vistra’s  ESG  initiatives  and 

ment,  maximizing  social  distancing,  main-

oversight  of  subject  matter-specific  com-

taining a work-from-home policy, and assis-

ponents  delegated  to  the  applicable  board 

ting  with  access  to  virus  testing  to  support 

committees

operations through the pandemic

 • Obtaining  stockholder  approval  and  amen-
ding  the  company’s  charter  to  declassify  the 

 • Supporting customers and communities du-
ring the COVID-19 pandemic by maintaining 

board and adopt annual elections for directors

customer service levels at all-time highs, do-

nating  $2  million  to  non-profits  and  social 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report6

<< Table of Contents

2020 Energy Production
~172 TWh

00..33%%

11%

33%

5566%%

service  agencies,  providing  nearly  180,000 

2021 Generating Capacity

masks and face coverings to employees and 

2021 Generating Capacity

local institutions, and assisting customers in 

00..77%%

11..22%%

paying their electric bills
6%

29%

 • Accelerating  GHG  emissions  reduction  tar-
gets with a goal to achieve a 60% reduction 

(increased  from  previous  target  of  50%)  in 
CO2 equivalent emissions by 2030 as compa-
red to a 2010 baseline, and a long-term goal 

63%

Coal Gas Nuclear Oil

2021 Generating Capacity

Renewables

2021 Generating Capacity

00..77%%

11..22%%

6%

29%

to  achieve  net-zero  carbon  emissions,  up 

from an 80% reduction target by 2050; over 

2030E Generating Capacity
Illustrative

45%  reduction  already  achieved  with  an  ex-

pected >50% reduction by 2026

18%

10%

 • Launching  Vistra  Zero,  a  generation  port-
folio  comprised  of  the  company’s  existing 

7%

nuclear, renewable, and energy storage faci-

2030E Generating Capacity
Illustrative

lities as well as the company’s emission-free 

renewable  projects  under  development  in 

Texas  and  California,  totaling  ~4,000  MW  of 

18%

10%

zero-carbon assets

7%

 • Continuing  to  transform  our  generation 

portfolio  to  newer,  more  efficient  and  less 

65%

environmentally 

impactful 

technologies, 

announcing  plans  to  retire  an  incremental 

nearly 8,000 MW of fossil-fueled assets in the 

MISO,  PJM,  and  ERCOT  markets  between 

2020  and  2027;  Vistra  has  retired  and  com-

mitted  to  retire  nearly  17,000  MW  since  Oc-

tober 2016, nearly half of the total generation 

capacity in the entire New England market

2020 Energy Production

~172 TWh

00..33%%

11%

33%

5566%%

63%

65%

2020 Energy Production

Coal Gas Nuclear Oil

2021 Generating Capacity

Renewables

~172 TWh

00..33%%

11%

33%

2021 Generating Capacity

00..77%%

11..22%%

6%

29%

2030E Generating Capacity
Illustrative

18%

10%

7%

65%

5566%%

63%

Coal Gas Nuclear Oil

Renewables

45%

76% OF 2030 EMISSIONS 
TARGET ACHIEVED;  
EXPECTING >80% AND 
>85% ACHIEVED BY 2023 
AND 2026, RESPECTIVELY

DECREASE

45% TOTAL GHG EMISSION 
REDUCTION SINCE 2010

7

Net-zero  

BY 2050

7

0.61 TOTAL  
RECORDABLE  
INJURY RATE

12

FACILITIES 
WITH OSHA 
VPP STAR 
RATING

Nearly $8M

OF CHARITABLE GIVING 

7

~8,000 MW 
OF FOSSIL-FUELED 
PLANTS TO RETIRE BY 
YEAR-END 2027

~4,000 MW 

OF ZERO-CARBON 
GENERATION ONLINE OR 
UNDER DEVELOPMENT 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report7

<< Table of Contents

Letter from 
the CEO

Vistra stood strong throughout 
2020 — working together as a team.

THROUGHOUT  THIS  YEAR’S  REPORT,  YOU 
will notice a common theme: “We care about 

millions  of  Texans  without  power.  During  the 

storm,  Vistra  once  again  held  true  to  its  core 

our  key  stakeholders” — one  of  Vistra’s  core 

principles as our employees went to extraordi-

principles  and  a  guiding  benchmark  for  our 

nary efforts to maintain and restore power for 

company. Never before has this core principle 

the  people  of  Texas.  Our  power  plant  person-

been  as  important  as  it  was  in  2020 — a  year 

nel worked around the clock in below-freezing 

that  tested  the  nation  on  dual  fronts  as  the 

temperatures to keep our assets running, and 

world  faced  the  disruption  and  health  risks 

other employees, including those on our com-

brought on by a global pandemic, and the U.S. 

mercial team, rotated round-the-clock shifts to 

addressed issues of racial injustice and inequi-

maintain 24/7 operations. During this extraor-

ty. No one could have predicted the adversity 

dinary event, we consistently put more power 

2020 would bring, but Vistra rose to the occa-

on  the  electric  grid  than  our  market  share. 

sion, turning these challenges into opportuni-

Additionally,  our  retail  business  team  assured 

ties  and  supporting  all  of  our  stakeholders  as 

customers they would be insulated from price 

we  became  a  part  of  the  solution.  Vistra  and 

spikes  related  to  the  storm,  and  Vistra  swiftly 

its  employees  adapted  and  shifted  strategies 

donated  $5  million  to  support  our  commu-

throughout the pandemic to support our cus-

nities  and  customers  impacted  by  the  storm. 

tomers,  the  communities  we  serve,  and  help 

That  unconditional  commitment  to  provide 

provide the essential power to keep this nation 

our customers with power and insulate them 

running.  Vistra  also  reaffirmed  and  extended 

from any price risk had a substantial impact on 

efforts  to  support  the  advancement  of  diver-

our financials, as the costs to supply customers 

se  communities,  minority-,  women-,  veteran-, 

with power skyrocketed. This disconnect is the 

LGBTQ-  and  disability-owned  business  enter-

product  of  a  broken  system,  but  our  actions 

prises  and  small  businesses,  as  well  as  equity 

were not — they were the right thing to do.

in  education.  Vistra  stood  strong  throughout 

2020 — working together as a team to genera-

Sustainability has different meanings to many 

te innovative solutions for our customers, com-

of us, but for Vistra, one of those meanings was 

munities, suppliers, and each other. 

front and center as a result of Winter Storm Uri. 

The  debt-burdened  independent  power  pro-

Then,  in  February  2021,  we  were  faced  with 

ducers (IPPs) of the past would likely not have 

another  challenge — Winter  Storm  Uri — an 

survived, but our commitment to a strong ba-

unprecedented  winter  weather  event  that 

lance sheet and integrated operations not only 

brought  the  coldest  temperatures  Texas  has 

sustained  us  but  afforded  us  the  opportunity 

seen  on  record.  The  intensity  and  duration 

to continue our strategy to transform the com-

of  the  storm  resulted  in  surging  demand  for 

pany. We realized risks in our business in Texas 

power,  gas  supply  shortages,  and  operational 

no one thought existed, such as a failure of the 

challenges  for  power  generators,  which  left 

inextricably  linked  natural  gas  system.  Never-

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report8

<< Table of Contents

theless, Vistra will persevere, and we will make 

changes  to  our  business  to  defend  against 

 • Provided more transparency to ESG disclosu-
res by adopting the Sustainable Accounting 

these risks in the future. After all, is that not the 

Standards Board (SASB) and Global Reporting 

true definition of sustainability?

Initiative (GRI) frameworks and completing 

The challenges we faced in 2020 and early 2021 

 • Published a Task Force on Climate-related 

have  further  defined  who  we  are  as  an  orga-

Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guided Climate 

nization and what purpose we serve, provided 

Report, outlining Vistra’s resilience in the face 

us  an  opportunity  to  refine  our  sustainability 

of identified climate-related risks and opportu-

practices  and  procedures  further,  and  highli-

nities arising from various climate scenarios

CDP’s climate change questionnaire

ghted  the  importance  of  the  strategic  trans-

formation of our company to be a sustainable, 

As  I  look  toward  the  future,  I  see  a  company 

leading  electricity  provider.  In  the  pages  that 

that is poised to meet any challenge head-on. 

follow, we outline Vistra’s 2020 ESG initiatives, 

Our business model is resilient, and, as our his-

with some of our highlights including:

tory demonstrates, we know how to execute. In 

order  to  be  sustainable,  you must  be  adapta-

 • Enhanced Vistra’s Diversity, Equity, and  

ble, and we demonstrated this prowess during 

Inclusion (DEI) program 

 • Declassified board of directors
 • Implemented procedures to protect emplo-
yees and mitigate impacts of COVID-19 on 

business

 • Committed $2 million in COVID-19 relief, $10 
million for organizations working for social 

Uri in exemplary fashion. We expect to lead in 

the  energy  transition  as  we  supply  affordable 

and  reliable  power  via  our  low-to-no  carbon 

generation  assets,  supporting  the  increased 

demand for electricity from the electrification 

of  the  economy  while  also  serving  our  custo-

mers  with  innovative  green  energy  solutions, 

justice and equity, and $5 million for Texas 

creating  value  for  our  financial  stakeholders, 

communities and customers impacted by 

and  strengthening  our  relationships  with  our 

Winter Storm Uri

communities and suppliers. 

 • Accelerated GHG emissions reduction targets, 

with goals of:

 ◦ 60% reduction by 2030, compared to 

2010 baseline

 ◦ Net-zero-carbon emissions by 2050
 • Led advocacy efforts supporting public policy 
initiatives that will advance our country’s pro-

gress toward lowering GHG emissions

 • Launched Vistra Zero, a generation portfolio 

Curt Morgan

consisting of ~4,000 MW of zero-carbon gene-

Chief Executive Officer

ration online or under development

 • Announced the development of ~850 MW of 

solar and energy storage projects in Texas and 

the retirement timeline for nearly 8,000 MW of 

fossil-fueled generation assets 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
9

<< Table of Contents

CPSO’s Message

The Vistra team united around  
our purpose in 2020, powering  
a better way forward

AS  CURT  RECOUNTS,  THE  ADVERSITY  WE 
faced  in  2020  helped  define  who  we  are  as  a 

corporation.  Corporations  must  expand  their 

our part to help our nation accelerate toward a 

clean energy future. 

purpose  beyond  just  shareholders  to  a  more 

In  the  pages  that  follow,  we  are  proud  to 

diverse  set  of  stakeholders,  and  they  must 

highlight  several  of  our  key  ESG  initiatives 

stand up and be part of the solution. At Vistra, 

and  accomplishments  from  2020.  If  you  have 

this means investing in our employees, putting 

questions  about  any  of  the  disclosures  in  this 

customers  and  suppliers  first,  and  making 

report  or  about  any  of  Vistra’s  ESG-related 

a  genuine  effort  to  better  the  communities 

initiatives,  please  do  not  hesitate  to  reach 

where we live, work, and serve. 

out  to  me  at  Molly.Sorg@vistracorp.com.  We 

appreciate your engagement and look forward 

In  early  2021,  Vistra  formalized  its  corporate 

to the future we can create together.

purpose:

“Lighting up people’s lives,  
powering a better way forward.”

Our purpose is our guiding light, directing all 

Molly Sorg

of  our  current  and  future  business  activities 

Chief Purpose and Sustainability Officer  

(below).  At  Vistra,  we  believe  we  can  light  up 

and SVP of Investor Relations

the lives of all of our stakeholders while we do 

Lighting Up People’s Lives

Powering a Better Way Forward

Providing affordable and reliable power

Adopting accelerated GHG reduction targets, 

including a commitment to net-zero by 2050

Supporting our communities through chari-

table giving and volunteer programs

Transitioning generation assets through coal 

plant retirements and investments in solar 

and energy storage

Prioritizing employee safety and engage-

ment

Developing innovative products and services 

to meet our customers’ growing demand for 

clean energy

Offering customers innovative products and 

Enhancing the efficiency of our generation 

services and financial assistance through 

fleet through our Operations Performance 

various customer assistance programs

Improvement initiative

Contracting with small business enterprises 

and diverse suppliers

Leading in climate change advocacy through 

corporate initiatives and participation in vari-

ous non-governmental organizations

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability ReportOur Approach to 
Sustainability

VISTRA IS A LEADING INTEGRATED RETAIL ELECTRICITY 

and power generation company, providing an essential 

resource — electricity — to customers, commerce, and  

communities. As a leader in the power sector, we are  

committed to addressing climate change by transforming 

our fleet to low-to-no carbon resources and advocating for 

economy-wide carbon solutions while also bettering our 

communities, our workplace, and our relationships with 

our customers, suppliers, and investors. 

From climate change to social justice, during pandemics 

and natural disasters, Vistra understands that corporations 

must stand up and be a part of the solution. Guided by  

our purpose and core principles, Vistra invests in our em-

ployees, prioritizes all of our stakeholders, and strives to 

better the communities where we live, work, and serve. 

We believe that conducting business through this lens 

ultimately leads to higher levels of customer satisfaction, 

more committed and engaged employees, and a stronger 

brand, which in turn leads to a more sustainable company. 

11

<< Table of Contents

ADVOCACY 
Vistra  takes  a  leadership  role  in  advocacy 

electric vehicle sales by 2030. As a member of 

this  non-partisan  group,  Vistra  is  in  the  uni-

efforts, supporting public policy initiatives that 

que  position  to  promote  electrification  of  the 

will  advance  the  country’s  progress  toward 

transportation  sector,  support  the  buildout  of 

lowering  GHG  emissions.  Specifically,  Vistra  is 

infrastructure,  collaborate  on  innovation,  and 

a  founding  member  of  the  Climate  Leaders-

promote competitive electric markets. 

hip  Council  and  its  advocacy  arm,  Americans 

for  Carbon  Dividends.  Vistra  actively  supports 

We understand and appreciate that our voice 

the CLC’s framework of a consistently applied 

can make a difference as state and federal po-

national  carbon  fee  and  dividend  approach 

licies supporting climate change are adopted.  

with a border tax adjustment as the ideal pu-

We are committed to advocating for the coun-

blic policy solution to appropriately incentivize 

try’s  accelerated  transition  to  a  lower-carbon 

investments  in  carbon-free  and  carbon-redu-

future  while  providing  affordable  and  reliable 

cing technologies. The CLC has estimated that 

electricity, and maintaining the strength of the 

if  its  plan  were  to  be  implemented  in  2021,  it 
would cut U.S. CO2 emissions in half by 2035 (as 
compared to 2005) and far exceed the U.S. Pa-

ris commitment.

American economy.

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Vistra’s  strategic  decisions  are  informed  by  all 

of  our  stakeholders — customers,  suppliers, 

In  2020,  Vistra  further  advocated  for  policies 

local  communities,  employees,  contractors, 

that  would  help  support  the  nation’s  clean 

regulators,  politicians,  investors,  and  the  en-

energy transition by leading an effort at the Fe-

vironment,  among  others.  Through  various 

deral  Energy  Regulatory  Commission  to  con-

touchpoints and engagement during the year, 

sider  and  encourage  regional  carbon  pricing, 

Vistra provides a collaborative environment for 

working  with  stakeholders  in  the  competitive 

constructive dialogue with all of our stakehol-

electricity  markets  of  both  PJM  and  ISO-NE 

ders  on  various  ESG  interests  and  concerns. 

on  carbon-pricing  regimes,  and  advocating 

These discussions help inform the disclosures 

for legislation in Illinois, the Illinois Coal to So-

within this report and advance our sustainabi-

lar  &  Energy  Storage  Act,  that  would  support 

lity strategy and best practices. 

the  conversion  of  retiring  coal  plant  sites  to 

zero-emission  generation  centers  through  in-

Further,  Vistra  seeks  to  enhance  its  ESG  en-

vestments  in  solar  and  batteries.  This  legisla-

gagement  through  various  peer  networking 

tion  would  bring  an  immediate  ~$550 million 

groups,  trade  associations,  and  sustainabili-

investment  in  renewable  energy  infrastructu-

ty-focused  organizations  that  provide  oppor-

re  to  Vistra’s  sites  through  the  development 

tunities  to  discuss  and  research  insights  on 

of  ~300  MW  of  utility-scale  solar  and  175  MW 

best practices, industry trends, advancements 

of  battery  energy  storage.  The  repowering  of 

in  climate  change  technologies  and  disclosu-

Vistra’s  existing  sites  to  renewable  resources 

res,  and  human  capital  management  initiati-

would  further  facilitate  components  of  a  just 

ves, among others. Vistra team members and/

transition,  as  the  redevelopment  would  offer 

or its CEO are members of the following orga-

employment  opportunities  and  a  new,  reve-

nizations:

nue-generating asset to support the tax base 

in the local communities.

Joining  trade  groups  and  participating  in  ad-

 • Business Roundtable
 • World50
 • Chief Executives for Corporate  

vocacy  efforts  extends  beyond  Vistra’s  own 

Purpose® (CECP)

utility sector. In September 2020, Vistra joined 

the Zero Emissions Transportation Association 

as a founding member. ZETA advocates for po-
licies  that  will  enable  meeting  a  goal  of  100% 

 • CEOAction for Diversity and Inclusion
 • BSR
 • Electric Power Supply Association (EPSA)
 • Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI)

EXAMPLES OF 
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT

 Investor calls and  

conferences

 Meetings with state,  
local and  federal  
officials

 Employee town halls

 Employee  

engagement surveys

 Market research

 Customer quality  
questionnaires

 Company publications  

and social media

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
 
 
 
 
12

<< Table of Contents

COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT: 
MORRO BAY

Vistra engages with the 

surrounding communi-

ties to facilitate dialogue, 

provide education, receive 

feedback, and address po-

tential impacts of our oper-

ations. For example, Vistra 

is proposing to build a 600 

MW battery energy storage 

system at its retired Morro 

Bay Power Plant site (right). 

In early 2021, Vistra made 

presentations at virtual 

town hall meetings with 

the Morro Bay City Council. 

Vistra took public questions 

ranging from potential en-

vironmental issues to basic 

energy savings.

DISCLOSURE TRANSPARENCY 
Vistra  has  adopted  globally  accepted  sustai-

MATERIAL TOPICS
Pursuant to the GRI framework, Vistra’s Sustai-

nability frameworks and standards to provide 

nability  Reporting  Committee,  which  is  com-

key  disclosures  to  all  of  our  stakeholders.  In 

prised of team leaders from various functional 

particular,  this  report  and  the  corresponding 

groups within the organization, conducted an 

index  were  prepared  in  accordance  with  the 

“issues assessment” to identify what we belie-

Global  Reporting  Initiative  (GRI)  Standards, 

ve are the key, material disclosures pertinent to 

Core  Option,  and  also  includes  Sustainability 

our organization. As a reflection of this assess-

Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosu-

ment and review by Vistra’s board of directors, 

res as outlined for Electric Utilities and Power 

you  will  find  in  our  2020  Sustainability  Report 

Generators. Vistra published a Climate Report 

and GRI Index a discussion of the following sus-

in  accordance  with  the  Task  Force  on  Clima-

tainability disclosures: Economic Performance, 

te-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in Sep-

Tax,  Energy,  Water  and  Effluents,  Emissions, 

tember  of  2020.  This  report  can  be  found  on 

Waste,  Environmental  Compliance,  Employ-

our website.

ment, Occupational Health and Safety, Training 

and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportuni-

In  2020,  Vistra  voluntarily  disclosed,  for  the 

ty, Public Policy, and Customer Privacy. In addi-

first  time,  environmental  data  through  CDP’s 

tion,  relevant  financial  implications  and  a  dis-

climate  change  questionnaire  and  received  a 

cussion  of  risks  and  opportunities  associated 

management level score of ‘B,’ which recogni-

with some of these issues, can be found in Part 

zes companies that are taking coordinated ac-

I, Item 1A, in our 2020 Form 10-K.

tion on climate issues. This score is significantly 

above the North American regional average of 

‘D’ and puts Vistra on par with its energy utility 

peers. Vistra’s CDP response is available on our 

website. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report13

<< Table of Contents

ESG Governance 
Framework 

VISTRA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Creating  a  sustainable  company  requires  a 

ter-specific components delegated to relevant 

board  committees,  as  referenced  in  the  gra-

commitment to all facets of ESG stewardship, 

phic  below.  ESG-related  topics  are  discussed 

including:

at  each  scheduled  quarterly  board  and  com-

mittee meeting, and on a more frequent basis 

 • Addressing climate change and being good stewards 

as necessary.

of environmental resources

 • Supporting all of our stakeholders, including emplo-
yees, contractors, suppliers, customers, local commu-

Vistra is led by a team of industry veterans with 

expertise across all areas of the energy and re-

nities, and investors, among others 

tail  businesses,  including  a  board  of  directors 

 • Maintaining appropriate governance frameworks
 • Providing a long-term vision and sustainable strategy 

with  a  diverse  set  of  experiences  providing 

oversight and governance. Details about each 

of  our  directors’  experience  is  further  detai-

Vistra’s  policies  and  initiatives  are  intercon-

led in our 2021 proxy statement. Each director 

nected and collectively contribute to the com-

brings ESG experience through either climate 

pany’s  long-term  sustainability.  Given  this  in-

change  and  sustainable  strategy/policy  expe-

terconnectedness, ultimately, the oversight of 

rience, human capital management/DEI expe-

Vistra’s  ESG  initiatives  is  governed  by  the  full 

rience, or both. To ensure the board and senior 

Vistra  board,  with  oversight  of  subject  mat-

management  stay  current  on  climate  issues 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

SUSTAINABILITY  

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND 

AND RISK COMMITTEE

NOMINATING AND  

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE

Oversees corporate risk 

management, including the 

management and tracking 

of environmental risks and 

opportunities, as well as external 

sustainability reporting

GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE

Oversees corporate  

governance framework

Oversees Vistra’s social 

responsibility initiatives, 

including talent management, 

compensation, diversity,  

equity, and inclusion, and culture  

and community involvement

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Responsible for all sustainability and ESG strategy including the setting  

and achievement of long-term emission reduction targets

CHIEF PURPOSE AND SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER

Partners with internal functional teams to develop, elevate, and 

externally communicate Vistra’s sustainabilty and ESG initiatives

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report14

<< Table of Contents

and  sustainability  trends,  Vistra  works  with 

requires  an  annual  election  with  majority  vo-

outside  consultants  and  experts  who  provide 

ting for directors, Vistra’s board is comprised of 

training to the management team on climate 

10  members,  three  of  whom  are  women  and 

issues  and  sustainability  trends.  For  example, 

two of whom are ethnically diverse.

in  2019,  Vistra  management  engaged  Boston 

Consulting  Group  for  a  series  of  workshops 

on  climate  change,  which  included  guest 

VISTRA MANAGEMENT
The board has delegated management of the 

speakers such as Joseph Majkut, PhD and di-

company’s day-to-day operations, including all 

rector  of  climate  policy  at  Niskanen  Center. 

ESG initiatives, to Vistra’s executive officers. Key 

Then  in  2020,  Vistra  consulted  with  McKinsey 

officers  responsible  for  various  sustainability 

on climate issues and sustainability trends and 

initiatives include:

engaged Rivel to support Vistra’s sustainability 

initiatives and reporting. In the spring of 2021, 

 • Chief executive officer: provides day-to-day oversight 
and ultimate responsibility for all sustainability and 

Vistra once again engaged Boston Consulting 

ESG strategy.

Group to lead a fresh series of workshops with 

senior  management  and  the  board  on  ESG 

trends and emerging climate-related risks and 

opportunities.

DIRECTOR EXPERTISE

BOARD COMPOSITION

 • Chief purpose and sustainability officer: responsible for 
the development, implementation, and management 

of Vistra’s sustainability strategy and related ESG initia-

tives. The CPSO has a dual role as senior vice president 

of investor relations, providing the benefit of hearing 

from and communicating directly with stakeholders, 

including investors, regarding Vistra’s sustainability ini-

tiatives. The CPSO also leads two working committees: 

 ◦ the Sustainability Reporting Committee, whose 
membership includes internal stakeholders that 

provide the metrics and content for the annual 

sustainability report and various ESG surveys.

 ◦ the Sustainability Advocacy Committee, 

whose members include internal stakeholders 

involved in climate policy development and 

advocacy. 

 • Chief financial officer: chairs the Risk Management 

Committee (as described below) providing oversight to 

Vistra’s risk management. Reporting to the CFO is the 

chief risk officer who leads the enterprise risk assess-

ment and management process. 

 • Chief administrative officer: oversees human capital 

management and compensation for the enterprise. Re-

porting to the CAO is Vistra’s chief diversity officer who 

develops, directs, and oversees the implementation of 

Vistra’s DEI initiatives.

 • Executive vice president and general counsel: oversees 
the governance and compliance of the organization, in 

addition to all legal matters. Reporting to the general 

counsel is the senior vice president of environmental 

health and safety, who is responsible for the mana-

gement of environmental reporting, performance, 

compliance, and employee safety programs.

The extensive mix of skills, knowledge, and ex-

comprise  the  primary  governance  forums  for 

perience  the  board  brings  is  a  direct  result  of 

day-to-day management of the company: Ma-

the diversity of our board members. After the 

nagement Committee, Commitments Commit-

2021  annual  meeting  of  stockholders,  which 

tee, and Risk Management Committee.

There  are  three  standing  committees  that 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report15

<< Table of Contents

EXECUTIVE / MANAGEMENT  
COMMITTEES

COMMITMENTS  

COMMITTEE

RISK MANAGEMENT 

COMMITTEE

MEMBERS:

 • CEO 
 • CEO’s direct reports
 • Leaders who represent key business 

areas and support functions

Voting members: 
 • CEO (chair)
 • CFO
 • general counsel
 • CAO
 • chief commercial officer
 • president of retail
 • executive vice president of renewables/
battery storage/fossil operations

Standing invitees:
 • all other direct reports of CEO 
 • other key functional and operational 

 • CEO
 • CFO (chair)
 • chief commercial officer
 • CRO
 • president of retail
 • treasurer 
 • senior vice president of  
planning and analytics

 • controller
 • vice president of regulatory compliance 

(trading and generation)

MEETING 
OCCURENCE:

Weekly

Weekly

Weekly

Provides the forum for discussion and decision-

Provides operational oversight of Vistra’s 

Provides risk management oversight, monitoring, 

making related to general strategy and policy 

material commitment activities, ensuring that 

control, and guidance for all risk management 

items, operational updates, information sharing, 

an appropriate level of analysis, review, and 

activities at Vistra, approving risk management 

FUNCTION:

prioritization, and cross-business and cross-

approvals are performed prior to committing or 

activities within limits delegated by the board of 

functional coordination

deploying capital, approving transactions within 

directors

transaction authority limits delegated by the 

Vistra board of directors

VISTRA’S RISK MATRIX

RISK MANAGEMENT
Vistra’s  governance  framework  includes  a  ro-

bust  enterprise  risk  analysis,  through  which 

all  functional  groups  in  the  company  provide 

input  on  key  business,  regulatory,  market,  le-

gal,  and  climate  risks,  among  other  potential 

areas  of  threat.  The  risk  management  process 

is  owned  by  the  CRO,  who  meets  periodically 

with every functional group in Vistra to review 

the risk universe for any relevant updates with a 

detailed analysis performed on an annual basis.

During  the  annual  process,  risks  are  evalua-

ted across a matrix based on the likelihood of 

occurrence  and  severity  or  potential  financial 

impact  to  the  business.  New  risks  are  added, 

outdated  risks  are  removed,  and  current  risks 

can  be  recategorized  during  the  process.  All 

risks identified are then provided two ratings: 

(1) a residual rating, reflecting the potential im-

pacts of the risk, assuming that existing miti-

gating processes and controls remain in place, 

and (2) an inherent rating, which is the rating 

of the risk without any existing mitigants. The 

output of this process is then reviewed by Vis-

tra’s Risk Management Committee and repor-

ted  to  the  Sustainability  and  Risk  Committee 

of the board.

In addition to this comprehensive annual pro-

cess,  the  CRO  reviews  the  risk  universe  with 

functional leads every quarter and on an inte-

rim basis as needed to address emerging risks 

to ensure the risk matrix is current throughout 

the year. These quarterly and interim updates 

are also reported to the Sustainability and Risk 

Committee of the board. Management utilizes 

the output from the risk framework to antici-

pate  emerging  risks,  integrate  risk  manage-

ment  into  business  planning,  and  take  steps 

to  mitigate  the  potential  impact  of  any  iden-

tified risks on the operations and performance 

of the business. 

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
CHANGES FOR 2021
In furtherance of the company’s continued fo-

cus on ESG initiatives, the Social Responsibility 

and  Compensation  Committee  of  the  board 

approved  a  new  ESG  Index  as  part  of  Vistra’s 

2021 Executive Annual Incentive Plan scorecard 
with a 10% weighting. The performance of the 

company  on  the  categories  measured  by  the 

ESG Index will factor into the short-term incen-

tive compensation for all employees in the or-

ganization. To align management’s compensa-

tion with Vistra’s important ESG and DEI goals, 

the ESG Index measures:

 • GHG emissions reduction targets tracking to achieve 

60% reduction by 2030 and net-zero by 2050,

 • GHG-related advocacy efforts,

 • DEI initiatives, including the implementation of various 
DEI programs, training and reporting enhancements, 

and updated recruiting efforts, and

 • Supplier diversity expansion

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
16

<< Table of Contents

COVID-19  
Response

COVID-19,  which  began  spreading  widely  in 

As  a  result,  Vistra  was  able  to  operate  safely, 

the U.S. in 2020, has proved to be a deadly, hi-

continuing  to  provide  essential  electricity  to 

ghly disruptive disease that not only threatens 

our  more  than  4  million  customers  who  rely 

people’s  health  but  has  tested  and  strained 

on  us  to  power  their  daily  lives.  In  2020,  our 

the  economy  and  businesses.  Vistra  quickly 

operations  teams  executed  more  than  130 

took  proactive  measures  to  protect  our  em-

planned  outages  at  power  plants;  with  ove-

ployees and mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 
on our operations. For instance, Vistra:

rall  performance  on  time  and  on  budget,  in-
cluding two refueling outages at our nuclear 

 • Created  a  taskforce,  in  February  2020,  to 
begin  managing  the  travel  of  employees 

that then evolved into a nearly 24/7 emplo-

yee  resource  for  managing  positive  cases, 

plant;  provided  customer  service  levels  at 

all-time  highs;  and  retained  employment  for 

all  dedicated  employees  under  specific  CO-

VID-19 protocols.

assisting  employees  with  accessing  medi-

We  also  prioritized  our  customers  and  local 

cal  care,  managing  employee  quarantines, 

communities,  committing  $2  million  directly 

and  safely  returning  essential  employees 

to COVID-19 relief, supporting more than 100 

to work throughout the pandemic

agency  partners,  and  assisting  over  50  cities. 

 • Created  daily  operations  calls  to  manage 
COVID-19  cases,  ensure  consistency  in  the 

quickly  evolving  pandemic  environment, 

and keep power plants operating safely 

 • Suspended all non-essential business travel

We became a corporate partner to Comp-U-

Dopt  to  bridge  the  digital  divide  with  funds 

going  directly  toward  the  purchase  of  nearly 

2,000  refurbished,  free-of-charge  laptops  for 

families  without  a  computer  in  the  home. 

Additionally,  the  company  provided  nearly 

 • Restricted  access  to  corporate  offices  and 

180,000  masks  and  face  coverings  to  emplo-

power plants

 •

Initiated early implementation of temperatu-

re testing and entry questionnaires at all sites

 •

Instituted  a  work-from-home  policy  for  all 
employees with remote-work capabilities

 • Created  individualized  plans  at  our  plants 
and  corporate  offices  to  enable  social  dis-

tancing  for  employees  deemed  essential 

and required to be at work

 • Distributed face coverings

yees  and  their  family  members,  area  hospi-

tals,  and  schools.  Another  significant  portion 

of the funding went toward providing critical 

access  to  meals  with  more  than  $750,000  in 

contributions  to  food  banks  and  food  pan-

tries  across  the  country.  Additionally,  nearly 

$100,000  went  to  support  small  businesses 

impacted  by  the  pandemic.  Keeping  our 

customers at the center of everything we do, 

Vistra  implemented  flexible  options  to  waive 

late  fees,  extend  payment  dates,  and  arran-

ge  payment  plans  for  customers  impacted 

 • Enhanced cleaning practices

by  COVID-19.  We  further  assisted  customers 

in  paying  their  electric  bills  through  our  TXU 
Energy AidSM program.

 •

Increased  transparency  through  multiple 

avenues  of  communications  with  emplo-

yees,  including  implementation  of  weekly 

all-employee livestreams hosted by the CEO

 • Provided  COVID-19  testing  through  our 
third-party  medical  provider,  who  is  also 

approved and prepared to assist in adminis-

tration of vaccines

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report17

<< Table of Contents

United Nations 
Sustainable  
Development
Goals

Launched  in  2015,  the  17  Sustainable  Develo-

Vistra’s  sustainability  strategy  predominate-

pment Goals are a global set of goals, targets, 

ly  supports  four  of  the  SDGs:  Affordable  and 

and  indicators  developed  by  the  United  Na-

Clean  Energy,  Decent  Work  and  Economic 

tions  to  guide  countries,  communities,  and 

Growth, Sustainable Cities and Communities, 

organizations in their work to create a sustai-

and Life on Land. We have highlighted various 

nable world by 2030. Many of Vistra’s business 

actions made by the company that help meet 

activities  are  in  alignment  with  several  SDGs. 

the targets of each UN SDG.

A  full  mapping  of  the  SDGs  to  our  business 

activities can be found in the GRI Index in the 

appendix of this report. 

Ensure access to affordable, 

Promote inclusive and sus-

Make cities inclusive, safe, 

Sustainably manage forests, 

reliable, sustainable and

tainable economic growth, 

modern energy for all: 

employment and decent 

 • 180 MW active solar 
plant in Texas 
 • ~450 MW of Energy 
Storage Projects in 

California

 • ~850 MW of solar and 
energy storage under 

development in Texas

 • One of the largest 
wind purchasers in 

Texas

 • Advocates and 

work for all: 

 • Training and deve-
lopment programs 

at every level to help 

grow and develop 

employees 

 • Employee-initiated 
and -led resource 

groups for individuals 

to participate in, 

based on demogra-

resilient, and sustainable:
 • Solar developer and 
provider of solar 

panels for residential 

customers
 • Power plant  
optimization
 • EV car charging 

stations

 • Supports numerous 
city efficiency efforts 
 • Payment assistance 
through TXU Energy 

combat desertification, halt 

and reverse land degradation 

and halt biodiversity loss: 
 • 45+ years of Land 
Reclamation
 • 300,000+ trees  

provided by Vistra 

Trees for Growth
 • TXU Energy Urban 
Tree Farm and  

Education Center

 • Luminant  

Environmental  

Research Program

phics, interests, and 

AidSM

supports competitive 

purpose

energy markets
 • Renewable retail pro-
ducts and solutions 

offered in all retail 

electricity markets

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability ReportAt the  
Workplace

THE SUCCESS AND LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF  

our company is not possible without Vistra’s No. 1 asset — our 

people. One of our core principles is we work as a team. We 

are One Team, a group of talented, diverse, and dedicated 

employees. Prioritizing our employees’ safety, creating 

an equitable workplace, investing in training and deve-

lopment, and providing generous benefits and wellness 

offerings are all priorities at Vistra. 

19

<< Table of Contents

CODE OF CONDUCT
Conducting  business  the  right  way—with  the 

Vistra  strictly  enforces  confidentiality  and  the 

“no retaliation” provisions of our Code of Con-

utmost  integrity,  holding  ourselves  to  high 

duct. Employees can use The Compliance Hel-

ethical standards, and acting in compliance—is 

pline as a resource to anonymously submit any 

a core principle of Vistra and the foundation for 

ethical or compliance concerns, including vio-

our  operations.  Vistra’s  Code  of  Conduct  esta-

lations  of  Vistra’s  Code  of  Conduct,  via  phone 

blishes  the  ethics  and  compliance  standards 

or online. 

for employees at all levels across the company, 

including  our  board  members.  Various  issues 

While many human rights issues are addressed 

and  situations  within  the  workplace  and  be-

in  Vistra’s  Code  of  Conduct,  Vistra  also  has  a 

stand-alone  human  rights 

policy, which can be found 

on our website, committing 

the company to respect all 

internationally  recognized 

human rights as embodied 

in  the 

International  Bill 

of  Human  Rights  and 

the 

International  Labor 

Organization’s  Declaration 

on Fundamental Principles 

and Rights at Work. 

OPEN FEEDBACK 
CULTURE
Vistra  promotes  and  ac-

commodates  an 

“open 

door”  policy,  as  well  as 

“skip-level”  access  to  lea-

yond,  including  human  rights,  equal  employ-

dership. This policy is facilitated by an open offi-

ment,  and  DEI  are  covered  in  Vistra’s  Code  of 

ce  environment,  where  employees  may  easily 

Conduct,  which  can  be  found  on  our  website. 

access leadership across the organization. Prior 

The Audit Committee of the board of directors 

to COVID-19, Vistra held quarterly town halls at 

reviews  the  Code  of  Conduct  annually.  Vistra 

our headquarters and livestreamed across the 

employees and directors are required to com-

company. Vistra utilized the livestream techno-

plete a Code of Conduct training on an annual 

logy and communicated to employees at every 

basis.  Reflective  of  our  top-down  compliance 

stage  of  the  pandemic  through  weekly,  then 

culture, we had 100% completion in 2020. 

biweekly,  and  now  monthly  virtual  town  halls 

hosted  by  Vistra’s  CEO.  In  addition  to  updates 

While the Code of Conduct is specifically writ-

on  the  pandemic,  vaccines,  social  justice,  and 

ten for Vistra employees and board members, 

other  topics  that  arise,  employees  are  invited 

we expect contractors, interns, and others who 

to  submit  questions  or  suggest  topics  anony-

may be temporarily assigned to perform work 

mously  prior  to  each  virtual  gathering.  These 

or services for Vistra to follow the Code of Con-

town  halls  have  provided  employees  frequent 

duct in connection with their work for us. Failu-

and  open  communication,  bringing  the  com-

re of a contractor or other covered service pro-

pany  together.  Vistra  intends  to  continue  the 

vider to follow the Code of Conduct can result 

regular  communications  even  after  returning 

in termination of their relationship with Vistra. 

to a new normal.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report20

<< Table of Contents

Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion

Vistra has always aimed to create and maintain 

 • Expanding our mentoring and pro-bono consulting 

an  environment  where  differences  are  valued 

services for minority-owned small businesses

and 

respected,  enhancing  Vistra’s  ability 

to  recruit  and  retain  the  best  talent  in  the 

EDUCATION

marketplace  and  to  better  understand  and 

serve  our  customers.  The  events  that  occurred 

 • Establishing endowed scholarships for HBCUs and 
those with significant multi-cultural student bodies, 

across the nation in 2020 brought social justice 

including Prairie View A&M University, Paul Quinn 

issues to the forefront. While Vistra understands 

College, and Texas State Technical College, located in 

the  value  and  has  seen  the  benefits  of  having 

Vistra’s home state of Texas

a  diverse  and  inclusive  workforce,  the  events 

 • Advancing access to education and opportunities 

challenged  us  to  look  inside  our  own  walls 

through the United Negro College Fund in Dallas and 

to  care  for  our  people  and  become  a  better, 

Tarrant County

stronger, and more equitable workplace.

IMMEDIATE ACTION  
AND INITIATIVES
Vistra took two immediate actions in response 

 • Fostering the educational advancement of Hispanic 
students through the Hispanic Scholarship Fund
 • Supporting early childhood literacy and kindergarten 

readiness through our sustained and sizable donations 

from our company and employees to the United Way 

and its Strong Start Initiative 

to  the  racial 

injustice  events  brought  to 

 • Partnering and volunteering with elementary schools 

the  forefront  in  2020:  (i)  we  committed  $10 

in low-income and minority communities

million  over  the  next  five  years  to  support  the 

advancement of diverse communities, and (ii) we 

Vistra will continue to allocate dollars to these 

held listening sessions with employees. Vistra’s 

initiatives while also responding to new needs 

monetary  commitment  was  a  reaffirmation 

and contributing to innovative programs. 

and  extension  of  our  existing  efforts,  which 

focus on national, state, and local organizations 

Throughout the year, senior management held 

that  grow  minority-owned  small  businesses, 

nearly  30  internal  listening  sessions  to  hear 

enhance  economic  development,  and  provide 

employees’ thoughts and experiences on race 

and 

improve  educational  opportunities  for 

in  their  lives  and  within  the  workplace.  Vistra 

students  from  diverse  backgrounds.  Vistra’s 

took  the  feedback  from  these  sessions,  along 

initial contributions focused on:

with  feedback  from  its  inaugural  Employee 

SMALL BUSINESSES  

& ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Engagement  Survey,  to  launch  multiple  DEI 

initiatives (see table, next page).

 • Providing immediate relief to rebuild minority-ow-
ned small businesses and invest in their long-term 

These initiatives are all underway and will pro-

vide  insight  into  the  next  evolution  of  Vistra’s 

DEI  journey.  To  oversee  the  development,  di-

growth through national and state organizations and 

rection,  and  implementation  of  Vistra’s  DEI 

their local affiliates like the National Minority Supplier 

program,  Vistra  appointed  a  chief  diversity 

Development Council, Black Chambers of Commer-

officer in January 2021. Vistra’s CDO is respon-

ce, and Hispanic Chambers of Commerce

sible for the creation and achievement of goals 

 • Supporting the communities where Vistra has ope-
rations, through the National Urban League and its 

affiliates in Chicago, Cincinnati, Columbus, Houston,  

St. Louis, Pittsburgh, and Philadelphia

and  deliverables  designed  to  address  culture, 

retention,  recruitment,  and  community  im-

pact. The CDO also sponsors the DEI Advisory 
Council, spearheads the development of multi-

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report21

<< Table of Contents

ple pathways for advancement, partners with 

velop  and  advance  meaningful  relationships 

various  stakeholders  across  the  organization 

in the communities in which we operate, and 

to develop training and enhance recruitment 

reports progress and metrics to senior leaders-

efforts, works with external stakeholders to de-

hip and the board of directors.

Powering a Better Way Forward Expand external recruiting ef-

forts through new relationships with Historically Black Colleges 

and Universities

Ensure diverse candidate pools by requiring diverse candidate 

slates and training managers on benefits of creating a diverse 

team, including hiring conferences with managers prior to each 

Hiring / Advancement

offer to review candidate and selection process

Develop multiple pathways to career advancement through 

redefining all job descriptions to remove degree requirements 

unless truly needed, prioritizing internal candidates, providing 

skills training, and updating the recruiting process

Review of policies to identify and remove any unintentional  

barriers to access 

Conduct employee engagement surveys

Engagement

Create a DEI Advisory Council

Develop a mentoring program

ERGs

Expand employee resource groups with a focus on Vistra culture 

and community

Training and Tracking

Donations and  

Involvement

Complete assessment of training needs through third-party 

consultant and launch training for employees and leadership

Develop metrics to track progress of programs; reporting regu-

larly to senior management and the board of directors

Continue to develop opportunities for contributions through the 

5-year, $10 million commitment; including multi-year commit-

ments and targeted annual contributions

Continue work in communities through all existing programs 

and expand through employee resource groups and new rela-

tionships

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report22

<< Table of Contents

Already in 2021, Vistra launched a formal men-

toring  program  (discussed  in  “Training  and 

GOVERNANCE OF DEI
Vistra  took  many  actions  in  2020  to  enhance 

Development”  below)  and  the  DEI  Advisory 

the governance framework around DEI:

Council.  The  DEIAC  consists  of  employees 

from  across  the  organization’s  geographies, 

BOARD OVERSIGHT: Vistra enhanced the board of 

representing a wide range of diverse commu-

director’s oversight of DEI through the expansion of the 

nities  and  seniority.  A  unique  element  of  the 

responsibility of the former Compensation Committee 

council is the Generation Subcommittee. This 

in October 2020 to create the Social Responsibility 

and Compensation Committee, responsible for social 

responsibility initiatives, including talent manage-

ment, compensation, DEI, and culture and community 

involvement.

CORPORATE POLICY: In the summer of 2020, Vistra 

adopted a stand-alone Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion  

Policy that documents Vistra’s philosophy regarding 

the importance of promoting DEI in the workplace as 

well as our commitment to core principles of integrity, 

compliance, and respect. The policy, which can be 

found on our website, is written for employees, though 

Vistra expects suppliers, contractors, consultants, and 

others temporarily assigned to perform work or servi-

ces for Vistra to similarly follow this policy.

CHIEF DIVERSITY OFFICER: As described above, Vistra 

appointed a CDO to plan and direct the strategy and 

implementation of Vistra’s DEI programs. The CDO 

As Vistra continues to promote 

and maintain an environment 

that fosters creativity, productivity, 

and mutual respect, the 

subcommittee is designed to ensure that Vis-

will also influence culture change, counsel leaders on 

tra’s  DEI  programs  reach  all  employees,  and 

DEI matters, and serve as an advisor to effect lasting 

that  the  unique  issues  and  points  of  view  of 

improvements. The CDO reports to the CAO, who 

company’s DEI Advisory Council 

diverse employees at our power plants have a 

provides prepared progress reports on DEI initiatives to 

becomes a voice to help recognize 

voice. The subcommittee meets regularly with 

the Social Responsibility and Compensation Commi-

and use the value that each 

individual brings to the workplace.

the  regional  leadership  team,  and  the  DEIAC 

ttee of the board of directors on a quarterly basis. The 

meets regularly with the Vistra executive com-

CDO also meets with the CEO on a bi-monthly basis to 

mittee to share progress and ideas.

discuss DEI matters.

Lastly, Vistra conducted an employee engage-

ADVISORY COUNCIL: The DEIAC was established in 

ment  survey  in  2020  administered  by  Gallup. 

October of 2020 and charged with providing feedback 

All  employees  were  asked  to  participate  in 

to the Executive Committee, participating in DEI pro-

the 20-question survey to provide quick, con-

grams, leading the development and management of 

venient,  and  confidential  feedback  on  Vistra. 

the employee resource groups, and making further re-

With  over  79%  of  employees  completing  the 

commendations regarding DEI programs and training. 

survey,  Vistra  used  this  feedback  to  identi-

There are currently 28 individuals representing a cross 

fy  corporate-level  action  plans  in  response  to 

section of the organization who serve on the council 

the results, many of which are outlined above 

and meet at a minimum six times through the year.

in  the  DEI  initiatives.  The  survey  results  have 

been communicated to all employees through 

leadership  meetings,  and  department-level 

action plans are being created in 2021.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report23

<< Table of Contents

WORKFORCE DIVERSITY

77%

63%

44%

93%

23%

37%

56%

7%

Gender by 
Business 
Unit

Female Male

5%

1%1%

2% 2%

1% 4%

6%

6%

6%

10%

17%

10%

22%

10%

Ethnic Diversity 
by Business 
Unit

11%

22%

85%

44%

57%

72%

White
Hispanic
American Indian
Two or More Races
4

Black
Asian
Hawaiian or Pacific Islander
Unknown

WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
Diversity  at  Vistra  includes  all  the  ways  we 

differ — such  as  age,  gender,  ethnicity,  and 

fact, there are nearly 400 veterans, guardsmen, 

and reservists in the Vistra family, and we salu-

te  them  for  their  service.  Vistra  partners  with 

Skillbridge  to  provide  internships  to  service-

men and women preparing to retire from mi-

litary service and enter the workforce. Vistra is 

proud to partner with numerous veterans and 

military support organizations, including Carry 

the  Load,  Fisher  House  Foundation,  and  the 

United Service Organization, among others. 

EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Vistra is determined to unlock the full poten-

tial of our people — and our company — throu-

gh  our  DEI  efforts,  including,  and  especially 

through,  our  employee  resource  groups.  Vis-

tra  already  had  several  established  ERGs,  but 

5

with  the  establishment  of  Vistra’s  DEIAC,  the 

opportunity  to  expand  the  company’s  list 

of  ERGs  began.  Seven  new  ERGs  have  been 

approved since January 2021.

physical appearance, as well as underlying di-

LEGACY ERGs:

fferences such as thoughts, styles, nationality, 

Opportunities  for  Professional  Enrichment  and  Ne-

education,  disabilities,  and  numerous  other 

tworking  (OPEN):  The  mission  of  OPEN  is  to  provide 

factors.  Vistra’s  diversity  is  evolving.  Currently 

a  diverse  environment  where  all  participants  have  the 

three  of  the  10  board  members  are  women, 

opportunity to network with other professionals and lea-

and  two  of  the  10  board  members  are  ethni-

ders across the organization, enhance their professional 

cally  diverse.  Nearly  half  of  the  CEO’s  direct 

advancement potential through mentoring and educa-

reports and close to 40% of the Management 

tion, and empower themselves to succeed.

Committee are women, with over 10% diverse 

members  of  the  Management  Committee. 

Women’s Information Network (WIN): WIN inspires the 

Overall,  28%  of  the  company’s  workforce  is 

women of Vistra to develop personally and professiona-

ethnically  diverse  and  women  represent  23% 

lly, reach their fullest leadership potential, and be cham-

of the overall workforce, an increase of 4% and 

pions within the community.

3%, respectively, from 2019. We provide further 

breakouts  of  our  gender  and  ethnicity  distri-

Parents at Work (PAW): PAW is dedicated as the go-to 

bution in the GRI Index in the appendix.

resource for Vistra working parents.

VETERAN AND MILITARY  
SUPPORT
Vistra has a legacy of hiring veterans and provi-

Vistra Veterans: Vistra Veterans aims to connect and su-

pport the veteran population across the company.

Toastmasters:  The  Vistra  chapter  helps  employees  de-

ding strategic support to our servicemen and 

velop leadership and communication skills within a su-

women.  The  U.S.  military  employs  a  diverse, 

pportive  and  safe  learning  environment,  ensuring  our 

skilled  workforce,  and  we  consider  veterans  a 

members grow their self-confidence and speaking skills.

tremendous  asset  to  the  company’s  team.  In 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report24

<< Table of Contents

Vistra’s seven new employee 

resource groups join the existing 

active ERGs within the company,   

continuing our focused and 

committed effort to assure all our 

employees know they are valued 

and have a path to help them 

achieve their career aspirations.

NEW ERGs: 

in  power,  and  information  on  upcoming  projects  that 

American Association of Blacks in Energy (AABE): This 

may  present  future  job  opportunities,  while  also  provi-

ERG will serve as the Dallas-Fort Worth  Chapter of the 

ding  cross-training  with  corporate  roles  in  addition  to 

national  AABE  organization.  The  DFW  AABE  Chapter 

providing a pathway to develop a stronger relationship  

will  be  open  to  all  Vistra  employees  (regardless  of  lo-

between the power plants and the corporate office. 

cation)  and  other  non-Vistra  professionals  in  the  DFW 

Metroplex  in  all  energy  and  energy-related  disciplines 

Disruptive  Innovation  and  Sustainability  (DIAS):  The 

(oil,  gas,  electricity,  nuclear,  renewables,  government, 

technology, energy services, and water). The key objec-

tives include providing powerful connections, energetic 

exchanges,  and  thought-provoking  sessions  geared 

towards  energy  professionals;  encouraging  and  enga-

ging high school and college students at accredited ins-

titutions to pursue careers in the energy industry; provi-

ding scholarships to minority students pursuing higher 

education in STEM and other energy-related fields; part-

nering with local community partners where synergies 

exist; growing the DFW Chapter beyond Vistra to inclu-

de other corporations and members that are also in the 

energy industry; and creating professional development 

opportunities for professionals in the energy industry.

Asian  American  Association:  The  Asian  American  As-

sociation will share Asian cultural heritage and raise cul-

tural  awareness,  improve  advocacy,  and  create  oppor-

tunities  for  career  advancement  of  individuals  of  Asian 

purpose of DIAS is to provide a forum for all interested 

employees  to  come  together  and  discuss,  share  ideas, 

and  learn  from  each  other  about  various  disruptive  in-

novations happening around the world.

ePride: The LGBTQ+ ERG will foster a diverse, inclusive 

workplace aligned with Vistra’s organizational purpose, 

core principles, goals, business practices, and objectives. 

ePride hopes to develop future leaders, increase emplo-

yee engagement, and expand the success of Vistra.

Hispanic/Latino  Organization  and  Leadership  Awa-

reness (HOLA): The purpose of HOLA is to support the 

professional  development  and  advancement  of  Hispa-

nic/Latino employees of Vistra, provide employees with 

unique  opportunities  to  participate  in  the  local  Hispa-

nic/Latino community through outreach and education, 

and operate as an inclusive platform from which all Vis-

descent  across  Vistra,  and  support  the  inclusion  and 

tra employees will benefit.

success of our diverse workforce.

Vistrability: Vistrability provides people working with a 

Bridging the Gap (BTG): BTG will help “Bridge the Gap” 

disability a forum to discuss and share experiences, ser-

for  younger  or  transitioning  workers  as  Vistra  moves 

ve as a resource for company inclusion policies, enhance 

toward  announced  power  plant  retirements  and  the 

outreach to disabled communities to encourage work-

transformation  of  the  way  we  produce  our  power.  Key 

force participation, and mentor those that are trying to 

objectives  of  BTG  will  be  to  provide  opportunities  for 

maximize their independence while remaining active in 

structured  training,  conferences  on  new  technology 

their workplace and community.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report25

<< Table of Contents

Vistra’s Essentials of Leadership 

is a five-month intensive 

program that combines large 

and small group learning, as 

well as networking and training 

facilitated by Vistra leadership. 

Training and 
Development

We believe the development of employees at 

continue to support one another and stay con-

all levels is critical to Vistra’s current and futu-

nected to their team coach even after the pro-

re  success.  The  organizational  development 

gram is completed.

team  completely  revamped  our  leadership 

development training in 2020 to adapt to the 

Vistra  also  provides  many  other  training  and 

pandemic, providing online and virtual leader-

development  programs  to  help  grow  and  de-

ship  training  to  256  participants  and  utilizing 

velop employees at every level, including online 

45  leaders  to  facilitate  different  training  cour-

learning  platform  courses,  learning  manage-

ses throughout the year.

ment  system  courses,  recorded  webinars  and 

presentations,  self-paced  development,  and 

employee-specific  skill  training.  Thousands  of 

web-based targeted courses are available to all 

employees, and in 2020 employees collectively 

spent 500 hours completing 900 courses.

Vistra further supports employees in comple-

ting  thousands  of  professional  training  hours 

to  support  requirements  for  their  respective 

professional  licenses,  including  accounting, 

legal,  and  nuclear.  Across  these  teams,  Vistra 

annually  supports  more  than  160  employees 

completing  over  14,500  hours  of  professional 

training.

MENTORING PROGRAM
Vistra’s  organizational  development  team 

launched  a  new  mentoring  program  in  ear-

ly  2021  that  is  open  to  all  Vistra  employees  at 

any stage in their career and in all areas of the 

business.  The  program  hopes  to  support  and 

Vistra’s Essentials of Leadership program pro-

strengthen employees’ leadership and profes-

vides first-time managers with skills to lead or-

sional skills, provide networking opportunities, 

ganizations in situational leadership, business 

cultivate  and  expand  employees’  professional 

acumen, 

identification  of  communication 

learning  circles,  and  serve  as  another  path 

styles,  and  inclusive  communication  practi-

towards mutual understanding and apprecia-

ces  and  exposes  them  to  best  practices  from 

tion of cultures and diverse communities. The 

across  the  company.  These  new  managers 

mentoring  program  is  expected  to  have  two 

are  paired  with  coaches  from  the  company’s 

cohorts  a  year,  with  each  program  lasting  12 

director level to guide them through case stu-

months. The implementation and tools of the 

dies and provide support as needed. Managers 

program are provided by a third-party vendor. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report26

<< Table of Contents

EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE  
PROGRAM 
Vistra  has  always  encouraged  employees  to 

where  employees  and  managers  mutually 

create an ongoing plan for the professional de-

velopment  of  each  employee,  taking  into  ac-

pursue  continued  learning  through  our  edu-

count  each  employee’s  long-  and  short-term 

cational  assistance  program.  All  employees 

objectives for career development. 

who  have  completed  a  minimum  of  90  days 

of  active,  continuous  service  and  meet  per-

The  calendar  of  the  performance  review  pro-

formance  requirements  are  eligible  to  seek 

cess is as follows: 

assistance  of  up  to  $10,000  in  educational 

assistance  annually.  Upon  hearing  feedback 

from  employees  in  2020,  Vistra  updated  the 

policy  to  pay  employees  upfront  versus  after 

the  completion  of  their  course  so  employees 

 • March-May: Set objectives that align with the annual 
corporate objectives, which include ESG initiatives
 • Throughout the year: Employee/Manager Check-ins 
 • September-October: 9-box succession planning work 

will not be out of pocket for coursework during 

and sessions

the  applicable  period.  Vistra  also  streamlined 

the approval process to ensure consistent and 

easy  access  to  the  program.  In  2020,  135  em-

 • November: Employee completes self-assessment
 • December: Final performance ratings due
 • February-March: Year-end performance review con-

ployees participated in the program for a total 

versations are held and potential merit/bonus awards 

of ~$685,000 reimbursed. 

are discussed

PERFORMANCE REVIEW  

PROGRAM 

The goal of Vistra’s performance management 

As  part  of  the  performance  review  program, 

Vistra  annually  conducts  a  robust  9-Box  pro-

cess for directors and above, where more than 

500 employees are assessed for promotability 

process is to guide the development of indivi-

and  performance.  Part  of  the  9-Box  process 

duals and to help to continuously improve the 

includes performing detailed succession plan-

results of the business. All full-time employees, 

ning,  which  identifies  employees  from  across 

other  than  those  in  a  collective  bargaining 

the organization who could develop into other 

unit,  receive  a  formal  performance  review.  As 

roles within a five-year period. Subsequent de-

part of the program, employees set objectives, 

velopment plans are created and play a critical 

have  check-ins  and  ongoing  dialogues  with 

role in developing a diverse pipeline of leaders. 

their  manager,  and  receive  a  final  year-end 

In 2021, Vistra will expand the 9-Box process to 

performance  review.  In  2020,  Vistra  added  a 

include all managers to identify and develop a 

new  section  to  the  year-end  review  process 

larger diverse pool of leaders and talent.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report27

<< Table of Contents

Employee 
Benefits

Maintaining  attractive  benefits  and  pay 

coverage.  Regular,  full-time  employees  are 

are  important  for  recruiting  and  retaining 

eligible  for  short-term  disability  benefits,  and 

talent.  Vistra  is  committed  to  maintaining  an 

all  employees  are  eligible  for  the  employee 

equitable  compensation  structure,  including 

assistance program, parental leave, maternity 

performing  pay  equity  reviews  by  employee 

leave, and the 401(k) plan. All new employees 

category  level  within  significant  locations  of 

are  automatically  enrolled  into  Vistra’s  401(k) 

operations. 

plan at 3% of base pay contribution, and Vistra 

will  match  employees’  contributions  up  to 

Full-time  Vistra  employees  and  part-time 

6%. While director-level employees and above 

Vistra  employees  working  a  minimum  of  20 

receive  long-term  compensation  in  the  form 

of  equity  grants  with  a  three-year  vesting, 

employees below director level are eligible for 

Vistra’s  deferred  profit  sharing  plan,  in  which 

an  annual  award  based  on  a  percentage  of 

the employee’s base salary is determined each 

year  based  on  company  performance.  The 

award is earned and paid to the employee at 

the conclusion of a three-year retention period.

Vistra offers paid time off benefits to all regular, 

full-time, and part-time employees. Employees 

accrue PTO each calendar year based on their 

length  of  service  at  Vistra.  With  COVID-19 

restricting  travel  and  requiring  employees  to 

stay-at-home  during  the  year,  Vistra  created 

a  one-time  exception  in  2020  to  increase 

the  portion  of  PTO  employees  are  allowed 

to  rollover  into  2021.  In  addition  to  the  PTO 

program,  Vistra  has  maternity  and  paternity 

leave  policies  for  new  parents  to  take  time 

off.  The  maternity  leave  policy  entitles  birth 

To encourage the health and 

productivity of our employees and 

their families while managing 

future health plan costs, Vistra 

offers a competitive benefits 

package, and maintains high 

employee satisfaction.

hours per week are provided the opportunity 

mothers  12  weeks  of  paid  maternity  leave, 

to enroll in medical, prescription drug, dental, 

while the parental leave policy for fathers, non-

vision, 

life 

insurance,  accidental  death  & 

birth  parents,  and  adoptive  or  foster  parents 

dismemberment,  and 

long-term  disability 

provides two paid weeks.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report28

<< Table of Contents

Health  
and Safety

In 2020, an unexpected objective became our 

In  2020,  we  continued  to  enhance  our  Best 

most  important  one:  responding  to  a  pan-

Defense  safety  program  with  the  rollout  of  a 

demic  and  keeping  our  employees  and  con-

new Safety Management System. Vistra’s SMS 

tractors  healthy  and  safe.  Vistra’s  generation 

is the core guidance document that discloses 

teams adapted quickly to new protocols so the 

our  systematic  approach  for  identifying,  eva-

company could continue to provide an essen-

luating,  analyzing,  and  controlling  workplace 

tial service — electricity — while also keeping a 

safety and health hazards to ensure we reach 

laser focus on safety. 

BEST DEFENSE
Vistra’s  mindset  around  safety  is  exemplified 

our goal of establishing the Best Defenses. The 

elements  and  expectations  outlined  throu-

ghout  the  SMS  apply  to  all  of  Vistra’s  opera-

tions, which includes the corporate, power ge-

by  our  motto:  Best  Defense.  Everyone  wins. 

neration, and retail businesses. 

No  one  gets  hurt.  Our  safety  culture  revolves 

around  people  and  human  performance.  We 

place high importance on continuous impro-

SAFETY STATISTICS
Our  focus  on  reducing  the  severity  of  injuries 

vement, along with a keen focus on numerous 

for  both  our  employees  and  the  contractors 

learning and error-prevention tools. To facilita-

who  work  with  us  has  shown  positive  results. 

te  a  learning  environment,  our  various  power 

In 2020, our Vistra employees did not have any 

plants share their investigations and learnings 

serious  injuries  or  fatalities.  Although  we  do 

of all safety events with all operations emplo-

not focus on recordable incidents as we prefer 

yees  on  weekly  calls.  The  information  is  pre-

to encourage near-miss reporting to promote 

sented by front-line employees and supported 

a learning environment, our Total Recordable 

by management. The lessons from each event 

Incident Rate  for the company was 0.61, bet-

are  shared  across  the  fleet  to  prevent  similar 

ter than the first quartile as compared to the 

incidents at other locations. 

Edison  Electric  Institute  2019  Total  Company 

Injury data. 

All  personnel  at  Vistra  locations  are  encoura-

ged  to  be  actively  involved  in  the  safety  pro-

cess.  Managers  are  required  to  participate 

SAFETY TRAINING
We  believe  safety  training  is  most  effective 

in  safety  engagements  with  staff  to  enable 

when  it  is  incorporated  into  standard  opera-

constant communication and sustained inte-

ting  procedures,  workplace  practices,  and  in-

raction.  The  corporate  safety  team  develops 

dividual  job  performance  requirements.  We 

and distributes monthly safety information to 

structure  employee  development  and  lear-

all  operations  staff  and  regularly  posts  infor-

ning so that our employees have the knowle-

mation  on  Vistra’s  internal  website.  In  2020, 

dge and skills needed to do their work safely, 

our plant safety leaders performed more than 

avoid creating hazards that could place them-

57,000  proactive  safety  engagements  across 

selves  or  others  at  risk,  and  ensure  that  each 

the  fleet—in-the-field  touch  points  from  our 

employee knows how to put up best defenses 

leadership teams that helped promote emplo-

for job assignments. We strive to provide rele-

yee engagement. Internal and external audits 

vant, creative safety training content that con-

are also performed as part of normal business 

tributes to the continuous improvement of the 

to  verify  compliance  with  internal  and  OSHA 

overall safety management system. 

procedures and guidance. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report29

<< Table of Contents

All  Vistra  employees  are  covered  by  our  safe-

applications in 2020 and are awaiting review by 

ty  program.  Office  employees  are  required  to 

OSHA.  VPP  Star  status  is  the  highest  designa-

complete  periodic  training  on  safety  topics 

tion  of  its  Voluntary  Protection  Programs.  The 

through  our  online 

learning  management 

achievement  is  an  honorable  recognition  for 

system.  Power  plant  employees  are  required 

employers  and  workers  who  have  implemen-

to  complete  trainings  based  on  job  function, 

ted  effective  safety  and  health  management 

which is also tracked through our central lear-

systems  and  maintain  injury  and  illness  rates 

ning  management  system.  For  2020,  more 

below  national  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics  ave-

than  41,600  safety  training  courses  were  com-

rages for their respective industries. These sites 

pleted  by  our  employees  through  both  com-

are self-sufficient in their ability to control wor-

puter-based and instructor-led sessions. Due to 

kplace hazards and are reevaluated every three 

COVID-19, the majority of the training sessions 

to five years. Additionally, 23 of our power plants 

in  2020  were  conducted  by  computer-based 

and  mine  locations  have  adopted  a  proactive 

methods. 

SAFETY OF OUR CONTRAC-
TORS AND VENDORS
Vistra  engages  an  independent  third-party 

behavior based safety approach, which focuses 

on  identifying  and  providing  feedback  on  at-

risk behaviors observed.

Our surface coal mines also prioritize safety. In 

conformity  assessment  and  certification  ven-

2020,  the  National  Mining  Association  recog-

dor  to  manage  adherence  to  our  safety  stan-

nized  our  Kosse  Mine  employees  by  awarding 

dards for all vendors and contractors who work 

them  the  Sentinels  of  Safety  Award,  which  is 

at our plants. In addition, we work closely with 

the  second  time  Kosse  Mine  has  received  this 

our  suppliers  and  contractors  to  ensure  our 

award.

safety practices are upheld. ~2,000 contractors 

are connected to us via our third-party system 

and  meet  our  minimum  safety  requirements. 

WELLNESS 
We believe a healthy workforce leads to greater 

Through  this  contractor  selection  process,  we 

well-being  at  work  and  at  home.  Our  health-

ensure the contractors on our sites score better 

care  plans  are  designed  to  reward  employees 

than the industry average for overall safety pro-

for getting annual physicals and cancer scree-

grams and injury rates. In 2020, the average re-

nings. Fitness centers in multiple facilities offer 

ported TRIR of our contractors was less than 0.9.

cardio  equipment,  a  selection  of  free  weights, 

OSHA’S VOLUNTARY  
PROTECTION PROGRAM
Twelve power plants in Vistra’s generation fleet 

and exercise mats. Our employee-led wellness 

team engages our people to get active and su-

pport causes that promote healthy living. With 

support from the company, the wellness team 

have earned the Voluntary Protection Program 

covers  the  registration  costs  for  employees 

Star designation by OSHA for superior demons-

to  participate  in  more  than  a  dozen  running 

CENTERS OF 
EXCELLENCE

Vistra has organized Centers 

of Excellence, which consists 

of a cross-functional team of 

stakeholders committed to the 

development, sustainability, 

optimization, and improvement 

of best practices, processes, 

standards, and procedures for key 

functional areas within our fossil 

generation fleet. 

The mission of our Hazard Man-

agement Center of Excellence 

(HM COE) is to provide standards 

that clearly state the company’s 

expectations to manage the haz-

ards associated with our industry 

and to protect our employees 

and the public. Vistra has created 

sub-teams under the guidance of 

the HM COE for specific haz-

ardous processes at its facilities, 

including: arc flash, boiler and 

machinery, combustible dust, fire 

protection, and highly hazard-

ous chemicals (PSM/anhydrous 

ammonia, hydrogen, natural gas, 

etc.). These teams are responsible 

for developing and maintaining 

programs for their respective haz-

ard across the fleet. The standards 

created will provide a consistent 

approach for all sites and facilitate 

tration  of  effective  safety  and  health  manage-

events  each  year.  Additionally,  the  team  hosts 

the sharing of best practices. 

The standards offer guidance for 

assessments and audits for each 

program, maintenance metrics, 

and team member requirements. 

Quarterly reports on the standards 

are provided to the Executive 

Oversight Committee.

ment  systems  and  for  maintaining  injury  and 

quarterly blood drives and recruits participants 

illness  rates  below  the  national  averages  for 

for our cycling and soccer teams.

our  industry.  Two  additional  plants  submitted 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report30

<< Table of Contents

Cybersecurity

GOVERNANCE
Vistra and its board of directors recognize the 

important  operational  and  social  responsi-

bility  to  protect  our  customers’,  employees’, 

and partners’ online and offline data. To more 

risk assessment outcomes to the board. Vistra 

measures  its  cybersecurity  capability  levels 

through  various  industry  metrics  such  as  the 

National Institute of Standards and Technology 

maturity score.

effectively prevent, detect, and respond to in-

In  March  of  2020,  Vistra’s  corporate  and  re-

formation  security  threats,  Vistra  has  a  dedi-

tail  employees  began  working  from  home 

cated chief information security officer whose 

in  response  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  The 

team  is  responsible  for  leading  enterprise-wi-

de  information  security  strategy,  policy,  stan-

company  established  a  zero-trust  networ-
king  model  to  protect  employees  and  their 

dards,  architecture,  and  processes.  The  board 

information  security  systems  within  their  ad-

regularly  receives  reports  on  Vistra’s  cyberse-

justed workplace environments. The model is 

curity  risks  and  threats,  the  status  of  projects 

a  multi-factor  authentication  process,  which 

to  strengthen  Vistra’s 

information  security 

enables employees to achieve strong perime-

systems,  assessments  of  Vistra’s  security  pro-

ter  security  and  network  protection  on  their 

gram, and the emerging threat landscape. 

Further, the entire Vistra organization is com-

mitted  to  ensuring  that  strong  information 

protection practices are applied across our bu-

company-owned digital devices. As cyber and 

physical security threats evolve, Vistra is proud 

to report that there have been zero incidents 

of material data breaches. 

siness. It is core to all our brands, and we mo-

Vistra  is  a member  of  the  Electricity  Informa-

nitor  our  environment  to  ensure  compliance 

tion  Sharing  Analysis  Center,  which  provides 

with existing legal obligations to maintain our 

resources to prepare for and reduce cyber and 

trusted reputation. 

Vistra has established a Cyber Security Opera-

tions Center that is responsible for monitoring 

and  analyzing  Vistra’s  cybersecurity  posture 

on  an  ongoing  basis.  The  CSOC  responds  to 

any cybersecurity incident on Vistra’s compu-

ters, servers, or networks. 

physical  security  threats  to  the  North  Ame-

rican  electricity  industry.  Operated  by  NERC, 

the  E-ISAC  is  organizationally  isolated  from 

NERC’s  enforcement  processes.  The  E-ISAC 

delivers  services  and  products  that  offer  ti-

mely, relevant, and actionable situational awa-

reness  and  analysis  to  members,  operators, 

and  cross-sector  and  government  partners. 

PRACTICE 
Vistra  delivers  against  this  responsibility  each 

Vistra’s power plants participate in the E-ISAC 

secured portal, a hub for anonymously sharing 

day through people, processes, and technolo-

trends  and  bi-directional  information  among 

gy to continuously detect and mitigate cyber-

members, partners, E-ISAC analysts, and other 

security  risk.  This  includes  employee  training 

power generators under NERC to collect data 

for  handling  sensitive  data  and  regular  email 

and increase industry metrics. In collaboration 

phishing  campaigns;  a  comprehensive  Cyber 

with  the  Department  of  Energy,  the  Depart-

Incident Response Plan and regular third-par-

ment of Homeland Security, and the Electrici-

ty  audits;  cyber  protective  measures  such  as 

ty Subsector Coordinating Council, the E-ISAC 

multi-factor  authentication,  anti-virus  protec-

serves  as  a  trusted  leader  and  security  infor-

tion,  and  continuous  system  monitoring.  The 

mation resource within the electricity industry.

company’s  internal  phishing  campaign  tests 

employees  24  times  per  year  (two  times  per 

month).  This  practice  is  above  industry  stan-

dards,  leading  to  increased  awareness  of  sus-

picious  cyber  activity.  Additionally,  Vistra  per-
forms  and  reports  both  internal  and  external 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report31

<< Table of Contents

Facilities

As a measure to protect employees during the 

work locations and operating schedules, when 

COVID-19  pandemic,  Vistra  instituted  a  work-

and where appropriate. In fulfilling their duties, 

from-home policy for all employees with remo-

the PAT conducted insightful surveys to get a 

te-work capabilities. To help employees adjust 

sense of employee sentiment on the ongoing 

to  a  new  work  environment,  Vistra  provided 

situation.  These  surveys  provided  employee 

employees  an  opportunity  to  request  various 

feedback  on  topics,  including  return-to-work 

office equipment such as chairs and standing 

timing  and  vaccine  policies.  The  PAT  and  the 

desks,  as  well  as  computer  accessories.  As  di-

Vistra safety team also shared the responsibility 

fferent  spaces  in  employees’  houses  became 

to consistently remind employees of CDC gui-

their  new  office,  Vistra  created  an  engage-

delines, company protocols, and vaccine infor-

ment effort encouraging employees to send in 

mation. The PAT will be tasked with helping the 

photographs  of  their  new  work  environment, 

Vistra team return to work safely when the Exe-

along with any “helpers”, to be showcased du-

cutive Committee determines it is appropriate 

ring  one  of  the  weekly  town  hall  livestreams, 

to do so, hopefully sometime in 2021.

reiterating that no matter where we work we 

are still One Team.

In April of 2020, Vistra established the Planning 

GREEN INITIATIVES
The Vistra facilities & real estate services teams 

Ahead Team (PAT) — a group that included lea-

are committed to sustainability and the impact 

ders  from  all  parts  of  the  company — to  focus 

that our business has on the environment. Vis-

on  developing  thoughtful  actions  we  could 

tra’s corporate headquarters, located in Irving, 

take to assist our team members to be as pro-

Texas, has received the EPA’s prestigious Ener-

ductive  as  possible  in  the  volatile  COVID-19 

gy Star recognition for the past decade, and a 

work environment and a path forward to safely 

handful  of  our  regional  offices  have  received 

enable Vistra employees to return to standard 

the honor as well (see below).

Location

Energy Star

LEED

BOMA  
360*

IREM  
CSP**

Energy Plaza  
(Dallas, TX)

Mesquite Data Center 
(Mesquite, TX)

2008-20

2010 — LEED Gold for Existing Buildings

2012-21

2014

2011-20

2013 — LEED Silver for Existing Buildings

2015-21

CFB (Irving, TX)

2011-20

Sierra (headquarters)  
(Irving, TX)

2019-20

2009 — LEED for  
Commercial Interiors

2015-21

2015-21

312 Walnut St.  
(Cincinnati, OH)

Liberty Place  
(Washington, D.C.)

2011-20

2017 — LEED Gold for Existing Buildings

2012-20

2016 — LEED Gold for Existing Buildings

2603 Augusta Dr.  
(Houston, TX)

2009-20

*The BOMA 360 Performance Program takes a holistic approach to evaluating building operations and management and benchmarks a building’s performance against industry standards, 
recognizing commercial properties that demonstrate best practices. The award takes into consideration a property’s sustainability initiatives, safety/security/risk management, training and 
education of building personnel, energy management, tenant relations, and community involvement. 

**The IREM CSP (Certified Sustainable Property) is a certification through the Institute for Real Estate Management and is awarded to high-performing, efficient properties. Like LEED, 
properties must meet baseline requirements and earn points in categories such as energy, water, health, recycling, and purchasing. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report32

<< Table of Contents

EV charging stations are 

available for employees at Vistra’s 

headquarters and other locations.

As  a  steward  of  environmental  conservation 

are  provided  with  deskside  recycling  con-

efforts, Vistra has implemented procedures at 

tainers  for  comingled  recyclables,  including 

its  headquarters  to  reduce  power  consump-

paper,  plastic,  glass,  and  aluminum.  In  2020, 

tion when power is at its peak demand. If ca-

Vistra  maintained  its  recycling  program  at  its 

lled  upon  for  demand  response  purposes  by 

facilities  for  those  that  continued  to  report  to 

ERCOT,  our  headquarters  can  contribute  700 

the office. We recycled 17 tons of waste throu-

kW back to the grid when supply is limited. In 

gh our desk-side recycling program and shre-

addition, in our Dallas-area corporate facilities, 

dded nearly 221 tons of paper collected in se-

Vistra utilizes building automation systems to 

cured bins. 

optimize start/stop times of HVAC equipment 

to  reduce  energy  consumption  while  main-

taining  thermal  comfort  requirements.  LED 

lights and occupancy sensors, to shut off ligh-

ting and HVAC when areas of the building are 

unoccupied,  are  used  in  various  areas  of  the 

buildings and parking garages. 

DESKSIDE RECYCLING  
PROGRAMS
Recycling  is  an  easy  sustainable  practice  that 

Vistra facilitates for our employees. Employees 

 VEHICLE FLEET
The electrification and use of alternative fuels 

for vehicles is an evolving development world-

wide.  Within  Vistra’s  own  fleet  of  vehicles,  we 

look for opportunities to reduce our number of 

vehicles,  transition  to  electrification,  and  ma-

nage  fuel  consumption.  Electric  vehicle  char-

ging  stations  are  available  for  use  at  Vistra’s 

headquarters  and  other  locations  for  emplo-

yees, contractors, and visitors.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability ReportPowering 
Customers, 
Communities,
and Suppliers

VISTRA’S RETAIL PRESENCE EXTENDS TO 19 STATES 

and the District of Columbia, plus Canada and Japan. 

Through our 13 individual retail brands and various 

marketing channels, we balance the needs and 

preferences of our customers through a vast portfolio of 

products and services which include numerous green 

energy and conservation-focused electricity plans.

Our presence extends into the communities where 

we do business, where our valued employees live, and 

where our plants call home. We are committed to 

strengthening these communities and addressing their 

needs through meaningful investments. Further, our 

valued supplier partnerships enhance the economic 

development of communities, and we welcome 

suppliers that can align and aid us in being good 

stewards of the environment and our society.

34

Vistra Corp • 2020 Sustainability Report

<< Table of Contents

Renewable  
Product Offerings

In Texas, Vistra’s flagship retail brand TXU Ener-

enrolled  in  TXU  Energy  solar  plans  than  own 

gy has been a leader in offering its residential 

rooftop  solar  panels  in  the  competitive  Texas 

customers  renewable  products,  as  outlined 

market.

below.  As  of  2020,  twice  as  many  Texans  are 

TXU ENERGY FREE NIGHTS & SOLAR DAYSSM

TXU ENERGY TEXAS CHOICESM

100% wind power at night and 100% solar during the day

Offers 25% renewable energy and customers earn 3% cash-
back loyalty rewards on their annual electricity spend

TXU ENERGY ROOFTOP SOLAR

TXU ENERGY SOLAR CLUBSM

Partnership with Sunrun to offer rooftop solar panels and bat-
tery energy storage to Texas homeowners

First of-its-kind, membership-style plan gives customers clean 
energy purchased from Texas solar farms benefits similar to a 
rooftop solar array without the cost of installing a system

TXU ENERGY RENEWABLE BUYBACKSM

TXU ENERGY GREENUPSM

Pays customers for their surplus power generated by renewable 
energy equipment, like solar panels or wind turbines

We buy power and renewable energy credits from Texas wind 
farms equal to the customer’s total electricity usage

TXU ENERGY PURE SOLARSM

New in 2020 — We purchase power from Texas solar farms equal to the customer’s total electricity usage

Vistra has other retail brands that provide renewable energy plans and social-minded products:

4CHANGE ENERGY

BRIGHTEN ENERGY

AMBIT ENERGY

4Change Energy in Texas was founded 
on the idea that electricity should 
be affordable and contribute to the 
communities it serves. 4Change 
contributes 4% of its profits to the 
following Texas charities:

Serving Illinois, Ohio, and Pennsylva-
nia, Brighten Energy offers renewable 
energy products to socially conscious 
consumers looking for an affordable 
way to make a difference.

 • American Cancer Society 
 • American Red Cross 
 • Feeding Texas 
 • Heroes for Children

Ambit Energy serves residential 
customers in 17 states, Canada, and 
Japan while promoting social respon-
sibility through home solar & battery 
offerings, as well as Ambit Cares — a 
program that leverages employee do-
nations and volunteer hours to fight 
domestic hunger in the communities 
it serves.

35

<< Table of Contents

LARGE BUSINESS CUSTOM  
SOLUTIONS
Vistra  Retail,  through  our  TXU  Energy,  Dynegy, 

drive  value  to  the  bottom  line.  Through  a  ro-

bust set of ongoing surveys and listening posts 

across  their  portfolio  of  brands,  insights  are 

and  Homefield  brands,  actively  partners  with 

leveraged  to  optimize  experiences  and  inno-

our  large  business  customers  to  help  them 

vate  around  customer  needs,  driving  dozens 

achieve their sustainability and energy efficiency 

of  first-to-market  product  and  service  laun-

goals.  Our  renewable  product  portfolio  (below) 

ches.  Customer  feedback  is  used  to  pursue  a 

provides options for every size and type of busi-

two-pronged approach to customer retention. 

ness, delivering competitive pricing, unmatched 

First, near real-time feedback is leveraged by a 

price and risk management capabilities, flexible 

variety  of  customer  advocacy  channels,  inclu-

terms tailored to fit the way the customer uses 

ding live-agent interactions, offline case mana-

energy, and support for sustainability reporting. 

gement, and an Office of the President team, 

From  Green-e®  Renewable  Energy  Credits  to 

which  collectively  support  our  customers 

customized solutions that utilize wind PPAs and 

through  all  phases  of  their  journey.  Second, 

utility-scale solar generation, we have the exper-

underlying insights are used to redesign expe-

tise to identify the product structures that best 

riences  that  mitigate  customer  losses.  Vistra’s 

CINCINNATI ELECTRIC 
AGGREGATION 
PROGRAM 

With the city’s sustainability goals in 

mind, Dynegy put together an inno-

vative energy solution for Cincinnati’s 

municipal aggregation program, 

enabling a first-of-its-kind contract 

that includes local solar supply while 

fit our business customers’ needs. 

customer  experience  metrics  have  proven  to 

keeping costs low for customers. Over 

the course of an eight-year municipal 

aggregation agreement with Dynegy, 

Cincinnati will draw power from a 

100 MW solar farm currently under 

CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 
Based  on  learnings  from  more  than  15  years 

vior, allowing us to quantify the impact of our 

efforts—efforts which have earned TXU Energy 

of  customer  experience  measurements  for 

a  5-star  customer  service  rating  with  the  Pu-

be highly predictive of future customer beha-

construction in Highland County, 

Vistra’s  flagship  brand,  TXU  Energy,  Vistra  Re-

blic  Utility  Commission  of  Texas,  an  A+  rating 

tail  has  established  industry-leading  metho-

from  the  Better  Business  Bureau,  and  indus-

dologies  and  results-driven  approaches  that 

try-leading customer loyalty ratings.

Ohio. Once complete, the project will 

reduce the region’s annual carbon 

emissions by 158,000 tons. In addition 

to the local solar power, Dynegy will 

also provide wind power to the City 

via renewable energy credits. This 

leading-edge contract with Dynegy 

allows Cincinnati to further enhance 

sustainability efforts through the uti-

lization of $500,000 in Dynegy Green-

Back dollars, which offset the costs 

of energy efficiency improvements. 

Additionally, throughout the contract 

term, Dynegy will donate more than 

200 trees to expand Cincinnati’s 

urban tree canopy, mitigating the 

effects of climate change. Dynegy 

will also make financial donations 

to Cincinnati programs dedicated to 

educating residents on the benefits 

of renewable energy and expanding 

science curriculum in schools.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report36
36

<< Table of Contents

Charitable Giving 
and Volunteering

Vistra  has  always  been  committed  to  suppor-

ting  our  communities;  however,  2020  was  an 

extraordinary  year  of  new  challenges  as  our 

COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND 
CAMPAIGNS
Vistra,  Luminant,  TXU  Energy,  and  other  Vistra 

teams  worked  together  to  help  meet  the  cri-

Retail  brands  have  a  legacy  of  giving  back  to 

tical  needs  of  those  we  serve  during  the  CO-

communities. Several programs and highlights 

VID-19  pandemic.  Through  our  efforts,  Vistra 

include:

and  its  employees  were  proud  to  support  nu-

merous food banks, COVID-19 relief efforts, and 

provide access to online learning for thousands 

 • CORPORATE  GIVING — In 2020, Vistra built 
upon  our  legacy  of  giving  and  donated  

of students, among other initiatives. In addition, 

~$6 million to nonprofits. In addition to the 

Vistra  reaffirmed  and  expanded  our  commit-

company’s  normal  charitable  contributions 

ment  to  DEI  through  the  support  of  national, 

of  over  $2  million  to  organizations  such  as  

state, and local organizations that grow minori-

Irving  Cares,  Peoria  Promise  scholarship 

ty-owned small businesses, enhance economic 

fund, and various Boys & Girls Clubs of Ame-

development, and provide and improve educa-

rica, Vistra also donated almost $2 million for 

tional  opportunities  for  students  from  diverse 

direct  COVID-19  relief  and  $2  million  to  su-

backgrounds. 

pport organizations focused on social justice 

and  racial  equity  initiatives  across  our  key 

Vistra holds the strong belief that corporations 

market areas.

must expand their purpose beyond just share-

holders  to  a  more  diverse  set  of  stakeholders 

and work together to be a part of the solution. 

 • ANNUAL  GIVING  CAMPAIGN — Every  year, 
we  come  together  to  support  our  neigh-

At  Vistra,  this  means  investing  in  our  emplo-

yees, putting customers first, and making a ge-

nuine  effort  to  better  the  communities  where 

we live, work, and serve. 

As referenced in Vistra’s corporate giving policy, 

the key focus areas for our community involve-

ment are:

 • Education 
 • Community Welfare
 • Environment/Sustainability
 • Employee Involvement
 • Economic Development

bors  in  need  through  our  United  Way  and 
TXU  Energy  AidSM  campaign,  our  foremost  
giving initiative. Employees and the company 

raised  more  than  $1.9  million  in  2020  and  

almost $11 million in the last six years.

 • ENERGY IN ACTION — This is a corporate-wi-
de initiative designed to support our spirit of 

volunteerism, facilitate and encourage more 

opportunities to give back to our communi-

ties,  and  recognize  employees  for  their  de-

dication to helping others. Vistra employees 

virtually  volunteered  nearly  1,000  hours  in 

the  communities  where  we  live  and  work, 

engaging over 250 employees. 

Vistra’s  community  affairs  team  leverages  va-

rious  company  programs  to  promote  sales 

efforts,  serve  as  a  liaison  with  key  opinion  lea-

 • TXU  ENERGY  AIDSM  — TXU  Energy,  Vistra’s 
flagship retail brand in Texas, has one of the 

ders, assist with various community issues, and 

most  extensive  utility  and  energy  assistan-

address  critical  community  needs.  The  team 

also helps manage relationships with local bu-

siness leaders and elected officials.

ce  programs  in  the  nation.  For  more  than 
35 years, TXU Energy AidSM has helped Texas 
families in need keep their homes powered 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report37

<< Table of Contents

ning opportunities, Vistra proudly partnered 

with Comp-U-Dopt to help bridge the digital 

divide  during  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  The 

company’s $230,000 total donation provided 

more  than  2,000  refurbished,  free-of-char-

ge laptops for students without a computer 

in  underserved  communities  across  Dallas, 

Fort Worth, and Chicago. 

 • BEAT  THE  HEAT — TXU  Energy  launched 
its  22nd  annual  Beat  the  Heat  program  in 

summer  2020,  where  it  partnered  with  va-

rious social service agencies to promote heat 

safety  awareness  and  provide  cooling  fans 

and  air-conditioning  units  during  the  hot 

summer  months.  With  social  distancing  in 

mind, the 2020 program included drive-thru 

distributions  of  new  air-conditioning  units 

and  fans,  education  on  heat  safety  aware-

ness, energy conservation tips, and informa-

tion  on  financial  assistance  for  customers. 

Vistra’s $230,000 donation 

provided more than 2,000 

refurbished, free-of-charge 

laptops for students without a 

computer through a partnership 

with Comp-U-Dopt.

and  safe.  Through  the  support  of  our  em-

TXU  Energy’s  $100,000  contribution  directly 

ployees,  customers,  and  other  donors,  TXU 
Energy AidSM helps an average of 20,000 cus-
tomers each year with bill-payment assistan-

ce, supporting social service agency partners 
across  Texas.  TXU  Energy  AidSM  provided  $4 
million in funds to ~80 partner agencies, as-

sisting  nearly  16,000  TXU  Energy  customers 

in 2020. 

supported  social  service  organizations  such 

as The Senior Source in Dallas and BakerRi-

pley in Houston, among others. 

 • HUNGER  ACTION  MONTH — Vistra  and  its 
family  of  companies  were  proud  to  support 

Feeding  America’s  Hunger  Action  Month 

in  September  2020.  With  millions  of  people 

facing  increased  food  insecurity  due  to  the 

 • AMBIT  CARES — The  COVID-19  pandemic 
greatly  increased  the  number  of  food-inse-

pandemic, Vistra and its employees provided 

a  helping  hand  through  various  corporate 

cure  people  in  America,  and  Ambit  Cares 
remained  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to 

donations  and  volunteer  efforts.  In  total,  the 
company  donated  more  than  $250,000  to 

serving  our  neighbors  who  struggle  with 

food  banks  in  the  communities  we  serve  to 

hunger. As a Supporting Partner of Feeding 

support those impacted by the pandemic. 

America®,  the  nation’s 

largest  organiza-

tion dedicated to fighting domestic hunger 

through a network of food banks, Ambit Ca-

res  makes  great  strides  to  change  the  lives 

of those who face hunger. Ambit Cares more 

than  doubled  their  contributions  from  2019 

and broke previous donation records, collec-

ting and donating more than $300,000 in to-

tal contributions to support various Feeding 

America  affiliates,  COVID-19  relief  organiza-

tions, and programs to assist those impacted 

by Hurricanes Hanna and Isaias.

 • COMP-U-DOPT  PARTNERSHIP — Providing 
students and families with critical online lear-

 • VISTRA TREES FOR GROWTH — Since 2002, 
Vistra  has  provided  nearly  300,000  trees  to 

communities  through  our  Trees  for  Growth 

program and longstanding partnership with 

the  Texas  Trees  Foun-

dation.  Through  these 

tree  donations,  Vistra 

has  helped  generate 

environmental  savings 

and health benefits for 

municipalities  and  re-

sidents  valued  at  ~$37 

million annually during 
the life of the trees. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report38

<< Table of Contents

 • TXU  ENERGY  URBAN  TREE  FARM  AND 
EDUCATION  CENTER — For  over  15  years, 
TXU  Energy  has  sponsored  the  TXU  Ener-

gy  Urban  Tree  Farm  and  Education  Center, 

which assists Texas Trees Foundation in their 

mission  to  create  healthy  and  sustainable 

communities. The center serves as a resour-

ce for urban forestry operations, volunteer re-

cruitment,  and  carbon  sink  and  urban  heat 

island mitigation for North Dallas. The nearly 

10-acre  tree  farm  at  Richland  College  featu-

res state-of-the-art production and irrigation 
technology  with  the  capacity  to  produce 

nearly 1,000 15-gallon and 30-gallon trees per 

planting season. Trees are offered to the pu-

blic through programs like NeighborWoods, 

Southwestern  Medical  District  project,  and 

various community tree plantings and seed-

ling adoption events. Year after year, the TXU 

Energy Urban Tree Farm and Education Cen-

ter continues to provide a place for urban fo-

restry education and sharing the importance 

of trees in our communities. 

 • LUMINANT  ENVIRONMENTAL  RESEARCH 
PROGRAM — Since  pioneering  a  unique 
scientific partnership between industry and 

academia  50  years  ago,  Luminant’s  Envi-

ronmental  Research  Program  has  provided 

graduate students with over $5 million in fe-

llowship funding for the completion and pu-

blication  of  over  110  independent  post-gra-

duate  studies  related  to  the  company’s 

environmental  footprint.  This  program  has 

provided significant economic and environ-

mental benefits to Luminant, its customers, 

and  to  the  advancement  of  research,  scho-

larship, as well as student and faculty mem-

ber development. 

LOCAL COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENT
Vistra and our subsidiaries have also undertaken 

initiatives  to  engage  local  communities  as  we 

address the potential impacts of our operations. 

Examples of these initiatives include:  

 • To help residents stay informed about state 
and  local  programs  related  to  COVID-19  re-

lief, Vistra and TXU Energy were honored to 

partner with the City of Irving to provide an 

online  webinar  highlighting  bill-payment 

assistance resources for residents. The webi-

nar featured highlights of the State of Texas’ 

COVID-19 Electricity Relief Program and the 
company’s  TXU  Energy  AidSM  and  COVID-19 
relief efforts.

 •

In  an  effort  to  keep  our  communities  infor-

med about power plant operations that may 

have an impact on our communities, Vistra 

regularly  hosts  in-person  and  virtual  mee-

tings  with  key  community  stakeholders.  In 

2020,  meeting  topics  ranged  from  retire-

ment  announcements  to  legislative  deve-

lopments related to the Illinois Coal to Solar 

and Energy Storage Act.

 • Luminant  conducts  quarterly  emergency 
response team training and outreach at our 

largest generating sites. These events invol-

ve periodically engaging local fire, EMS, and 

law  enforcement  departments  at  our  faci-

lities,  familiarizing  them  with  potential  ha-

zards  they  may  encounter  during  potential 

emergency  response,  and  coordinating  tra-

ining  exercises  with  Luminant’s  emergency 

response  team.  These  efforts  include  coor-

dination with emergency management de-

partments  at  local,  state,  and  federal  levels 

for Comanche Peak Nuclear Power Plant in 

Glen Rose, Texas. 

 • Luminant  holds  Emergency  Action  Plan 
(EAP)  “table  top”  meetings  for  each  of  the 

dams  near  its  operations.  These  meetings 

are  attended  by  multiple  state  and  local 

agencies,  including  emergency  officials,  to 

inform and coordinate with these stakehol-

ders  on  our  emergency  prevention  and  ac-

tion plan policies.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report39
39

<< Table of Contents

Supply Chain

Vistra  has  a  robust,  centralized,  strategic  su-

pply  chain  organization.  We  engage  suppliers 

ESG ENGAGEMENT 
In 2020, Vistra’s supply chain and sustainability 

around the world to support our power gene-

teams partnered to begin the process of deve-

ration  business  and  our  corporate  shared  ser-

loping a formal Supply Chain Sustainability Ini-

vices  functions.  In  2020,  we  spent  ~$1.6  billion 

tiative. The teams identified an inaugural class 

with ~7,000 suppliers. This includes everything 

of participants to create a baseline of suppliers 

from manufacturers of power generation equi-

to report on ESG metrics and performance. In 

pment  (such  as  solar  panels,  utility-grade  bat-

addition,  we  began  benchmarking  with  other 

teries, generators, and turbines) to power plant 

similar  companies  to  establish  best  practices 

maintenance  providers  and  call  center  and 

for future implementation. 

sales personnel, in addition to other corporate 

products and services.

In early 2021, we requested targeted suppliers, 

representing  ~36%  of  our  spend,  to  report  on 

Our  suppliers  reflect  our  values  and  agree  to 

their  ESG  performance.  We  noticed  strong 

our  supplier  code  of  conduct,  found  on  our 

commitments  and  practices  to  all  ESG  facets. 

website,  which  we  recently  updated  in  2020. 

In particular, all respondents have a solid gover-

In  addition  to  residing  on  our  website,  every 

nance framework in place with 100% having (i) 

purchase  order  links  to  our  Supplier  Code  of 

management  oversight  of  sustainability-rela-

Conduct  through  its  Terms  &  Conditions.  By 

ted  issues,  (ii)  an  environmental  and/or  sustai-

acknowledging  the  purchase  order,  suppliers 

nability policy in place, and (iii) annually measu-

agree to abide by the code. 

re and publicly report sustainable information. 

Further  commitments  to  social  and  environ-

In response to COVID-19, our supply chain team 

mental practices were noted with nearly 80% of 

moved  quickly  to  secure  critical  personal  pro-

respondents  having  each  (i)  a  GHG  emissions 

tective equipment for our in-field team mem-

reduction  goal,  (ii)  a  human  rights  policy,  and 

bers, as well as supplies and materials for those 

(iii) a diversity and inclusion policy or program. 

who  are  currently  working  from  home.  In  all, 

Leading  by  example,  Vistra  has  engagement 

there  were  nearly  1,500  total  shipments  of  su-

plans  to  connect  with  those  that  do  not  have 

pplies  for  COVID-19  support,  including  10,200 

certain policies or sustainable performance ob-

N95 masks, 27,400 KN95 masks, 55,000 surgical 

jectives in place, such as GHG emissions reduc-

masks,  and  16,000  cloth  masks.  We  donated 

tion goals or a human rights policy, to promote 

nearly 30,000 masks to area hospitals in the ear-

best practices. 

ly stages of the pandemic when they were diffi-

cult to obtain, and also provided nearly 40,000 

This program is just beginning. Vistra will conti-

masks to hospitals and schools to support their 

nue to expand and enhance our Supply Chain 

PPE  needs  during  the  pandemic.  The  team 

Sustainability Initiative throughout the year. We 

arranged  for  delivery  of  nearly  400  stand-up 

believe  through  partnering  together  with  our 

desks to employees working from home upon 

suppliers,  we  can  more  positively  impact  the 

request.  The  supply  chain  team,  working  with 

communities we serve and be better stewards 

the  safety  team  and  technology  services,  also 

of the environment. 

purchased and implemented thermal imaging 

devices that are currently in use at 31 plants and 

all  office  locations  to  efficiently  temperature 

check employees prior to site entry to comple-

RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
For  Vistra’s  various  renewable  development 

ment Vistra’s screening questions. 

projects,  as  described  in  the  “Portfolio  Trans-

formation” section below, Vistra’s procurement 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report40

<< Table of Contents

In 2020, Vistra made a five-year 

commitment of $10 million to 

promote economic development 

and support educational 

opportunities.  This included a 

five year, $100,000 contribution to 

the NMSDC Rebuilding Fund for 

immediate relief and support of 

MBE’s affected by the pandemic 

and social unrest.

process  considers  sourcing  of  raw  materials 

and arranges for end of life treatment such as 

equipment replacement or recycling. 

SUPPLY CHAIN RISK  
MANAGEMENT
Risk assessment and management within Vis-

tra’s supply chain is performed independently 

For  our  energy  storage  projects,  batteries  are 

by individual sourcing and category managers 

sourced from a number of manufacturers who 

based  on  the  supplier.  In  2020,  we  engaged 

are able to provide detailed sourcing and trac-

a  third  party  specifically  to  evaluate  our  top 

king  methods  of  the  ultimate  product  procu-

50  suppliers  for  Business  Continuity  Risk  as  a 

red.  For  example,  batteries  procured  from  LG 

result of the pandemic. Vistra currently has 51 

Chem or Samsung have complete traceability 

Critical Tier 1 Suppliers reflecting all categories 

back  to  the  mine  in  which  the  raw  materials 

under  supply  chain  management:  IT,  Shared 

were  produced,  the  batch  mixing  completed, 

Services, and Fossil and Nuclear Generation. In 

who the operators were, and the ultimate pro-

2021, Vistra is enhancing the risk management 

duction  date  including  all  testing  and  quality 

process  and  implementing  a  formalized  Risk 

assurance reports. In addition, our battery pro-

Management  Matrix  based  on  updated  cate-

curement also contemplates and arranges for 

gory  segmentation. 

recycling  requirements  and  sets  minimum 

standards  for  recyclability.  Currently,  over  95% 

of an energy storage battery can be recycled.

SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY
Supported  through  Vistra’s  overall  commit-

Solar  panels  have  a  similar  procurement  pro-

ment to DEI, Vistra’s supply chain diversity ini-

cess. When Vistra issues a request for proposal 

tiative seeks to reflect our customer base and 

and  commits  to  a  panel  manufacturer,  strict 

workforce  compositions  through  a  diverse 

adherence  to  traceability  is  required  and  ob-

supply chain. Endorsed and supported by the 

tained from the manufacturer.  Given that the 

highest  level  of  Vistra’s  management  team, 

majority  of  components  within  a  solar  panel 

this  initiative  supports  the  development  and 

can  be  recycled,  we  are  able  to  meet  our  ob-

utilization of businesses owned by women, mi-

jectives on responsible sourcing. Together with 

norities, veterans, LGBTQ+, and disabled indivi-

the  traceability,  recycling  attributes,  and  long 

duals, as well as small businesses. Vistra’s CEO 

lifecycle of a solar panel, we can ensure we are 

serves as the chair of the Supply Chain Diver-

procuring products in an environmentally res-

sity Advisory Council, which is comprised of all 

ponsible manner.

his  direct  reports.  The  council meets  annually 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report41

<< Table of Contents

LEADING THE WAY ON 
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY

Members of senior leadership at Vistra 

serve on the board of directors for the 

following supplier diversity organiza-

tions:
 •

 •

 •

 •

 •

 •

The National Minority Supplier 

Development Council (www.

NMSDC.org).

The Women’s Business Enterprise 

National Council (www.WBENC.

org). 

The National Veteran Owned 

Business Association (www.

NaVOBA.org).

The Dallas/Fort Worth Minority 

Business Development Council 

(www.DFWMSDC.com).

The Women’s Business Council 

Southwest (wbcsouthwest.org/).

We are also active members 

of the National Gay & Lesbian 

Chamber of Commerce (www.

NGLCC.org) and Disability:IN 

(www.DISABILITYIN.org)

to drive strategic direction and senior leaders-

Vistra was recognized by multiple organizations 

hip engagement. Vistra’s senior vice president 

for our supplier diversity efforts in 2020: 

of supply chain and his leadership team serve 

as  the  supply  chain  diversity  working  group, 

which meets monthly to evaluate performance 

and drive continuous improvement.

At  Vistra,  we  recognize  that  a  successful,  pro-

gressive,  and  innovative  supply  chain  diversity 

initiative not only enhances the economic de-

 • Vistra was selected as a “Best Corporation for Veteran 
Business Enterprise” by the National Veteran Owned 

Business Association (NaVOBA).

 • Vistra was one of five Class II finalists for the National 

Minority Supplier Development Council Corporation of 

the Year, recognized for excellence in the utilization and 

development of Minority Business Enterprises. 

 • Vistra was honored with the Platinum Top Corporation 
Award from the Women’s Business Enterprise National 

velopment  of  communities  but  strengthens 

Council (WBENC) for the utilization and development of 

Vistra’s  competitive  advantage  in  the  marke-

tplace.  In  2020,  we  achieved  ~13%  spend  with 

Small  Business  Enterprises  and  nearly  7% 

women’s business enterprises.

 • Vistra was awarded the “2020 Corporation of the Year” 
by the DFW Minority Supplier Development Council.

 • Vistra’s CEO was inducted into the Dallas-based 

spend  with  Diverse  Business  Enterprises  with 

American Institute of Diversity & Commerce’s national 

third-party certification. These small and diver-

se suppliers, as well as channel partners, drive 

costs out of our business, bring innovation, and 

create market penetration. By growing and de-

veloping these small and diverse firms — inclu-

ding businesses certified as being 51% or more 

owned, controlled, and operated by ethnic mi-

norities,  women,  veterans,  LGBTQ+,  and  disa-

bled  individuals,  we  are  investing  in  our  own 
business success. 

Women’s Business Enterprise Hall of Fame. 

 • Vistra was recognized by the Dallas Fort Worth Minority 
Supplier Development Council (DFWMSDC) as a “Buy 

Those That Buy Us”™ Corporation, recognizing best 

practices that have achieved real results utilizing cer-

tified Minority Business Enterprises and encouraging 

others to include these best practices in their supplier 

diversity programs.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report42

Vistra Corp • 2020 Sustainability Report

<< Table of Contents

Political  
Involvement

As  outlined  in  Vistra’s  Lobbying  &  Political 

These  key  business  interests  and  legislative 

Contributions Policy, found on Vistra’s website, 

priorities  are  determined  by  Vistra’s  Manage-

Vistra  supports  corporate  citizenship  initiati-

ment  Committee  after  reviewing  recommen-

ves  and  takes  an  active  voice  on  potential  or 

dations from the government affairs and regu-

proposed legislation and regulation while also 

latory affairs teams. 

participating  in  meetings,  providing  written 

letters,  and  interacting  regularly  with  regula-

Vistra  lobbies  by  advocating  for  legislation  and 

tors  and  policymakers.  Vistra  also  advocates 

regulations that will enhance value for our cus-

for our business interests with state and fede-

tomers, communities, environment, employees, 

ral  government  officials.  Vistra’s  key  business 

and shareholders. We recognize that public po-

interests include:

 • retail electric and generation policy and regulations,
 • environmental, sustainability, climate change mitiga-

licy  decisions  can  greatly  impact  our  business 

and  industry,  now  and  in  the  future.  Vistra  re-

views all lobbying efforts to ensure adherence to 

tion, and other climate policy and regulations,

applicable laws and Vistra’s core principles.

 • tax policy, regulations, and rules; and
 • the health, safety, and welfare of our employees, inclu-

ding DEI, social equity, and justice.

The appendix of this report includes Vistra’s vo-

luntary, annual report of its PACs’ contributions, 

corporate political contributions, and members-

hip dues to trade organizations.

Vistra’s political action 

committees (PACs) provide 

employees a way to participate in 

the political process by investing 

in the companies’ political 

visibility and advocacy efforts.

Environmental 
Stewardship

VISTRA IS COMMITTED TO BEING A GOOD STEWARD 

of the environment and is positioning itself to be a 

sustainable leader among power generators. Vistra’s 

environmental principles, which can be found on our 

website, communicate the management and business 

practices of Vistra’s interactions with the environment. 

All Vistra employees conduct business and make 

decisions with these environmental principles in mind. 

We are committed to complying with environmental 

laws and regulations, improving our operations through 

investments in carbon-free generation and innovative 

technologies, and measuring and reporting our 

progress toward cleaner air, water, and land.

44
44

<< Table of Contents

Climate  
Strategy

Climate change is a collective issue impacting 

while continuing to provide affordable, reliable, 

all citizens, industries, and nations, and it must 

and sustainable power to our customers.

be  addressed  collectively,  with  all  participants 

doing  their  part  to  reduce  their  environmen-

tal  footprint.  As  an  integrated  retail  electricity 

provider and producer of electric power, Vistra 

We  are  committed  to  leading  in  the  climate 

change  effort  as  we  invest  in  zero-carbon  re-

sources,  retire  coal  assets,  and  support  and 

invest in environmentally-sound solutions and 

technology. Electricity is an essential resource, 

and we expect the demand for it will continue 

to  grow  as  climate  initiatives  are  implemen-

ted and the economy is further electrified. So, 

while  the  way  we  produce  electricity  is  chan-

ging, our essential role in providing reliable and 

affordable  electricity  that  is  increasingly  lower 

carbon, is not. As we adapt our business opera-

tions to compete in an economy with drastica-

lly lower emissions, Vistra believes the anticipa-

ted impacts of climate change and the related 

potential global mitigations will be not threats 

to  the  business,  but  rather  opportunities  for 

Vistra to play an increasingly important role in 

the energy transition. 

Risks and opportunities that stem from climate 

change  are  managed  through  Vistra’s  establi-

shed enterprise risk management framework. 

In  September  2020,  Vistra  published  a  TCFD 

guided  Climate  Report  that  discusses  various 

climate-related risks and opportunities that Vis-

tra management has identified as influencing 

the company’s long-term strategy. We similar-

is  committed  to  combating  climate  change 

ly  completed  the  CDP  climate  report  in  2020, 

through,  most  importantly,  the  reduction  of 

which  provides  additional  details  about  the 

GHG  emissions  from  our  business  activities. 

climate-related risks and opportunities influen-

In  devising  our  long-term  strategy,  Vistra  has 

cing  Vistra’s  strategy  and  business  operations. 

taken a balanced approach to lower emissions 

We  will be participating in CDP once again in 

through the transformation of our generation 

2021  and  will  post  our  updated  report  to  our 

fleet  to  low-to-no  carbon  generation  sources 

website when it is available.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report45
45

<< Table of Contents

Portfolio  
Transformation

Vistra’s  long-term  strategy  to  transform  its 

 • Battery Energy Storage Projects:

generation  portfolio  toward  low-to-no  carbon 

resources is the key driver that will enable the 

 ◦ 2018 — operations commenced for 10 MW/42 MWh 
battery energy storage system (ESS) at our Upton 

company to achieve its GHG emissions reduc-

2 solar facility in Texas 

tion goals. 2020 was a year of significant trans-

formation  for  Vistra  as  we  announced  a  com-

 ◦ Between 2018 and 2020 — announced the planned 
development of ~440 MW/1760 MWh of various 

prehensive plan to accelerate our transition to 

ESS in California 

clean power generation sources and launched 

 ◦ Sept. 2020 — announced the planned develop-

Vistra  Zero,  a  brand  reflecting  our  portfolio  of 

ment of a 260 MW ESS in Texas that is expected to 

zero-carbon generation facilities.

Recent announcements related to Vistra’s por-

enter commercial operation in 2022

 ◦ Dec. 2020 — Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility 
connected to the power grid and began operating, 

tfolio transformation include:

the largest ESS of its kind in the world

 • Solar Development Projects:

 • Retirements of Coal Generation:

 ◦ June 2018 — began commercial operations of 180 

MW Upton 2 solar facility in Texas

 ◦ Nov. 2018 — retired over 4,000 MW of lignite/
coal-fueled generation facilities in Texas

 ◦ Sept. 2020 — announced the planned develop-

 ◦ Nov. 2019 — retired ~2,000 MW of coal-fueled gene-

ment of nearly 600 MW of solar generation facili-

ration facilities in Illinois

ties in Texas that are expected to begin commer-

cial operations during 2021-2022

 ◦ Sept. 2020 — announced expected retirements of 
an additional ~7,500 MW of coal-fueled generation 

facilities in Illinois, Ohio, and Texas no later than 

year-end 2027 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report46

<< Table of Contents

 • Up  to  475  MW  of  solar  and  battery  energy 
storage in Illinois, dependent on the passage 

of the Illinois Coal to Solar and Battery Ener-

gy  Storage  Act,  which  would  support  the 

transition  of  retired  coal  plants  in  Illinois  to 

renewable resources

Vistra  has  laid  out  a  10-year  view,  which  assu-

mes  we  will  invest  ~$5  billion  of  growth  capi-

tal  in  renewables,  battery  energy  storage,  and  

retail opportunities between now and 2030. As 

a  result,  we  expect  that  nearly  20%  of  our  Ad-

justed EBITDA and generation capacity will be 

derived from renewable assets by 2030.

Vistra recognizes that the transition to a clean 

energy  future  cannot  happen  overnight.  Ra-

ther, the transition must be executed in a res-

ponsible  manner  to  ensure  that  our  critical 

product,  electricity,  remains  reliable  and  affor-

dable for all as the energy transition advances. 

The Vistra team is taking strategic actions today 

that we expect will have a meaningful impact 

on our carbon footprint tomorrow. Through dis-

ciplined  investments,  Vistra  is  well-positioned 

to not only prove our resiliency during this im-

portant  transformation  to  cleaner  generation 

sources, but to lead the way.

Beyond  these  actions  and  announcements, 

Vistra  has  a  robust  pipeline  for  the  develop-

ment of incremental solar and battery energy 

storage, including:

 • Over 1,500 MW of incremental energy storage 
development at our existing sites in California 

 • ~1,000  MW  of  incremental  solar  projects  in 

Texas

PURSUING A JUST TRANSISTION

The most difficult decisions we make in our business are ones that impact our people and our plant communities. Though 

power plant retirement decisions are never easy, Vistra strives to provide a just transition for our employees and their com-

munities and works to minimize the social and economic impacts of closures.

For Employees

For Local Communities

 ✓ Advanced notice of closure
 ✓ Severance packages
 ✓ Outplacement services
 ✓ Resources for job skills training for new technologies
 ✓ Potential placements in alternate roles inside the 

organization

 ✓ Develop property tax plans that the cushion the near-

term impact of plant shutdowns

 ✓ Support legislation to redevelop sites into solar and 

energy storage facilities

 ✓ Invest in zero-carbon technologies to enhance air 

quality

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report47
47

<< Table of Contents

Innovation

Innovation is critical to continuing to best ser-

TXU Energy Free Nights® in 2012, giving cus-

ve the needs of our customers across dynamic, 

tomers a chance to save energy charges by 

evolving markets as well as adapting our gene-

shifting energy-intensive activities to certain 

ration fleet as the grid’s energy mix transitions. 

hours. The company later enhanced the pro-

Developing novel approaches and investing in 

duct  offering  to  include  weekends  or  other 

new  technologies  are  fundamental  to  Vistra’s 

designated times, and it is TXU Energy’s hi-

businesses  and  to  achieving  our  overarching 

ghest-rated  plan.  The  product  allows  Vistra 

sustainability goals. Vistra takes a comprehen-

to  capitalize  on  low-cost  wind-generated 

sive approach to innovation, involving a variety 

energy in Texas, and, on average, Free Nights 

of  internal  teams,  external  stakeholders,  and 

customers get nearly 40% of their electricity 

industry partners. Vistra is focused on piloting 

for free.

and  deploying  new  technologies  as  well  as 

finding new products and approaches to best 

serve our customers.  

INNOVATION GOVERNANCE
Vistra has established teams of subject matter 

 • EV  CHARGING — In  2021,  TXU  Energy  intro-
duced  an  EV  Charging  plan  to  make  char-

ging more affordable as well as to encoura-

ge customers to shift charging to non-peak 

hours by offering 50% discounts on charging 

experts for several key emerging technologies. 

overnight.

Each  of  these  teams  include  members  that 

focus on technical viability, economic attracti-

veness,  and  market  readiness.  When  a  speci-

 • HVAC  SERVICES — TXU  Energy  recently 
launched  a  new  service  plan  that  includes 

fic  innovative  project  is  identified,  the  project 

free  HVAC  maintenance  visits  twice  a  year 

team engages in comprehensive due diligen-

to lower customers’ energy bills and reduce 

ce,  develops  financial  analysis,  negotiates  de-

peak load on the grid during extreme tem-

finitive  agreements,  and  prepares  for  project 

peratures.

execution. Depending on key attributes of the 

project,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  size 

of capital investment and duration of any con-

 • SMART  METER  AND  DISAGGREGATION —  
Using advanced analytics, TXU Energy iden-

tractual  commitments,  the  project  team  will 

tified potential issues with customer’s HVACs 

seek  required  approvals  from  a  member  of 

from their energy consumption information 

Vistra’s  senior  management  team,  the  Com-

on  their  smart  meters.  TXU  Energy  alerted 

mitments Committee, and/or Vistra’s board of 

these customers and offered free tune ups to 

directors.

help resolve the issues.

RETAIL CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
Vistra Retail continuously seeks to expand the 

 • TXU  iTHERMOSTATTM — TXU  Energy  intro-
duced  the  first  two-way,  Internet-enabled 

ways in which we serve our more than four mi-

thermostat  in  Texas’  competitive  electricity 

llion  residential  and  commercial  customers. 

market in 2009. The WiFi-enabled thermos-

Examples  of  energy  efficiency  and  demand 

tat allows customers to set a schedule from 

management  products  and  services  that  Vis-

their  smartphone  and  remotely  adjust  set-

tra Retail has developed to best serve the evol-

tings with the tap of a button. The thermos-

ving needs of our customers include:

tat  also  enables  customers  to  participate  in 

demand response, where TXU Energy remo-

 • TIME-OF-USE  PRODUCTS — TXU  Energy 
was  the  first  retail  electric  provider  in  Texas 

tely manages their HVACs to reduce energy 

consumption  and  peak  load,  supporting 

to offer a time-of-use plan when it rolled out 

energy conservation and grid stability.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report48

<< Table of Contents

 • MYENERGY  DASHBOARD — TXU  Energy 
believes  that  helping  customers  better  un-

their business’ energy usage and cost data. 

The Dynegy Dashboard and TXU Energy 

derstand how and when they use electricity 

Dashboard enable customers to view and 

improves their overall experience and saves 

export all billing and usage information, as 

them  money.  The  TXU  Energy  MyEnergy 

well as compare facilities based on total cost, 

Dashboard is a free tool that allows residen-

usage, or cost per sq. ft., saving them time 

tial and business customers to examine their 

and helping them drive efficiency. Custo-

electricity usage to reduce energy consump-

mers also have the opportunity to sign up to 

tion and, ultimately, lower their electric bills. 

receive regional notifications for ERCOT, PJM, 

It also provides a forecast of what their usage 

and MISO to help them reduce their energy 

and  cost  could  be  at  the  end  of  the  mon-

demand during peak summer periods.

th,  based  on  current  usage  patterns,  giving 

them valuable insights that can lead to be-

havioral changes.

GENERATION 
Vistra seeks out new technologies to ensure we 

can continue to produce safe, reliable, and affor-

 • CUSTOM  BUSINESS  SOLUTIONS — Innova-
tion efforts for the commercial and industrial 

dable electricity as we transition to increasingly 

low-to-no-carbon  emitting  resources.  Vistra’s 

segment  are  focused  on  technologies,  pro-

support  of  innovation  efforts  across  our  gene-

ducts,  and  partnerships  for  energy  efficien-

ration fleet extends from the maintenance and 

cy, demand management, resiliency, power 

optimization of our existing conventional assets 

quality, and electrification solutions.

to the development of new energy storage and 

 ◦ GREENBACK PROGRAM — Vistra Retail 

renewable  technologies,  all  of  which  will  be 

essential  to  ensuring  a  reliable,  cost-effective 

introduced the Greenback program, a uni-

power  supply  as  the  generation  mix  evolves. 

que self-funded rebate program that helps 

Examples  of  projects  that  Vistra  has  under-

customers offset the cost of their energy 

taken to support these efforts include:

efficiency projects, more than 10 years ago. 

These rebates, totaling over $20 million to 

date, have helped customers conduct ener-

 • BATTERY  ENERGY  STORAGE — Vistra  is  a 
market leader in utility-scale battery energy 

gy audits, install LED lights, convert to solar 

storage  development  and  commercializa-

energy, upgrade their HVAC systems, install 

tion.  We  are  currently  operating  or  develo-

electric vehicle chargers or make other im-

ping  five  battery  projects  in  California  and 

provements, to permanently reduce their  

Texas.

energy consumption. 

 ◦ TXU REDUCTION REWARDS — TXU Energy 
offers commercial customers the opportu-

 ◦ CALIFORNIA — The most prominent project 
is our Moss Landing Energy Storage Facility. 

At 300 MW/1,200 MWh, the lithium-ion 

battery storage system, located on-site at 

nity to participate in a voluntary demand 

Vistra’s Moss Landing Power Plant in Mon-

response program. When we identify 

terey County, California, is the largest of its 

periods where the market and customers 

kind in the world. Furthermore, construction 

could benefit from lower demand, we notify 

is already underway on Phase II, which will 

participating large business customers. If 

add an additional 100 MW/400 MWh to the 

they choose to reduce usage, they get paid 

facility by August 2021, bringing its total ca-

for doing so.

 ◦ DIGITAL DASHBOARDS — Vistra’s commer-
cial and industrial customers now enjoy 

pacity to 400 MW/1,600 MWh. The company 

continues to develop the Moss Landing site 

having received California Environmental 

Quality Act (CEQA) permitting for up to a 

access to a new, free online portal, making it 

total of 1,500 MW/6,000 MWh of energy 

easy for them to track and identify trends in 

storage.  

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report49

<< Table of Contents

Nights & Solar DaysSM. In September of 2020, 

Vistra furthered battery growth in Texas 

with the announced development of a 260 

MW/260 MWh ESS system at our DeCordova 

Power Plant. The system will combine the 

immediate response from a battery with the 

longevity of a dual fuel oil and gas turbine. 

At 260 MW, this is the largest fully integra-

ted hybrid (energy storage and gas turbine) 

platform in the world. The facility will add to 

ERCOT’s reliability through its ability to serve 

in the ancillary services, having an imme-

diate response, and its long-term operation 

capacity.

 • THERMAL  ENERGY  STORAGE — Vistra  is 
engaged  with  the  “Grid-Scale  Electricity 

Storage at Lowest Possible Cost Enabled by 

Pumped  Heat  Electricity  Storage”  research 

project  through  Vistra’s  collaboration  with 

the  Southwest  Research  Institute  (SwRI) 

and  Malta  Inc.  under  the  Department  of 

Energy  ARPA-E’s  OPEN  2018  program.  Vis-

tra  is  performing  a  technical  and  econo-

mic  evaluation  of  Malta’s  pumped  thermal 

energy storage system for use within Vistra’s 

Vistra is also developing a 40 MW/160 MWh 

conventional  generation  fleet.  The  advan-

ESS at our Oakland Power Plant in Oakland, 

ced  pumped  heat  ESS  is  based  on  a  novel 

California and is proposing a 600 MW/2,400 

thermodynamic cycle to store energy in hot 

MWh ESS at our retired Morro Bay facility in 

and  cold  fluids.  This  technology  is  comple-

Morro Bay, California. These battery projects 

mentary to traditional chemical batteries at 

will help increase local electric reliability by 

the grid-level. While it cannot be dispatched 

turning on quickly when incremental power 

instantaneously,  it  can  store  and  discharge 

supply is needed (particularly when Cali-

energy  for  greater  time  durations,  adding 

fornia’s large solar generation fleet powers 

another layer of grid stability for intermittent 

down in the evening), and they will assist in 

renewables. Synergies between this type of 

curtailing fossil-fueled peaking power plants, 

ESS and traditional combined cycle gas tur-

lessening California’s reliance on fossil-fueled 

bine  plants  can  support  reductions  in  car-

electric generation and associated water 

bon emissions. 

requirements.

 ◦ TEXAS — In Texas, Vistra’s Upton 2 Energy 
Storage Facility, 10 MW/42 MWh, comple-

 • VR  TECHNOLOGY — Vistra  is  deploying  Vir-
tual  Reality  technology  to  enable  real-time 

collaboration between remote sites and Vis-

ments Vistra’s 180 MW solar facility, storing 

tra’s  subject  matter  experts.  Vistra  utilizes 

excess solar generation. The battery and 

wearable devices in the field to enable faster 

solar facility support the ERCOT grid during 

issue  diagnostics  and  resolution,  as  well  as 

peak times in both winter and summer. They 

to ensure that our geographically dispersed 

also support our green-focused retail cus-

personnel  and  assets  receive  the  support 

tomer products such as TXU Energy’s Free 

needed to maintain safe, reliable operations.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
50

<< Table of Contents

 • DEPLOYMENT OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGEN-

zing our capabilities as a leading operator of 

CE  AND  MACHINE  LEARNING  FORECAS-
TING  APPLICATIONS — Vistra’s  commercial, 
technology, and fundamentals teams imple-

nuclear power plants to provide remote mo-

nitoring  and  diagnostic  services  to  Coman-

che Peak, Vistra’s 2.3 GW Texas nuclear plant, 

mented  advanced  methods  using  artificial 

as well as to third-party owned and operated 

intelligence  and  machine  learning  applica-

nuclear  power  plants.  In  partnership  with 

tions  to  forecast  energy  demand.  The  abi-

Idaho National Laboratory and other private 

lity  to  predict  demand  at  industry-leading 

nuclear  operators,  Vistra  is  developing  a  te-

resolutions  enables  more  efficient  dispatch 

chnology  platform  including  artificial  inte-

of  our  generation  fleet,  early  warning  of 

lligence  and  machine  learning  capabilities 

anomalies, and ultimately lowers the cost of 

to sustain the economic competitiveness of 

providing  electricity  to  our  customers.  The-

the nation’s nuclear power fleet through the 

se tools optimize the fleet, enable lower fuel 

application of advanced technologies.

consumption,  and  are  critical  in  adapting 

the  fleet  to  changes  in  demand  caused  by 

extreme  weather,  the  impacts  of  COVID-19, 

INNOVATION PARTNERSHIPS
Vistra’s partnerships with key industry groups, 

and other unforeseen events. 

investment  firms,  suppliers,  academic  institu-

tions,  and  government  organizations  are  key 

 • DEPLOYMENT  OF  ADVANCED  ANALYTICS 

to  maintaining  Vistra’s  market-leading  posi-

MODELS  IN  OUR  POWER  GENERATION 
FLEET — Vistra’s  operations,  generation  ser-
vices,  and  technology  teams  have  imple-

tion  as  the  company’s  retail  and  generation 

businesses continue to evolve and grow. Vistra 

has developed relationships with a number of 

mented  300+  real-time  machine  learning 

organizations  to  which  Vistra  both  provides 

models across the fossil fleet to drive opera-

our  operational  and  market  expertise  and,  in 

tional  improvements  and  plant  efficiencies. 

return,  gains  access  to  valuable  insight  and 

The  models  have  been  jointly  developed 

collaboration regarding the development and 

with our plant teams and deployed with hea-

deployment of energy technologies and inno-

vy operator involvement. These tools are op-

vations across the value chain. Some of Vistra’s 

timizing  efficiency  and  minimizing  carbon 

key innovation partnerships include:

emissions,  just  one  way  Vistra  is  harnessing 

the latest technology to improve operations. 

This  project  has  produced  1-2%  efficien-

 • THE WESTLY GROUP — In 2020, Vistra made 
a $20 million commitment to invest in a new 

cy  gains  across  the  fleet  thus  far,  resulting 

fund  managed  by  The  Westly  Group,  a  lea-

in  a  reduction  of  annual  carbon  emissions 

ding venture capital firm with an established 

equivalent  to  the  annual  emissions  from 

track  record  of  identifying  and  supporting 

~200,000 cars. 

emerging  energy  technologies.  The  Westly 

Group  is  focused  on  investing  in  early  stage 

 •

INDUSTRY  DEMONSTRATION — DEPART-

companies that are developing new techno-

MENT  OF  ENERGY — ADVANCED  REMO-

logies and service offerings related to Smart 

TE  MONITORING  SERVICES  (ARM)  PRO-
JECT — Vistra is engaged with the “Advanced 
Remote Monitoring and Diagnostic Services” 

Energy, Smart Mobility, Smart Buildings, and 

Industry  4.0.  In  addition  to  investing  via  the 

Westly  Group,  we  can  leverage  our  position 

project  through  Vistra’s  membership  in  the 

as  a  leading  competitive  generator  and  re-

Utilities Service Alliance, under a cooperative 

tailer in the U.S. to partner directly with early 

agreement with the DOE — Office of Nuclear 

stage  companies  to  pilot  new  technologies 

Energy’s  Advanced  Reactor  Development 

and help shape product roadmaps. 

Projects  pathway.  The  project  is  funded  in 

part  by  the  DOE,  which  granted  full  autho-

rization in 2020. In this project, Vistra is utili-

 • SUNRUN — TXU  Energy  has  partnered  with 
Sunrun,  the  national  leader  in  rooftop  so-

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report51

<< Table of Contents

lar, to offer rooftop solar panels to Texas ho-

clear generation. Vistra is currently engaged 

meowners. In 2020, TXU Energy began offe-

in  studies  of  advanced  components  and  te-

ring  home  battery  energy  storage  paired 

chnologies for gas turbines, materials and re-

with solar through this program. Residential 

liability studies for our conventional fleet, and 

customers can take advantage of incentives 

coal combustion products groundwater pro-

such as federal tax credits or rebates throu-

tection  and  remediation.  This  collaborative 

gh transmission and distribution utilities for 

work has recently provided advancements to 

installing  solar  arrays,  and  can  also  earn  bill 

Vistra in different areas, including alternative 

credits  when  their  system  produces  more 

fuel  combustion,  axial  fuel  staging,  and  ad-

energy than their home uses. 

vanced  gas  compressor  design,  with  bene-

 • THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  TEXAS — DALLAS — In 
2020, Vistra formed a partnership with UTD 

fits  to  fuel  efficiency  and  emissions  profiles. 

The partnership with EPRI provides a forum 

to collaborate with other industry peers and 

to  collaborate  on  Advanced  Analytics  pro-

supports research that will improve the effi-

jects  and  research.  The  Advanced  Analytics 

ciency of, and lessen the environmental im-

projects  include  applications  of  machine 

pact of, the broader energy industry. 

learning and artificial intelligence to genera-

tion optimization, energy storage modeling, 

and  predictive  analytics  across  the  gene-

 • UTILITIES  SERVICE  ALLIANCE  (USA) — The 
USA is a not-for-profit cooperative designed 

ration  fleet.  As  the  developer  of  the  largest 

to facilitate collaboration among its member 

operating  utility-scale  energy  storage  pro-

utilities. Together, USA members work to re-

ject in the world at Moss Landing in Califor-

duce operating and maintenance costs, im-

nia, Vistra is in a unique position to develop 

prove  safety  and  performance,  and  provide 

and  deploy  cutting-edge  tools  to  optimize 

innovation and leadership within the nuclear 

the  operation  of  energy  storage  systems.  In 

power  industry.  Through  Vistra’s  members-

2020, Vistra worked with leading researchers 

hip in USA, Vistra is researching, developing, 

from  UTD  to  create  tools  to  forecast  grid 

and  deploying  advanced  systems  contribu-

energy supply and demand, solar and wind 

ting to the long-term economic sustainabili-

energy production, and to optimize bidding, 

ty of the nation’s nuclear power fleet. Throu-

scheduling,  and  deployment  of  the  Moss 

gh the application of advanced technologies, 

Landing ESS. 

 • ELECTRIC  POWER  RESEARCH  INSTITUTE 
(EPRI) — Through  Vistra’s  partnership  with 
EPRI,  Vistra  supports  research  in  our  key  fo-

cus  areas,  including  conventional  and  nu-

USA and Vistra are developing an intelligent 

machine learning platform enabling impro-

ved work process efficiencies while maintai-

ning, and in many cases improving, levels of 

safety, reliability, and performance.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report52
52

<< Table of Contents

Environmental 
Compliance

Environmental stewardship is governed by our 

lar basis and tracks open items to completion. 

core  principle  that  we  do  business  the  right 

Permit deviations, spills, or other environmen-

way — we  are  committed  to  continuous  im-

tal incidents are tracked in a central reporting 

provement  of  environmental  protection  me-

system.  The  environmental  team  meets  with 

asures,  building  on  our  record  of  compliance 

senior management monthly to discuss com-

with  environmental  laws  and  regulations.  Vis-

pliance  items,  risks,  and  environmental  plan-

tra’s corporate environmental team assists and 

ning. Importantly for 2020, Vistra did not have 

guides compliance at each power plant, where 

any  significant  fines  resulting  from  notices  of 

each permit is reviewed to ensure compliance. 

violations  (NOVs),  which  are  preliminary  alle-

Roles and responsibilities are determined on a 

gations from the United States Environmental 

site-by-site basis, and all regulatory submittals 

Protection  Agency  or  a  state  environmental 

and  due  dates  are  tracked  in  the  company’s 

agency  regarding  potential  noncompliance. 

work order system. 

Vistra’s  environmental,  legal,  and  regulatory 

teams  coordinate  efforts  to  ensure  that  Vistra 

The corporate environmental team also perfor-

is  adhering  and  responding  to  all  federal  and 

ms  internal  audits  at  power  plants  on  a  regu-

state environmental regulations.

Environmental 
Performance

2030:  GOAL TO ACHIEVE A 60% REDUCTION 
IN CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS BY 2030 AS 
COMPARED TO A 2010 BASELINE

2050:  LONG-TERM GOAL TO ACHIEVE  
NET-ZERO CARBON EMISSIONS BY 2050

Vistra tracks and reports various environmental 

performance and financial metrics to not only 

show  progress  of  the  climate  strategy  initiati-

ves we have implemented but to hold oursel-

ves accountable to all stakeholders.

EMISSIONS
As a power producer, Vistra’s Scope 1 emissions, 

tion,  represent  the  substantial  majority  of  our 

total GHG emissions. Vistra’s Scope 2 emissions 

come  from  electricity  consumption  at  Vistra’s 

power  plants  and  corporate  offices.  Vistra’s 

power  plants  directly  generate  most  of  the 

power  they  consume,  though  they  do  consu-

me some auxiliary power from the grid. Vistra 

endeavors  to  reduce  our  energy  usage  throu-

gh  a  variety  of  efforts  at  our  corporate  offices 

which  are  discussed  in  the  “Facilities”  section 

of this report. In the table below, Vistra’s Scope 

3  emissions  represent  the  indirect  emissions 

associated  with  the  delivery  of  natural  gas  to 

our retail customers, which represent the most 

material Scope 3 emissions we have identified 

to  date  and  is  consistent  with  the  emissions 

that will be included in and tracked under Vis-

that are a byproduct of our electricity genera-

tra’s forthcoming Science Based Targets. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report53

<< Table of Contents

VISTRA’S SBT 
COMMITMENT

Vistra is among a thousand 
companies world-wide leading the 
zero-carbon transition by committing 
to set emissions reduction targets 
grounded in climate science through 
the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi). By joining SBTi’s Business 
Ambition for 1.5°C we will align our 
emissions reduction targets with the 
Paris Agreement to keep warming 
to 1.5°C and reaching science-based 
net-zero emissions by 2050. Vistra 
also signed a letter, led by Ceres and 
the We Mean Business Coalition, 
supporting the U.S. setting an 
ambitious Nationally Determined 
Contribution (NDC) climate target 
of at least a 50% reduction by 2030 
as compared to a 2005 baseline 
and setting a path to reach net-zero 
emissions by 2050. Through our long-
term strategy of transforming our 
generation portfolio from fossil fuels 
to renewables, investing in innovative 
technology, and advocating for 
appropriate and supportive public 
policy, we believe net-zero by 2050 is 
achievable.

Vistra  accelerated  our  GHG  emis-

sions  reduction  targets  in  2020 

and  is  now  setting  out  to  achieve 

a  60%  reduction  in  our  Scope  1 
and Scope 2 CO2 equivalent (CO2e) 
emissions  by  2030  as  compared 

to  a  2010  baseline  and  net-zero 
carbon  emissions  by  20501.  Vis-
tra’s  goal  to  be  net-zero  is  enter-

prise-wide, covering Vistra’s entire 

carbon footprint. 

From our 2010 baseline, Vistra has 

already  achieved  a  45%  reduction 
in CO2e emissions through year-end 2020, pu-
tting  Vistra  at  a  76%  achievement  level  of  our 

2030 goal. In addition, our efforts have also re-

sulted in the reduction of criteria air pollutants. 

Since 2010, Vistra has decreased carbon dioxi-
de (CO2) emissions by more than 45%, nitrogen 
oxide (NOX) emissions by 55%, and sulfur dioxi-
de (SO2) emissions by 75%.

ments, Vistra has a clear line of sight to achie-

ving  our  2030  emissions  reduction  goal.  We 

continue to invest in innovation and operatio-

nal improvements, as well as advocate for poli-

cy changes that will accelerate the global tran-

sition to a clean energy future. Through these 

expected  technological  advancements  and 

public  policy  incentives,  we  believe  we  will  be 

able to achieve our long-term target of net-zero 

Through  our  announced  coal  plant  retire-

emissions by 2050.

1) Assuming necessary advancements in technology and supportive market constructs and public policy.

Scope 11 emissions  
(metric tons CO2e)

Scope 21, location-based 
emissions (metric tons CO2e)

Scope 32 emissions  
(metric tons CO2e)

Total GHG emissions  
(metric tons CO2e)

2018

2019

2020

118,650,466

105,523,364

94,290,023

248,611

249,068

333,770

-

-

2,724,789

118,899,077

105,772,432

97,348,582

Total Generation (MWh)

166,988,411

186,428,605

172,243,738

Emissions Intensity  
(Scope 1 CO2e/MWh)

0.711

0.566

0.547

1)Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been reported according to the equity share approach as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard. Vistra 

obtains limited assurance on management’s assertion over Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions presented in the company’s Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from 

an external third party. Comparative information presented prior to December 31, 2019 for Scope 1 emissions and prior to December 31, 2020 for Scope 2, were not 

subjected to their review. 2) Represents the associated emissions from the Use of Sold Products, as categorized by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain 

Standard, which is consistent with the target-setting criteria  developed by the Science Based Targets initiative for electric utilities.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report54
54

<< Table of Contents

WATER
Water  is  a  limited,  expensive,  and  shared  re-

purposes  and  explore  new  ways  to  maximize 

water resources. Technologies such as the use 

source  that  is  essential  to  everyday  life  and 

of air-cooled condensers are also prevalent at 

Vistra’s  plant  operations.  Producing  electricity 

our  plants  where  water  supply  is  not  availa-

utilizes  water  in  several  key  functions  such  as 

ble. We have continued to invest in low-to-no 

producing  steam,  con-

water  use  generating  assets,  including  wind 

densing  steam,  cooling 

power,  solar  power,  and  combined-cycle  gas 

equipment, pollution con-

generation. Each of these actions helps to re-

trol,  and  in  some  circum-

duce the amount of water needed to produce 

stances,  boiler  make-up, 

electricity. Based on 2020 data, over 98% of the 

potable  water,  cleaning, 

water Vistra withdrew for its operations was re-

and  other  uses.  Therefo-

cycled or discharged back to the water source. 

re, water conservation is a 

primary  concern  at  each 

of our generating facilities, 

WASTE MANAGEMENT
Vistra’s facilities minimize the amount of waste 

especially  those  in  areas 

produced  at  each  of  our  locations.  This  inclu-

considered  “high  stress” 

des  limiting  the  amount  of  inventory  of  anci-

or  “extremely  high  stress.” 

llary chemicals at each location and ensuring 

Vistra recognizes the value 

that  all  product  procured  is  utilized.  Wastes 

of  water  resources  and  is 

such as metals, universal waste, and used oils 

continuously  working  to 

are recycled to the extent feasible at an avera-

refine our water management strategies.

ge rate of 99%. All waste generated at each fa-

cility is appropriately collected, contained, and 

Vistra is a key player in helping to manage na-

transferred  to  off-site  facilities  in  accordance 

tional  water  resources,  providing  expertise  on 

with all local and federal regulations.

several  official  regional  and  statewide  water 

planning  and  conservation  groups  or  commi-

ttees.  Each  year,  we  report  our  water  use  and 

COAL ASH BYPRODUCT 
Vistra  recycles  more  than  60%  of  ash  bypro-

conservation  activities  in  our  responses  to  va-

ducts  from  our  coal  generation.  That  equa-

rious states’ Water Survey/Inventory Programs, 

tes  to  over  3  million  tons  of  coal  combustion 

and  we  carefully  monitor  the  quality  and  im-

byproducts  beneficially  reused  in  products, 

pact of any water we return to the waterways.

including  recycling  of  fly  ash,  bottom  ash, 

and  gypsum  products.  Reuse  of  combustion 

Vistra  has  five  power  plants  in  areas  identi-

byproducts, which resulted in over $75 million 

fied as “high stress” or “extremely high stress,” 

in  revenue  for  Vistra,  is  our  preferred  method 

though  many  of  our  plants  are  geographica-

of  disposal  when  economically  viable.  The 

lly  situated  in  an  area  of  ample  water  supply. 

beneficial use of coal ash also reduces green-

Across all of our power plants, Vistra practices 

house  gases.  For  example,  for  each  ton  of  fly 

good stewardship and works to use water effi-

ash  used  in  place  of  traditional  cement,  a  re-

ciently. Where appropriate, we have built large 

duction of slightly less than one ton of carbon 

reservoirs to capture water when it is plentiful, 

dioxide  is  achieved — the  equivalent  of  about 

allowing it to be reused and recycled repeated-

two  months  of  emissions  from  an  automo-

ly. When feasible, we find ways to recycle water 

bile.  As  required  for  compliance  with  the  U.S. 

and to reuse water from one system to another 

EPA  standards,  information  on  our  coal  com-

system  to  reduce  our  use  of  freshwater.  We 

bustion residual impoundments can be found 

also reclaim other types of wastewaters for our 

on Luminant’s website. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report55

<< Table of Contents

NUCLEAR WASTE 
As  a  nuclear  power  plant  operator  in  the  U.S., 

waste,  we  ship  waste  off-site  for  disposal  to  li-

mit  our  inventory.  Since  2018,  the  Comanche 

nuclear  safety  is  a  fundamental  element  of 

Peak plant has shipped all of its waste to Waste 

our operating license. We manage our nuclear 

Control  Specialists,  a  qualified  disposal  facility 

wastes,  both  low-level  radioactive  waste  and 

in Andrews, Texas.  

spent nuclear fuel, safely, securely, and respon-

sibly  in  accordance  with  all  state  and  federal 

Spent nuclear fuel (SNF) is stored on-site at all 

regulations. The health and safety of our com-

U.S. nuclear facilities despite the Nuclear Waste 

munities, our employees, and the environment 

Policy Act (NWPA) of 1982 requiring the gover-

are of high priority to our company.

nment to provide a facility to permanently sto-

re nuclear fuel. The DOE developed the site at 

The  majority  of  the  radioactive  waste  genera-

Yucca Mountain in Nevada specifically for this 

ted by nuclear power plants is low radioactivity 

purpose, but budget and political conflict have 

material that is processed into a solid state be-

not  allowed  the  facility  to  be  utilized  to  store 

fore being placed in specially designed, robust 

SNF to date. Comanche Peak safely stores SNF 

containers  for  storage  and  disposal.  Low-level 

from  our  nuclear  generating  facility  on  site  in 

radioactive  waste,  classified  as  Class  A  Waste, 

storage pools and dry cask long-term storage 

includes  dry  materials  such  as  protective  clo-

facilities. Comanche Peak has enough capacity 

thing,  some  ion  exchange  resins  used  in  wa-

to  safely  store  our  SNF  through  the  extended 

ter processing, and equipment such as filters, 

life of our plant through decommissioning.   

tools, and rags that become radioactive mate-

rial during normal plant operations. More than 

90%  of  the  low-level  waste  generated  at  our 

OTHER HAZARDOUS WASTE 
With  the  exception  of  nuclear  waste,  the 

nuclear station is designated as Class A waste. 

amount  of  hazardous  waste  generated  at  our 

power  plants  is  minimal  and  consists  only  of 

Higher  radioactive  material  content  waste, 

ancillary  wastes  that  are  not  part  of  normal 

classified as Class B and C wastes, account for 

operations but are generated from plant outa-

~10% of the average 9,000 cubic feet of waste 

ges or cleaning activities. Vistra maintains pro-

generated at our two nuclear units. Class B and 

cedures at each facility for the management of 

C wastes include items such as irradiated core 

hazardous  waste,  provides  annual  training  on 

components,  reactor  coolant  filters,  and  hi-

the procedures, and tracks all hazardous waste 

gher-level ion exchange resins. 

in compliance with federal regulation. All was-

While  we  do  have  adequate  storage  capacity 

disposed  of  in  approved  landfills,  recycled,  or 

on-site for a significant amount of radioactive 

beneficially reused, as appropriate.

te generated is properly captured, stored, and 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report56
56

<< Table of Contents

Biodiversity

Vistra  is  committed  to  minimizing  the  nega-

projects  are  built  on  existing  brownfield  sites, 

tive  impacts  of  our  operations  as  well  as  to 

whereas  others  are  built  on  greenfield  sites, 

maintaining  and  enhancing  the  biodiversity 

which  can  similarly  influence  the  type  of  EIA 

on our land. Vistra seeks not to create or alter 

that is performed. Vistra ensures that all of our 

any current land use. In Texas, Vistra works with 

projects meet and exceed all federal, state, and 

external  partners  such  as  the  Texas  Railroad 

local permitting requirements. 

Commission,  Luminant’s  Environmental  Re-

LAND RECLAMATION
Since  mining  began  more  than  50  years  ago, 

Luminant,  the  generation  and  mining  busi-

ness of Vistra,  has reclaimed more than 86,000 

acres of land for use as pastures, forests, wildli-

fe habitat, and water resources. The company 

has already secured reclamation bond liability 

releases  on  over  45,000  acres,  demonstrating 

that it meets or exceeds pre-mine standards.

Luminant’s  mine 

land  reforestation  efforts 

continue  to  set  the 

industry  standard  as 

exemplified  by  the  2020  American  Tree  Farm 

System  recertification  of  over  30,700  acres  of 

Southern Yellow Pine at the company’s opera-

tions in Rusk and Panola Counties in Texas. As 

a  Certified  Tree  Farmer,  Luminant  is  recogni-

zed as having met American Tree Farm System 

Standards of Sustainability in managing its fo-

restland  and  as  an  ambassador  for  woodland 

stewardship. The Federal Office of Surface Mi-

ning has indicated that Luminant plants more 

Texan by Nature (TxN), a Texas-led 
conservation non-profit founded 
by former First Lady Laura Bush, 
has recognized Vistra in the Texan 
by Nature 20. The annual list ranks 
companies with Texas operations 
that have stated a dedication to 
conservation, demonstrated com-
mitment to conservation via invest-
ment and volunteerism, measure-
ment and reporting of spending 
and impact on conservation efforts, 
and employee engagement.

Above: reclamation at the Mon-
ticello site includes 2,438 acres 
of post-mine land use, including  
pastureland, forestry, fish and  
wildlife habitat, and developed 
water resources.  

search Program, and the Texas Parks and Wild-

trees  annually  than  any  mining  company  in 

life Department to ensure proper assessment 

the U.S.

and mapping for biodiversity. To date, we have 

been able to avoid any biodiversity mitigation 

We have created or enhanced more than 7,000 

by planning ahead.

ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  
ASSESSMENTS
As  part  of  the  development  of  our  renewable 

acres of wetlands, ponds, and stream channels 

on  our  restored  lands,  dramatically  increasing 

water  resources  to  benefit  wildlife  and  lives-

tock. Luminant has received over 90 awards for 

reclamation excellence, including an unprece-

and  energy  storage  facilities,  Vistra  will  con-

dented five Director’s Awards, the highest ho-

duct environmental impact assessments (EIA), 

nor from the U.S. Department of the Interior’s 

geotechnical  studies,  and/or  habitat  and  spe-

Office of Surface Mining. In 2017, Luminant was 

cies  studies  on  a  project  by  project  basis  and 

recognized by the Stephen F. Austin State Uni-

as required by any discrete locale. For example, 

versity Board of Regents for nearly 50 years of 

projects in California will require a different EIA 

commitment to environmental education.

than  those  in  Texas  or  New  England.  Some 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability ReportAppendix

SASB TABLE

GRI INDEX

POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS REPORT

58

<< Table of Contents

2020 SASB STANDARDS TABLE

TOPIC

SASB CODE

ACCOUNTING METRIC

2020 DISCLOSURE

(1) Gross global scope 1 emissions

94,290,023 metric tons of CO2e 
Emissions are equity adjusted for partial ownership of certain power plants 
consistent with equity share methodologies as described in GHG Protocol: 
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.

IF-EU-110a.1

(2) Percentage covered under emis-
sions-limiting regulations

8%

(3) Percentage covered under  
emissions-reporting regulations

99.93% 
All of Vistra’s power plant facilities report under the EPA mandatory re-
porting program with the exception of eight sites in 2020 whose emissions 
were insignificant. 

Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Energy 
Resource Planning

IF-EU-110a.3

Discussion of long-term and short-
term strategy or plan to manage 
Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduc-
tion targets, and an analysis of perfor-
mance against those targets

Vistra accelerated its emission reductions targets in September of 2020. 
Vistra’s goal is to achieve a 60% reduction in CO2e emissions by 2030, as 
compared to a 2010 baseline, and net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, 
assuming necessary advancements in technology and supportive market 
constructs and public policy. We expect progress towards these goals will 
include incremental thermal asset retirements, continued investment in 
solar and battery energy storage, and the monitoring and potential de-
ployment of new technologies. As of Dec. 31, 2020, Vistra reduced its CO2e 
emissions by 45.4% compared to a 2010 baseline—achieving nearly 76% of 
Vistra’s 2030 emissions reduction goal.

(1) Number of customers served in 
markets subject to renewable portfo-
lio standards (RPS)

IF-EU-110a.4

(2) Percentage fulfillment of RPS 

target by market

Vistra operates in retail electric markets that are competitive, allowing the 
customer to choose the retail electric provider and plan for their electricity 
needs. Vistra retail offers numerous renewable product offerings if the cus-
tomer desires to purchase a renewable electricity plan. As of Dec. 31, 2020, 
of Vistra’s ~4.3 million customers, 100% of them are in states that have an 
RPS in place. 

Air Quality 

IF-EU-120a.1

Air emissions of the following pollut-
ants:  (1) NOx (excluding N2O), 2) SOx, 
(3) particulate matter (PM10), (4) lead 
(Pb), and (5) mercury (Hg); percent-
age of each in or near areas of dense 
population

Water Management

IF-EU-140a.1

(1) Total water withdrawn, percentage 
in regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress

Pollutant

Emissions 
(metric tons)

% in or near areas  
of dense populations

NOX

SOX

PM10

Pb

Hg

1 Includes N2O

46,8101

98,612

5,054

0.5

0.38

76%

80%

57%

74%

59%

Water Source

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

2020 Total Water Withdrawn

Total (MegaLiters)

8,834 

12,046,811

332,908 

114,314 

0 

12,502,867 

Vistra operates five power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or 
“Extremely High Stress.” These five plants represent 0.05% of total water 
withdrawn. See SASB disclosure IF-EU-140a.3 for further discussion. 

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
59

<< Table of Contents

TOPIC

SASB CODE

ACCOUNTING METRIC

2020 DISCLOSURE

(2) Total water consumed, percentage 
in regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress

Water Source

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

2020 Total Water Consumed

Total (MegaLiters)

                       4,538 

                   145,451 

                           170    

                     30,177 

                            0 

                   180,336 

Substantially all (98%) of our water withdrawn is not consumed, rather it is 
returned to its source or recycled. 

Vistra operates five power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or “Ex-
tremely High Stress.” These five plants represent 3.8% of water consumed. 
See SASB disclosure IF-EU-140a.3 for further discussion.

IF-EU-140a.2

Number of incidents of non-compli-
ance associated with water quantity 
and/or quality permits, standards, and 
regulations

No material fines or violations in 2020. 

Water Management 
(continued)

IF-EU-140a.3

Description of water management 
risks and discussion of strategies and 
practices to mitigate those risks

Water is a limited, expensive, and shared resource that is essential to Vistra’s 
power plant operations. Producing electricity utilizes water in several key 
functions such as producing steam, condensing steam, cooling equipment, 
pollution control equipment and in some circumstances, boiler make-up, 
potable water, cleaning and other uses. Therefore, water conservation is a 
primary concern at each of our generating facilities, especially those in high 
water stress areas. The risk and management of water is reviewed as part 
of Vistra’s corporate risk management process, along with other environ-
mental and climate-related risks. Further, water scracity from droughts was 
reveiwed as part of Vistra’s climate scenario analysis among various climate 
projections over the next 30 years. 

Though many of our power plants are geographically situated in an area of 
ample water supply, Vistra practices environmental stewardship and works 
to efficiently use water at all locations. Each facility manages its daily water 
withrdrawl, consumption, and discharge in accordance with local, state and 
federal permits and regulations that control water use and effluent quality. 
Where appropriate, we have built large reservoirs to capture water when it is 
plentiful, allowing it to be reused/recycled repeatedly. When feasible, we find 
ways to recycle water, to reuse water from one system to another system to 
reduce our use of freshwater, and to reclaim other types of wastewaters. In 
fact, Vistra power plants consume less than 2% of water withdrawn.

Vistra has five efficient natural gas fueled power plants in areas identified as 
“High Stress” or “Extremely High Stress” in Texas. They are located in regions 
of the state that are either typically arid, historically susceptible to drought, 
and/or experiencing higher electricity demands due to significant business 
development and population growth in the state. Each of these highly 
efficient natural gas plants utilize low water demand and have their own 
site-specific conservation measures: Two have extremely low water demand, 
one operates as a zero discharge facility, another uses reclaimed water as its 
primary source, and the last one utilizes low quality water with significant 
treatment, is able to recycle extensively, and then discharges to a facility that 
continues to recycle the same water.   

Coal Ash Management

IF-EU-150a.1

IF-EU-150a.2

Amount of coal combustion residuals 
(CCR) generated (metric tons)

4,787,354

Percentage recycled (metric tons)

64.3%

Total number of coal combustion 
residual (CCR) impoundments, 
broken down by hazard potential 
classification and structural integrity 
assessment

Vistra has a total of 30 impoundments classified as follows by hazard po-
tential classification: 8 Low, 8 High and 14 Significant. Vistra complies with 
the US EPA Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) requirements and reports 
are publicly available on Luminant’s website.

(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)

0.61

(2) Fatality rate

IF-EU-320a.1

(3) Near miss rate

0

4.45

Workforce Health  
& Safety

All rates are calculated by multiplying the events by 200,000 and dividing 
by actual worked hours. Near Miss Events are defined by Vistra to be an  
unplanned event that did not result in any injury, illness or property dam-
age. The near miss rate was calculated from 248 near miss events for 2020.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report60

<< Table of Contents

TOPIC

SASB CODE

ACCOUNTING METRIC

2020 DISCLOSURE

Nuclear Safety  
& Emergency  
Management

IF-EU-540a.1

Total number of nuclear power units, 
broken down by U.S. Nuclear Regula-
tory Commission (NRC) Action Matrix 
Column

Reactor Unit

Action Matrix Column 

Comanche Peak 1

Licensee Response

Comanche Peak 2

Licensee Response

This information is available on the NRC’s website here. 

IF-EU-540a.2

Description of efforts to manage 
nuclear safety and emergency pre-
paredness

Safety is Vistra’s top priority. As a commercial nuclear plant operator, we are 
licensed by the US NRC. We must comply and follow NRC regulations and 
programs regarding nuclear operations including their safety culture prin-
ciples. Vistra’s power plant, Comanche Peak, publishes its own emergency 
information website for the public. In addition, oversight by the Nuclear 
Oversight Advisory Board (NOAB) ensures routine, periodic independent 
oversight of nuclear plant performance, including safety metrics.

Number of residential customers 
served

IF-EU-000.A

Number of commercial customers 
served

Vistra serves 4,334,000 retail customers as of December 31, 2020. 

Number of industrial customers 
served

Total electricity delivered to residential 
customers

Total electricity delivered to commer-
cial customers

Total electricity delivered to industrial 
customers

Total electricity delivered to all other 
retail customers

Percentage of wholesale customers

IF-EU-000.B

IF-EU-000.D

Total electricity generated, percentage 
of electricity generated by major en-
ergy source, percentage in regulated 
markets

Activity Metric

Vistra delivered 90,349 GWh of power to it is retail electric customers.

2020 Total Electricity Generated

Fuel 

MWh

% of Total

Coal

Gas

     55,983,691 

   96,343,812 

Nuclear

     19,480,010 

Oil

Solar

Total

              4,177 

          432,048 

   172,243,738 

32.5%

55.9%

11.3%

0.0%

0.3%

0% of electricity is generated in regulated markets.

IF-EU-000.E

Total wholesale electricity purchased

3,528 GWh with over 70% attributed to wind purchases.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
61

<< Table of Contents

2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

GRI 102: General Disclosures

102-1

102-2

102-3

Name of the organization

Vistra Corp.

Activities, brands, products, and services

2020 Annual Report

Location of headquarters

Irving, Texas, USA

102-4

Location of operations

The company brings its products and services to market in 20 states and the 
District of Columbia, including six of the seven competitive markets in the U.S. 
and markets in Canada and Japan.

102-5

102-6

102-7

Ownership and legal form

Vistra is an investor-owned corporation. Common shares trade on the New 
York Stock Exchange under the symbol “VST”.

Markets served

2020 Annual Report

Scale of the organization

2020 Annual Report

102-8

Information on employees and other workers

As of December 31, 2020, Vistra had approximately 5,365 full-time employees. 
See Disclosure 405-1

102-9

102-10

102-11

102-12

102-13

102-14

102-16

Supply chain

https://www.vistracorp.com/supply-chain/

Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chain

2020 Annual Report

Precautionary Principle or approach

2020 Annual Report

External initiatives

Referenced throughout our Sustainability Report

Membership of associations 

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

Statement from senior decision-maker

Sustainability Report: CEO's Message

Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior 

Sustainability Report: Core Principles, CPSO Letter 
Vistra's Code of Conduct

102-18

Governance structure 

Sustainability Report: ESG Governance Framwork 
https://www.vistracorp.com/corporate-governance/ 
2021 Proxy Statement

102-40

List of stakeholder groups 

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

102-41

Collective bargaining agreements

As of December 31, 2020, ~30% of Vistra employees were under collective 
bargaining agreements.

102-42

102-43

Identifying and selecting stakeholders 

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

Approach to stakeholder engagement

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

102-44

Key topics and concerns raised

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

102-45

102-46

102-47

Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements 

2020 Annual Report

Defining report content and topic Boundaries 

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

List of material topics 

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

102-48

Restatements of information

No material restatements.

102-49

Changes in reporting 

Vistra is adding Tax, Public Policy, and Customer Privacy as material topics for 
this reporting period.

102-50

102-51

102-52

Reporting period 

January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020

Date of most recent previous report 

June 2020

Reporting cycle

Annual

102-53

Contact point for questions regarding the report 

Sustainability Report: CPSO Letter

102-54

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
Standards

Sustainability Report: Our Approach to Sustainability

102-55

GRI content index

Sustainability Report: GRI Index

102-56

External assurance 

Deloitte & Touche LLP performed a review of management's assertion over 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions presented in the company’s Statement of 
GHG Emissions for the year ended December 31, 2020. The full report can be 
found online.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
62

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

Management Approach

2020 Annual Report

Direct economic value generated and distrib-
uted

2020 Annual Report

2, 5, 7, 8, 9

Financial implications and other risks and oppor-
tunities due to climate change

2020 Annual Report 
Sustainability Report: ESG Governance Framework- Risk Management

10

103-1,2,3

201-1

201-2

GRI 207: Tax

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

2020 Annual Report

207-1

Approach to Tax

207-2

Tax governance, control,  
and risk management

Vistra operates in a complex environment, across many jurisdictions. Our busi-
nesses  are  subject  to  federal,  state  and  local  taxation  regimes  in  the  United 
States,  and,  on  a  smaller  scale,  internationally.  Conducting  our  daily  activities 
within  the  laws,  regulations  and  rules  is  not  an  option  we  choose,  but  rath-
er the way we do business that is ingrained in our culture. Our tax function is 
built  in  the  bedrock  of  this  principle,  as  we  are  committed  to  ensuring  tax  is-
sues  are  handled  with  integrity  and  compliance  in  all  jurisdictions  we  serve.   
Vistra is committed to providing excellence in our operations, while maintaining 
an efficient cost structure.  Tax can be a very large recurring expense to any busi-
ness operation. Vistra’s Tax department ensures Vistra operates with an efficient 
tax structure and regularly implements process and operating improvements to 
ensure our cost structure is optimized. Vistra Tax evaluates many opportunities 
to validly reduce its taxes, for example, by claiming available tax credits or elim-
inating entities in the structure that are no longer being used by the business 
operations, thereby reducing compliance costs. In evaluating these opportuni-
ties,  however,  Vistra  Tax  is  anchored  by  our  approach  to  taking  highly  certain 
tax positions.  

There are times when Vistra Tax records uncertain tax positions. These situations 
are largely limited to occasions where (i) Vistra acquires a business that has such 
positions recorded on their books, so they are inherited positions, or (ii) in rare 
circumstances, guidance from regulators is at odds with the laws issued by Con-
gress. In all cases, where an uncertain tax position may exist, it is recorded and 
disclosed  as  required  under  the  Internal  Revenue  Code  and  GAAP  guidelines. 
We take a balanced approach towards audit of any of our tax positions. Our deal-
ings with federal, state and local auditors, where applicable, are honest, produc-
tive and forthright, while also striving to achieve the full value of our enterprise 
for our investors.

Similarly, we are very aware that the taxes we pay to do business in various ju-
risdictions  has  a  direct  impact  on  the  communities  we  serve.  To  that  end,  at 
times, we may pay more than our fair share because it is the right thing to do 
in  that  particular  community.  Examples  of  this  can  be  found  in  various  prop-
erty  tax  jurisdictions,  where  certain  of  our  businesses  have  been  discontin-
ued.  Many  times,  we  work  with  the  local  jurisdictions  to  step-down  the  prop-
erty tax payments over time and provide other community support to provide 
such  communities  the  time  needed  to  supplement  the  lost  tax  revenue. 
As explained above, Vistra is guided by the principle of integrity. Tax operations 
are no different.  Unethical or unlawful behavior is absolutely not tolerated. Em-
ployees  exhibiting  such  behaviors  are  terminated  immediately.  Vistra’s  tax  de-
partment is reminded regularly by the general tax counsel of our guiding prin-
ciples  when  evaluating  tax  positions,  reporting  and  preparing  tax  filings,  and 
when reviewing public disclosures.

The reporting structure of the Vistra Tax department ensures that our goals and 
principles are held to the highest standards. Several backstops provide this cer-
tainty.  First, within the department you will find a diverse group of highly expe-
rienced tax professionals from a wide variety of backgrounds, which we believe 
promotes  productivity,  creativity,  and  our  ability  to  attract  and  retain  the  best 
tax talent.  Second, Vistra’s Tax department reports to the chief financial officer, 
who  hosts  meetings  across  the  finance  department  at  least  weekly  to  ensure 
all functional business groups are operating cohesively and transparently. Third, 
our general tax counsel is a member of the Compliance Leadership Team, orga-
nized by Vistra’s general counsel and chief compliance officer. The Compliance 
Leadership Team also meets regularly to discuss audit metrics throughout Vis-
tra,  which  in  turn  are  reported  to  and  reviewed  by  the  Audit  Committee.  Our 
general tax counsel is also a member of Vistra’s Management Committee, which 
as discussed above, provides an opportunity for significant tax issues to be dis-
cussed  and  strategized  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  company.  Additionally,  tax 
expenses are subject to review and approval by the Commitments Committee, 
also described above. This ensures that no tax expense/payment outside of the 
approved long-range plan can be submitted without discussion and approval by 
the highest officers of our company. Finally, Vistra’s general tax counsel presents 
all  major  tax  transactions  and  standard  tax  metrics  to  the  board’s  Audit  Com-
mittee quarterly.

1, 8, 10, 
16, 17

1, 8, 10, 
16, 17

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
63

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Environmental Principles Policy

302-1

Energy consumption within the organization

438,224,527 MWh 
Vistra's total 2020 energy consumption represents the fuel and electricity 
consumed at its power plants and the electricity consumed at its corporate of-
fices. All fuel was converted to MWh using the U.S. EIA conversion calculators.

7, 8, 12, 13

302-3

Energy intensity

2.54 
Calculated using the total energy consumption from disclosure 302-1 divided 
by the total MWh of electricity generated for 2020.

302-4

Reduction of energy consumption

Sustainability Report: Facilities

GRI 303: Water and Effluents

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Water is a limited, expensive, and shared resource that is essential to Vistra’s 
power plant operations. Producing electricity utilizes water in several key 
functions such as producing steam, condensing steam, cooling equipment, 
pollution control equipment and in some circumstances, boiler make-up, 
potable water, cleaning and other uses. Therefore, water conservation is a 
primary concern at each of our generating facilities, especially those in high 
water stress areas. The risk and management of water is reviewed as part of 
Vistra's corporate risk management process, along with other environmental 
and climate-related risks. Further, water scracity from droughts was reveiwed 
as part of Vistra's climate scenario analysis among various climate projections 
over the next 30 years. 

303-1

Interactions with water as a shared resource 

Sustainability Report: Water

303-2

Management of water discharge-related 
impacts

All operating power plants in the Vistra fleet are governed by local, state, 
and federal permits that control water use and effluent quality. Our facilities 
meet water quality discharge limitations and sample and report per permit 
requirements. 

303-3

Water withdrawal 

2020 Total Water Withdrawn

Water Source 

Total (MegaLiters)

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

8,834

12,046,811

332,908

114,314

-

12,502,867 

Vistra operates 5 power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or “Extreme-
ly High Stress”. These 5 plants represent 0.05% of total water withdrawn. 

7, 8, 12, 13

7, 8, 12, 13

6, 12

6, 12, 14

6, 12

U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) KEY

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
64

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

303-4

Water discharge   

303-5

Water consumption 

2020 Total Water Discharged

Water Source 

Total (MegaLiters)

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

3

11,905,654

332,738

84,136

-

12,322,531

Vistra operates 5 power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or  
“Extremely High Stress”. These 5 plants do not discharge water. 

2020 Total Water Consumed

Water Source 

Total (MegaLiters)

Groundwater

Surface Water

Sea Water

Third Party

Produced

Total

4,538

145,451

170

30,177

-

180,336

Vistra operates 5 power plants in areas identified as “High Stress” or  
“Extremely High Stress”. These 5 plants represent 3.8% of water consumed.

GRI 305: Emissions

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Emissions 
Environmental Principles Policy

305-1

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

94,290,023 metric tons of CO2e

305-2

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

333,770 metric tons of CO2e 
Reported Scope 2 emissions are location-based.

305-3

Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

305-4

GHG emissions intensity

2,724,789 metric tons of CO2e 
Scope 3 emissions represent the associated emissions from the Use of Sold 
Products, as categorized by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain Standard.

0.547 
Calculated using Scope 1 emissions as reported in disclosure 305-1 divided by 
total MWh of electricity generated in 2020.

305-5

305-7

GRI 306: Waste

Reduction of GHG emissions

Sustainability Report: Emissions

Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 
other significant air emissions

Sustainability Report: Emissions 
2020 SASB Table

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Environmental Principles Policy

6, 12, 14

6, 12

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

13, 14, 15

13, 14, 15

3, 12, 13, 
14, 15

306-1

Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impacts

Sustainability Report: Waste Management

3, 6, 11, 12

306-2

Management of significant waste-related 
impacts

Vistra's facilities minimize the amount of waste produced at each of our loca-
tions. This includes limiting the amount of inventory of ancillary chemicals at 
each location and ensuring that all product is used.  Wastes such as metals, uni-
versal waste, and used oils are recycled to the extent feasible and average 99%. 
As noted in the "Coal Ash Byproduct" section of our report, the company takes 
great  efforts  to  sell  our  ash  product  into  the  market  so  it  can  be  beneficially 
reused in accordance with governing laws and regulations for products such 
as road bed material, cement, roof shingles, and other marketed products.  All 
waste generated at each site is appropriately collected, contained, and trans-
ferred to off-site facilities in accordance with all local and federal regulations.

3, 6, 11, 12

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

306-3

Waste Generated

(metric tons)

Generated

Recycled

3, 6, 11, 12

2020 Waste

306-4

Waste diverted from disposal

306-5

Waste directed to disposal

GRI 307: Environmental Compliance

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Municple Solid Waste

Hazardous Waste

Used Oil

Universal Waste

Metal

E-Waste

 1,264 

 93 

 580 

 49 

 4,564 

 9 

 28 

 3 

 570 

 49 

 4,563 

 2 

3, 6, 11, 12

A total of ~7,000 metric tons of waste was sent for disposal in 2020 from our 
power  plants.  Due  to  the  insignifcant  quanties  of  waste  generated,  the  final 
disposition of this waste is not centrally tracked at this time.  

3, 6, 11, 12

Sustainability Report: Environmental Compliance 
Environmental Principles Policy

307-1

Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations

Sustainability Report: Environmental Compliance

13, 16

GRI 401: Employment

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: At the Workplace

401-1

New employee hires and employee turnover

401-2

Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees

GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

403-1

Occupational health and safety management 
system

Total Employees as of 
12/31/20

Voluntary Turnover Rate1

Overall Turnover 
Rate1

5,365

3.9%

5.39%

5, 8, 10

1  2020 turnover rates exclude retirements and M&A severances

Sustainability Report: Employee Benefits

3, 5, 8

Sustainability Report: Safety

Vistra is committed to providing safe and reliable power to consumers. We op-
erate our facilities to the highest safety standards and focus on ensuring our 
employees are putting up their best defenses in order to fail safely. Our safe-
ty  philosophy  revolves  around  human  performance  and  developing  systems 
where error is accounted for so that failure does not result in serious injuries. 
We carry out our safety mission by incorporating our core principles.  

Our safety program focuses on three aspects: our people, our processes, and 
our procedures. These are divided up into three processes using Human Per-
formance Initiatives, Behavior Based Safety programs, and applying the OSHA 
Voluntary Protection Program framework for a safety management system. 

Each Vistra location abides by corporate led safety procedures that meet OSHA 
requirements.  Facilities are required to train on all procedures and records are 
kept  in  a  central  learning  management  system.  All  employees  and  manage-
ment  are  engaged  in  the  safety  program,  performing  audits  and  observing 
work. Internal and external audits are performed as part of normal business to 
verify compliance with internal and OSHA procedures and guidance. 

403-2

Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigation

Sustainability Report: Centers of Excellence 

403-4

Worker participation, consultation, and commu-
nication on occupational health and safety

Vistra  conducts  a  team  approach  to  safety  where  everyone  is  involved  and 
engaged  in  the  safety  process.  All  managers  are  required  to  participate  in 
safety  engagements  with  work  staff  to  enable  constant  communication 
and  interaction.  The  corporate  safety  team  develops  and  distributes  month-
ly  safety  information  to  all  operations  staff  and  regularly  posts  information 
on  the  intranet.  Safety  training  is  accomplished  for  the  entire  organization 
through  web  based  systems  to  communication  on  the  company's  safe-
ty  management  system,  injury  reporting  and  emergency  preparedness.  

Each facility holds regular safety meetings with employees and management 
representatives. The safety committee is responsible for reviewing new proce-
dures, safety observations made at their specific location to determine correc-
tive  actions,  and  lessons  learned  from  incidents  that  have  occurred  at  other 
sites. The safety committees are also tasked with managing emergency proce-
dures for each location. 

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
 
66

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

403-5

403-6

403-8

403-9

Worker training on occupational health and 
safety

Sustainability Report: Safety Training

Promotion of worker health

Sustainability Report: Wellness

Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management system 

All Vistra employees are covered by our safety program: Best Defense.

Work-related injuries

Sustainability Report: Safety Statistics

GRI 404: Training and Education

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Training and Development

404-1

404-2

404-3

Average hours of training per year per employee

Sustainability Report: Training and Development

Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs

Sustainability Report: Training and Development

Percentage of employees receiving regular per-
formance and career development reviews

100% of full-time employees receive an annual performance review. 
Sustainability Report: Performance Review Program

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

UN SDG

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8

3, 8, 16

4, 8, 10

4, 5, 8

5, 8, 10

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Gender Distribution by Business Unit

Corporate

Generation

Male

Female

62.82%

37.18%

92.92%

7.08%

Retail

43.73%

56.27%

Overall

77.45%

22.55%

Overall Gender Distribution by Employee Category

Non-Exempt

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

Male

83.99%

64.94%

Female

16.01%

35.06%

87.27%

12.73%

72.02%

80.00%

78.65%

27.98%

20.00%

21.35%

Corporate Gender Distribution by Employee Category

5, 8

Non-Exempt

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

Male

44.23%

60.22%

Female

55.77%

39.78%

66.67%

33.33%

65.12%

34.88%

72.22%

27.78%

76.34%

23.66%

Retail Gender Distribution by Employee Category

Non-Exempt

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

Male

24.26%

48.00%

Female

75.74%

52.00%

50.77%

49.23%

76.92%

23.08%

64.71%

35.29%

87.50%

12.50%

Generation Gender Distribution by Employee Category

Non-
Exempt

Bargaining 
Unit

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

Male

93.98%

95.20%

87.95%

93.91%

Female

6.02%

4.80%

12.05%

6.09%

88.11%

11.89%

93.75%

50.00%

6.25%

50.00%

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
67

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

Ethnicity Distribution by Business Unit

Corporate

Generation

American Indian

Asian

Black

Hawaiian or Pacific 
Islander

Hispanic

Two or More Races

Unknown

White

0.52%

17.13%

11.01%

0.10%

9.97%

2.18%

1.97%

57.11%

0.45%

0.76%

6.32%

0.00%

6.11%

0.64%

0.33%

85.39%

Retail

0.45%

5.91%

22.27%

0.18%

21.55%

1.45%

4.45%

43.73%

Overall

0.47%

4.75%

10.43%

0.06%

9.96%

1.08%

1.47%

71.79%

Overall Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Non-Exempt

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

0.46%

0.69%

12.19%

0.48%

4.78%

12.00%

0.23%

0.46%

6.93%

0.20%

6.97%

4.30%

0.82%

6.94%

4.08%

0.78%

3.53%

1.56%

0.00%

0.02%

0.23%

0.20%

0.00%

0.00%

American 
Indian

Asian

Black

Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
Islander

Hispanic

10.20%

10.77%

7.16%

Two or More 
Races

0.84%

Unknown

1.72%

1.13%

1.62%

0.69%

1.15%

7.99%

0.61%

1.23%

White

73.90%

69.20%

83.14%

78.48%

4.90%

1.63%

0.00%

81.63%

8.67%

0.78%

0.78%

83.89%

Corporate Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Non-Exempt

Indv. 
Contributor

0.00%

0.36%

1.92%

17.31%

21.88%

14.29%

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

0.00%

9.52%

4.76%

0.78%

17.05%

5.43%

1.59%

0.00%

12.70%

5.56%

3.57%

1.19%

0.00%

0.00%

4.76%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

5, 8

American 
Indian

Asian

Black

Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
Islander

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

8.33%

1.19%

1.19%

84.52%

VP+

16.67%

12.50%

16.67%

0.00%

41.67%

Hispanic

11.54%

10.67%

9.52%

Two or More 
Races

5.77%

Unknown

1.92%

2.17%

3.07%

White

61.54%

47.56%

0.00%

0.00%

71.43%

11.63%

0.78%

0.00%

64.34%

6.35%

2.38%

0.00%

71.43%

Retail Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Non-Exempt

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

0.00%

0.75%

0.00%

0.00%

1.18%

39.35%

9.14%

16.23%

0.00%

18.00%

7.69%

10.77%

0.00%

2.56%

2.56%

American 
Indian

Asian

Black

Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
Islander

0.00%

0.19%

0.00%

0.77%

0.00%

0.00%

Hispanic

34.02%

16.04%

32.00%

13.08%

5.13%

12.50%

Two or More 
Races

1.48%

Unknown

10.65%

1.87%

1.49%

2.00%

2.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

3.08%

0.00%

White

13.31%

54.29%

46.00%

64.62%

89.74%

Generation Ethnicity Distribution by Employee Category

Non-
Exempt

Bargaining 
Unit

Indv. 
Contributor

Supervisor

Manager

Director

VP+

0.54%

0.45%

0.45%

0.28%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.58%

7.95%

0.26%

9.54%

2.27%

2.73%

0.00%

5.54%

0.88%

0.00%

0.00%

2.50%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

6.56%

5.38%

7.73%

3.60%

3.08%

2.50%

6.25%

0.63%

0.36%

0.51%

0.19%

0.68%

0.55%

0.88%

1.25%

0.00%

0.00%

0.83%

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

83.39%

83.67%

86.14%

89.20%

95.15%

93.75%

93.75%

American 
Indian

Asian

Black

Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
Islander

Hispanic

Two or 
More Races

Unknown

White

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
68

<< Table of Contents

DISCLOSURE

DESCRIPTION

REFERENCE /SECTION

UN SDG

GRI 415: Public Policy

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Lobbying and Political Contributions Policy

415-1

Political Contributions

Sustainability Report: Political Contribution Report

GRI 418: Customer Privacy

103-1,2,3

Management Approach

Sustainability Report: Cybersecurity

418-1

Breach of customer prviacy and losses of  
customer data

Sustainability Report: Cybersecurity

16

16

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report 
69

<< Table of Contents

VISTRA CORP. TRADE GROUPS AND MEMBERSHIPS

As an integrated energy company, Vistra operates an innovative, customer-centric retail business 

and  a  generation  fleet  focused  on  safely,  reliably,  and  efficiently  generating  power  in  the  com-

munities we serve.  Vistra is not a political entity, but we live in a world influenced by politics and 

participating in the political process is imperative to the ongoing success of the company.  

As such, Vistra is a member of and participates in trade groups, associations, and other third-party 

organizations that may take positions on policy matters and may engage in lobbying activities on 

behalf of the members and constituents. The below list includes membership organizations and 

trade associations: (1) to which Vistra paid $50,000 or greater in membership dues in 2020; and (2) 

may have engaged in lobbying activities in 2020:

ORGANIZATION

ALLIANCE FOR RETAIL MARKETS

ASSOCIATION OF ELECTRIC COMPANIES OF TEXAS

BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE

ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION (EPSA)

ILLINOIS ENERGY ASSOCIATION

INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS OF NY

MAINERS FOR LOCAL POWER

NATIONAL MINING ASSOCIATION

NEW ENGLAND POWER GENERATORS ASSOCIATION

NUCLEAR ENERGY INSTITUTE

OHIO BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE

RETAIL ENERGY SUPPLY ASSOCIATION

TEXAS COMPETITIVE POWER ADVOCATES 

THE PJM POWER PROVIDERS GROUP (P3)

UTILITY SOLID WASTE ACTIVITIES GROUP

WESTERN POWER TRADING FORUM

2020 DUES OR 
PAYMENTS MADE

PORTION NON-
DEDUCTIBLE 
UNDER §162(e)(1)(B)1

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

69,750

350,000

200,000

499,300

80,064

64,800

508,323

77,075

106,900

1,176,347

100,000

110,093

50,000

104,000

122,956

65,401

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

262,500

50,000

74,895

36,000

3,240

508,323

15,415

10,690

15,953

22,500

686

11,000

10,400

1,230

65,401

Annually Vistra reviews all its memberships with trade groups, associations, and other third-party 

organizations to discern whether their positions are materially inconsistent with Vistra’s views. If 

Vistra determines that a group is taking a materially inconsistent position from the company’s 

views,  the  company  will  advocate  within  the  organization  to  seek  to  align  our  positions  and  if 

that is unsuccessful may withdraw from or otherwise disassociate from that organization. Vistra 

publishes a voluntary report of its memberships and dues of $50,000 or greater in its Sustaina-

bility Report. Vistra’s board of directors provides oversight as part of its annual review of Vistra’s 

Sustainability Report.

1) Vistra provides the portion of its membership dues or payments made that are non-deductible under IRS §162(e)(1)(B) at time of reporting. If that information is unknown at time of reporting 

then Vistra will update this report as that information is provided by its trade groups, associations, and other third-party organizations.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report70

<< Table of Contents

VISTRA CORP. CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS

Vistra values its right to participate in the political process, both as a legislative advocate and as 

a participant in the electoral process. Such participation is guided by our responsibility to always 

conduct our activities with honesty and integrity and in accordance with the laws, regulations and 

rules that govern such activities. Corporate political contributions are never made or given in anti-

cipation of or in return for action or inaction by a public official.  

Vistra’s 2020 corporate contributions made to 527 organizations are below.

ASSOCIATED REPUBLICANS OF TEXAS

DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION

DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION

DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE

LEGISLATIVE STUDY GROUP

REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION

REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION

REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP

Vistra’s 2020 corporate contributions made to 501(c)4s are below.

ALLIANCE FOR ENERGY CHOICE

AMERICANS FOR CARBON DIVIDENDS

CITIZENS AGAINST NUCLEAR BAILOUT

COALITION TO RESTORE PUBLIC TRUST

NEW JERSEY RATEPAYERS UNITED

TEXAS TAXPAYERS & RESEARCH ASSOC

ZERO EMISSION TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION

Vistra’s other 2020 corporate contributions are below.

ATTORNEY GENERAL ALLIANCE

CENTER FOR LEGISLATIVE ENERGY & ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH

ENERGY FORWARD

MEXICAN AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE CAUCUS

NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES FOUNDATION

STATE LEGISLATIVE LEADERS FOUNDATION

TEXAS CONSERVATIVE COALITION RESEARCH INSTITUTE

TEXAS HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS

TEXAS HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS

TEXAS LEGISLATIVE BLACK CAUCUS

VARIOUS ILLINOIS POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 1

VARIOUS MARYLAND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 2

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

10,000

50,000

100,000

55,000

15,000

50,000

100,000

80,000

46,000

500,000

129,000

295,000

62,666

5,000

10,000

50,000

6,000

108,262

25,000

12,500

47,500

20,000

15,000

15,000

10,000

183,379

13,350

Vistra publishes a voluntary report of its corporate political contributions in its Sustainability Re-
port. Vistra’s board of directors provides oversight as part of its annual review of Vistra’s Sustai-
nability Report.

1  Vistra  reports  all  Illinois  corporate  political  contributions  as  required  to  the  Illinois  State  Board  of  Elections  at  https://www.elections.il.gov/CampaignDisclosure/.  

Search by “Last or Only Name” contains “Vistra”.

2 Vistra reports all Maryland corporate political contributions as required to the Maryland State Board of Elections at https://campaignfinance.maryland.gov/, click on 

Disclosures, click on View Contributions / Loans.  Search “Vistra” as Contributor.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report71

<< Table of Contents

VISTRA CORP. POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES

Since  1978  our  Company  has  participated  fully  in  the  electoral  process  through  political  action 

committees (PACs). Through this process, we have helped frame the debate about issues impor-

tant to our company and industry. 

All of Vistra’s PACs are organized under applicable federal and state laws and are strictly voluntary 

associations of eligible employees. Funds raised by the PACs are used in a bipartisan manner to 

actively promote company objectives and long-term goals. The PACs support political candidates 

and organizations the employee members believe will contribute to developing broad support for 

company and industry positions. PACs contributions are never made or given in anticipation of or 

in return for action or inaction by a public official.

In deciding which candidates to support, the PACs consider many factors, including: 

 • similar views and/or supports issues, policies and regulations of importance to our companies and/or 

the industry,

 • placement in a leadership position or on a key committee of importance to the company and/or the 

industry,

 • consistency with Vistra’s core principles,
 • involvement in a competitive race, and
 • representation of a district with a company facility and/or many employees or customers.

 Vistra’s 2020 PAC contributions can be found below.

 • Vistra Energy Leaders PAC of Vistra Corp. – Federal 
 • Vistra Energy Leaders PAC of Vistra Corp. – Pennsylvania 
 • Vistra Energy Leaders PAC of Vistra Energy – Ohio

Vistra Energy Leaders PAC – Texas:   

https://www.ethics.state.tx.us/search/cf/AdvancedSearch.php

 • For Transaction Type select “Contributions”
 • For Years select “2020”
 • For Transaction Entity/Last Name enter “Vistra”

Vistra Energy Leaders PAC – California:   

http://dbsearch.sos.ca.gov/ContributorSearch.aspx

 • For Contributor Name enter “Vistra Energy”

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report72

<< Table of Contents

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The information presented herein includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation 

Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about 

the  industry  and  markets  in  which  Vistra  Corp.  (“Vistra”)  operates  and  beliefs  of  and  assumptions  made  by  Vistra’s  manage-

ment,  involve  risks  and  uncertainties,  which  are  difficult  to  predict  and  are  not  guarantees  of  future  performance,  that  could 

significantly  affect  the  financial  results  of  Vistra.  All  statements,  other  than  statements  of  historical  facts,  that  are  presented 

herein, or in response to questions or otherwise, that address activities, events or developments that may occur in the future, 

including  such  matters  as  activities  related  to  our  financial  or  operational  projections,  the  potential  impacts  of  the  COVID-19 

pandemic on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, projected synergy, value lever and net debt targets, 

capital allocation, capital expenditures, liquidity, projected Adjusted EBITDA to free cash flow conversion rate, dividend policy, 

business and sustainability strategy, competitive strengths, goals, future acquisitions or dispositions, development or operation 

of  power  generation  assets, market  and  industry  developments  and  the  growth  of  our  businesses  and  operations  (often,  but 

not always, through the use of words or phrases, or the negative variations of those words or other comparable words of a future 

or forward-looking nature, including, but not limited to: “intends,” “plans,” “will likely,” “unlikely,” “believe,” “confident”, “expect,” 

“seek,”  “anticipate,”  “estimate,”  “continue,”  “will,”  “shall,”  “should,”  “could,”  “may,”  “might,”  “predict,”  “project,”  “forecast,”  “target,” 

“potential,”  “goal,”  “objective,”  “guidance”  and  “outlook”),  are  forward-looking  statements.  Readers  are  cautioned  not  to  place 

undue  reliance  on  forward-looking  statements.  Although  Vistra  believes  that  in making  any  such  forward-looking  statement, 

Vistra’s expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any such forward-looking statement involves uncertainties and risks 

that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in or implied by any such forward-looking statement, including, 

but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions (including changes in interest rates) or changes 

in political conditions or federal or state laws and regulations; (ii) the ability of Vistra to execute upon its contemplated strategic, 

capital allocation, performance, and cost-saving initiatives and to successfully integrate acquired businesses; (iii) actions by credit 

ratings agencies; (iv) the severity, magnitude and duration of pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and the resulting 

effects on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; (v) the severity, magnitude and duration of extreme weath-

er events (including winter storm Uri), contingencies and uncertainties relating thereto, most of which are difficult to predict 

and many of which are beyond our control, and the resulting effects on our results of operations, financial condition and cash 

flows; and (vi) those additional risks and factors discussed in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Vistra 

from time to time, including the uncertainties and risks discussed in the sections entitled “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking 

Statements” in Vistra’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and any subsequently filed quarterly 

reports on Form 10-Q.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only at the date on which it is made, and except as may be required by law, Vistra will not 

undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is 

made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict 

all of them; nor can Vistra assess the impact of each such factor or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may 

cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.

Vistra Corp. 2020 Sustainability Report